Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6655-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
May 13, 1987
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =    NRs 22.30 a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           =  2.47 acres (ac)
1.50 bighas
1 million cubic meters (Mm3              =  810 acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
1 cubic meter per second (m /sec)        =  35.31 cubic food per second (cfs2
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)            =  0.028 cubic meters per second (mi/sec)
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (t)                         =  2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
a/ The exchange rate at the time of appraisal. However, because of the
differences between forecast foreign and local inflation rates, a
gradual devaluation of the Nepali Rupees against the US dollar has
been assumed as follows: US$1.0 = NRs 22.30 for 1986/87, NRs 22.50
for 1987/88, NRs 23.73 for 1988/89, NRs 24.56 for 1989/90 and
NRs 24.80 for and beyond 1990/91.



FOR OMCAL Use ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AADO            -   Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN            -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
ADO             -   Agricultural Development Officer
AX              -   Assistant Engineer
AG              -   Auditor General
AIC             -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
APH             -   Adjustable Proportional Module
CCA             -   Cultivable Command Area
CMC             -   Chatra Main Canal
D&C             -   Design and Construction Division
DC              -   Director General (DIHM and DOA)
DIHM            -   Department of Irrigationt Hydrology, and Meteorology
DOA             -   Department of Agriculture
EE              -   Executive Engineer
ERR             -   Economic Rate of Return
FCC             -   Financial Comptroller General
FSL             -   Full Supply Level
GOI             -   Government of India
HMGN            -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV             -   High-Yielding Variety
ICB             -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA             -   International Development Association
JDTC            -   Jute Development and Trading Corporation
JT              -   Junior Technician
JTA             -   Junior Technical Assistant
LCB             -   Local Competitive Bidding
LIB             -   Limited International Bidding
M               -   Million
M&E             -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA.            -   Ministry of Agriculture
MWR             -   Ministry of Water Resources
NEC             -   Nepal Eastern Canal
NFC             -   Nepal Food Corporation
O&M             -   Operation and Maintenance
PLAA            -   Panchayat-Level Agricultural Assistant
PM              -   Project Manager
PPAR            -   Project Performance Audit Report
RD              -   Revenue Department
REC             -   Rice Export Corporation
RiS             -   Rotational Water Supply
SA              -   Special Account
SCF             -   Standard Conversion Factor
SMIDB           -   Sunsari Morang Irrigation Development Board
SMIP            -   Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project
SMS             -   Subject Matter Specialist
SOB             -   Statement of Expenditure
T&V             -   Training and Visit System (Agricultural Extension)
NCAU            -   Water Charges Assessment Unit
WUG             -   Water User's Group
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
Distributary command                  -  The area taking off from the main canal
served by a distributary, typically in the
range of 5,000-7,000 ha in SMIP
Minor canal command                   -  An operational area, typically in the range
of 200-1,200 ha, served by a minor canal
taking off from a distributary
Chak                                  -  An operational area of 50-60 ha in the Stage I
area or of 20-35 ha in the Stage II area
Chak intake (turnout)                 -  A structure that delivers water from a minor
to a chak
Adjustable proportional module (APM) -  A device at the chak intake structure that
modulates flow to the chak with the parent
canal at full supply level
Watercourse                           -  A channel within the chak conveying water
to outlet structures at 3-5 ha sub-chaks
Sub-chak                              -  A 3-5 ha subdivision of the chak
Division box                          -  A simple gated structure on the whole
watercourse stream to 3-5 ha sub-chaks
Field channel                         -  Farmer-built channel within the sub-chak
that delivers water to the fields
Paddy                                 -  Unhulled rice
Panchayat                     I       -  Village-level administrative unit
Ward                                  -  An administrative subdivision of a panchayat
Sajha                                 -  Cooperative organization of farmers that
deals with the purchase of agricultural
inputs



NEPAL
LJNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers         Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:           SDR 31.2 million (US$ 40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Project           The main objectives of the project are to increase agricultural
Description:      production and farmer's income by introducing an equitable,
predictable, and reliable irrigation system in the Sunsari
Morang irrigation scheme. The proposed project is the second
phase of an IDA-supported program and would complete the
development of irrigation and drainage infrastructure over
about 26,450 ha (9,750 ha of Stage I and 16,700 ha of Stage II)
served by the Chatra Main Canal (CMC) in the Kosi Zone of the
Eastern Region of Nepal.  The project, which would be
implemented over seven years, would also provide for: further
improvements to CMC, including desilting facilities; training of
project staff; consulting services; funding for the incremental
staffing, operation and maintenance; and monitoring and
evaluation, and studies.
Possible risks that could affect the achievement of project
objectives include inadequate desiltation provisions, inadequate
water management, insufficient funding for O&M, and delays in
implementation. On the desiltation problems, HNGN would prefer
a nonmechanical solution rather than implementing the already
identified mechanical solution. Studies to identify nonmechanical
solutions would be carried out and would determine what alternativi
options, if any, were feasible. To help minimize any risk of
implementation delay even after the optimal approach has been
determined, disbursements after April 30* 1990 would be contingent
upon HMGN's having initiated implementation of a satisfactory
desiltation facility. On water management, automatic stream
dividers would replace the traditional gates, thus minimizing
the need for operators; water users' groups would be
strengthened; and the proposed operational plan would reduce the
possibility of unauthorized use of water.  On O&M, HMGN would
review its O&M budget with IDA annually; also, the assessment
and collection procedures for water charges would be
rationalized and the level of charges linked to O&K costs.
Finally, the risk of delays in project implementation has been
reduced as most procurement documents were made ready by
appraisal, and experienced contractors with proven ability will
be available. The project is not expected to have adverse
environmental effects.



lum
MUNSARI NORANG IRRIGATION II PRJEMCI
STAFF APPRAISA  RORT
Table of Contents
Wae No.
I. !ACKGROn ND ............I....................................    1
General                                                         I
Agriculture and Irrigation in Nepal ......................    2
Irrigation Development Prospects and Constraints                3
Bank Group Involvement in Irrigation Development                7
II.  THE PROJECT AREA AND PAST EXPERIINCE .......      ... .....    9
A. The Project Area    ..*.... ....*....**.****.* ..    9
Location and Communications      9........................    9
Natural Resources 9......9
Population, Farm Size, and Land Tenure         ...................  11
Present Agriculture ......................................   12
Agricultural Support Services ............................   12
B.  Irrigation Development in the Project Area .....0..........    14
Early Development of the Project Area ..................    14
Sunsari Morang Irrigation and Drainage Project (Stage I) .   15
Lessons Learned ,..e..o...........,eo.oeeo..ee.*ee.o e    15
Rationale for IDA Involvement ......,............e.,    17
III.  THE PROJECT ......................i.............   ,s            l1
A.  Project Scope and Objectives   .............................   18
Project Concept 4-.-...*. .  +....... .  .-..........          18
Project Objectives ...............e........    19
Summary of Project Components ...,.....................    19
B.  Detailed Features *..O.0400000000so*ee Oeoeeoe                 19
Improvements to the CMC .. .,   19
Irrigation and Drainage Works in Stage I and
Stage II Areas ..............   20
Buildings       .......                ..      ...   21
Vehicles and Equipment *.e.oe.oo*o**oee*eoee**eee    22
Technical Support ...       ...........    22
Support for Establishment and Maintenance Costs ..... .....  23
C. Design and Implementation        ...............................   24
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission which visited Nepal
in November/December 1986, and comprised of Messrs. Yung K. Choi, P. Ram and
R. Vick (part-time) (IDA); and Messrs. W. Barber, G. Peri and R.C. Mishra
(Consultants). Messrs. B. Favcett (Irrigation Adviser to IMN) and J.E.
Breslar (USAID/Katbmandu) assisted in the appraisal of the project. Word
processing was done by Mrs. S. Douglas.



-ii-
Paie so,
IV.  COST ESTInSTE. -FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENTS .. ........ 0*      26
Project Cost Estimates **.*oo..o.oooo*eo6eeoo*o.eoooo.o...    26
Financing ..o..o.oo. o.o eoo.. oo.. oo.. oo.o.o. ooooo*...e...   27
Procurement ...............ooo .....   .0oo.ooo  .ooe*.oooo.*.   27
Disbursement ***.**. .................................    29
Accounts and Audits .......... ... .............eeeeee         30
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT *.e.oe...e........ee......          31
General  *eeeo..e...oe............e*e.oe**eeo..e...   31
Project Organization .....    .... ....... .....    31
Water Management ***e**00006e00e90****00004   34
Quality Coutrol ............                                   37
Monitoring and Evaluation ..........         ............   37
Agricultural Support Services      ............................   38
Regional and District Coordination Committees   ............    39
VI.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. FARM INCOME. AnD COST RECOVER  ....   39
Agricultural Production ...... **** ..........*.........   39
Market Prospects   ..................... .                    40
Prices ***************e***eg*** 41
Farm Incomes     *e.o.eo........................,.,    41
Capital and 06K Costs ...............e....e......,*           42
Cost Recovery  ........................      .ee..   42
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                       46
Project Impact                                                46
Economic Analysis ..e ......   . *                            47
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis                                 48
Environmental Effects                                         50
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................    50
Agreemenat s ............                                     50
Recomendations                                                53



-iii-
Page No.
SUPPORTING TABLES
1.  Nepal - Production of Principal Crops ......................,..   54
2.  Salient Climatic Data    ......o......o..eoao.... . .    o.e .S55
3.  Monthly Flow on Kosi River  **,........,...........e....    56
4. Estimated Importation of Suspended Bed Material from Kosi
River to CMC **vv^e*¢v**s§v***@@*o                                  57
5.  Cropping Patterns and Yields                                          58
6.  Summary Account by Project Component .....,....................   59
7.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures                                   60
8.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule .......,.......................   61
9.  Projected Credit Allocation .....62
10.  Existing and Future Staff Requirements                               63
11.  Monthly Water Requirements at CMC Intake                             64
12.  Crop Yields and Production Inputs Data                               65
13.  Summary of Annual Farm Unit Budgets at Financial Prices              66
14.  Estimated Incremental Rent and Cost Recovery                         67
15.  Benefit and Cost Stream for Economic Analysis                        68
16.  Summary of DIHM Expenditure Program for the Irrigation
Subsector ................................                          70
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Detailed Cost Estimates
Annex 2 - Irrigation System Operation and Water Management
Annex 3 - General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultancy Service
Annex 4 - Training
Annex 5 - Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 6 - Establishment and Maintenance Costs
Annex 7 - Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 8 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
CHARTS
C-1   Implementation Schedule
C-2   Organization of DIHM
C-3   Project Organization
C-4   Proposed Organization of Extension Services
C-5   Projected Cropping Pattern
C-6   Procurement Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 19901 - IDA-Assisted Irrigation Projects
IBRD 19902 - Chatra Main Canal Command Area



NEPAL
SUNSARI NORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. BACKGROUND
General
1.01    Nepal is a landlocked country sit2ated between China and India and
occupies a total area of about 147,000 km . Its population in 1986 was about
17.1 million, of which 94% were in rural areas. Since 1970, the population
has grown by an average of about 2.6% a year. The country can be divided
into three broad ecological zones--the Terai plain, the Hills, and the Moun-
tains. The Terai plain (16% of the total area, and 90% of the cultivable
area), which is part of the Ganges basin, is the center of agricultural
production in the country. Numerous rivers running north to south cut the
Hills into blocks and produce varying microclimatic conditions. The Mountain
zone is the least productive area and has the lowest population density.
1.02    Nepal lags behind most other Asian countries with respect to almost
all indicators of economic and social welfare. Economic development has been
slow: over the past 15 years, real GDP growth has averaged 3.2% annually and
has only marginally exceeded population growth (2.6%). Agricultural value
added has increased at an average rate of 1.6% per year, a per capita decline
of 0.4X per year. Nepal allq faces trade deficits, which reached about
NRs 5,300 M (about US$298 MA') in 1984/85. However, Nepal has a positive
balance of payments because of an expanding inflow of foreign loans and
grants. There are no official statistics on the unemployment situation, but
substantial unemployment and underemployment exist among both urban and rural
people. At the same time, there is a shortage of professional and technical
manpower.
1.03    The development plans of His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN)
give high priority to alleviating poverty, increasing production and incomes,
and creating employment, especially in rural areas.  HMGN places strong
emphasis on increasing agricultural production through the development of
water resources. The total public sector allocation of development expendi-
ture during the c.rrent Seventh Plan (1985-90) is NRs 29,000 M (about
US$1,630 M) at 1984/85 prices, of which about 31% is allocated to the
agriculture sector. The allocation to irrigation development under the
Seventh Plan represents 11 of the total plan expenditure and 37X of the
allocation to the agriculture sector. However, the development efforts
during the past three decades, which have been supported by growing foreign
assistance, have done little to improve the lives of the people as rapid
population increases have offset economic growth.
l/ Calculated at the exchange rate of US$1.00 = NRs 17.80, which prevailed
in 1984/85.



-2-
Agriculture and Irrigation in Nepal
1.04    Agriculture, which is largely rainfed, dominates the country's
economy. In 1985/86, it accounted for about 601 of GDP, contributed about
701 of total export earnings, and provided employment to over 90% of the
working population. During the past decade, the production of the grain
crops has grown at a slow pace (1.5% per year) whereas the production of cash
crops was significantly higher (5% per year, Table 1). The overall annual
rate of production growth was only 1.6%, as grain production accounts for 94%
of the area sown.
1.05    Agriculture in Nepal is characterized by small-scale subsistence
farming. Most of the cultivation is done by human and bullock labor. In
general, the agricultural sector has been slow to adopt changes and improve
practices. Crop yields are generally low, but could be increased con-
siderably with effective irrigation, the use of improved seeds, proper fer-
tilizer and pesticide applications, and improved farming methods. In
1984/85, fertilizer consumption averaged about 15.0 kg/ha of nutrients and
only 38% of the foodgrains area was under high-yielding varieties (HYV).
1.06    Nepal has abundant surface and groundwater resource.  It is
estimated that river discnarges average about 150 billion m per year, which
is sufficient to irrigate some 8 to 10 M ha.  However, only about 1.3 M ha
are suitably located for command by gravity, of which about 30% (0.4 M ha) is
already irrigated. A large part of the surface water supply originating from
Nepal is used in India, mainly for irrigation in the States of Uttar Pradesh
and Bihar. Exploitable groundwater resources could irrigate about 0.6 M ha,
of which 0.1 M ha has so far been developed. About 80% of the potential
irrigated area is on the Terai.
1.07    The development of surface water irrigation was initiated by the
private sector. The schemes were often simple tempor ry weirs to direct
river flows into ungated intakes. Most of the schemes were in the Hills up
until the 1950s, when private development started to extend onto the Terai
through systems constructed by large landowners or farmer groups. Many such
schemes are still in operation and some have been improved through government
funding.
1.08    The first two government-operated schemes (Mahakali, 4,700 ha, and
Chandra, 11,000 ha) were constructed on the Terai in the 1920s. During the
First and Second Development Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65), the public irriga-
tion development program concentrated on the construction of large surface
water schemes (15,000-60,000 ha) in the Terai. Under the Third Plan
(1965-70), a program of minor irrigation projects was launched to expand the
irrigation area rapidly, but the results were generally poor, mainly because
the designs were inadequate and operation and management capacity were weak.
Subsequent plans, through the Sixth Plan (198C-85), reverted mainly to con-
struction and rehabilitation of large surface water schemes, and supported



-3-
groundwater development. The Seventh Plan continues to support rehabilita-
tion of existing public irrigation systems and groundwater development, but
also includes small- and medium-scale surface water developments, par-
ticularly in the Hills region.
1.09    The public surface water schemes constructed before the early 1970s
were designed to spread water relatively thinly over a large area. The
irrigation distribution systems were developed down to blocks of 100-200 ha.
Since the 1970s, HMGN's planning criteria have changed, in part, as a result
of increasing support to the sector by the Bank Group (para 1.16 et seq) and
the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Distribution systems have been extended to
serve smaller blocks, at first to 50 ha and more recently to 5-10 ha, and
Water Users' Groups (WUGs) have been formed to improve water management at
the block level. Simultaneously, the agricultural services have been
strengthened to improve agricultural extension support and the availability
of inputs and credit to farmers.
1.10    The Department of Irrigation, Hydrology, and Meteorology (DIHM),
which is responsible for the planning, design, construction, and operation
and maintenance (O&M) of most public sector irrigation developments in Nepal,
has grown in strength over the past two decades. However, the Department
remains technically weak in certain areas of irrigation development, par-
ticularly in the planning and design of projects. The need for technical
assistance through engineering consultancy services can be expected to con-
tinue in the foreseeable future, and part of this support will be provided by
expatriates. In time, however, the need for consultancy services would
decline if effective training programs were provided for DIHM staff; thus
effective on-the-job training of staff by the consultants needs to be
stressed.
Irrigation Development Prospects and Constraints
1.11    The National Planning Commission's production targets for the
agricultural sector call for an annual growth rate of about 4.0%, but this
goal will be hard to reach, especially when compared to the recent growth
rate of 1.6Z a year. Practically all arable land is already under cultiva-
tion, Some small increases in area cultivated can be achieved in the rainfed
areas.  However, the productivity of existing rainfed and irrigated agricul-
ture will have to increase considerably and the irrigated area will have to
be expanded if production is to increase substantially. IDA is currently
examining in detail with HMGN the options for increasing production and
productivity in Nepal. Preliminary analysis suggests that in order to exceed
past growth rates and achieve production targets set by the National Planning
Commission, irrigation would need to be expanded annually to an area con-
siderably above the present rate of about 20,000 ha per year.
1.12    As indicated earlier (para 1.06), only about 30% of the total irriga-
tion potential of Nepal has been developed. Most of the undeveloped poten-
tial is located on the Terai, where about 940,000 ha could be developed using



-4-
surface water sources. However, development is constrained by economic,
technical, fiscal, and political factors:
(a) The main sources of reliable perennial water supply are provided by
eight major or medium-sized rivers, and are expensive to develop
because large investments are generally required in the headworks
facilities relative to the small areas that they can command.
(b) Most of the rivers carry heavy sediment loads, which caa create
operational problems and high maintenance costs for the irrigation
systems.
(c) A large proportion of the surface water must be developed by the
public sector because of the technology involved, the system manage-
ment requirements, and the high capital investment costs. Thus the
rate of development is limited by financial constraints on the
government.
(d) All new exploitations of surface water for irrigation are subject
to agreement with India as a downstream riparian user.
1.13    Preliminary estinates of the area being developed annually, the
approximate cost of development, and the area remaining to be developed are
summarized by source of water in the following table:
Present                  Remaining      Estimated
Annual        Area       Area to be    Development
Type of Development                      ment   Developed   Developed          Cost
(ha)        (ha)          (ha)          (US$/ha)
Groundwater - Private                6.000      1             }                  225
Groundwater - Public                 2,000      }100r         }420,000         1,325
Surface Water - Rehabilitation       7,500      }               75,000         1,800
Surface Water - New Development    5,000        j400,000       940,000         3,500 +
Hill Irrigation                        500                     150,000         4,000
The estimates indicate that groundwater development offers the least-cost
investment option for expanding the irrigated area. In addition, groundwater
development yields quick returns, allows good water control, and--in the case
of private development--is not a financial burden on the budget. However,
the prospects for significantly increasing the rate of groundwater develop-
ment are limited. In the case of private wells, although credit is avail-
able, a well represents a substantial investment to an individual farmer who
must have either a large farm or an assured market for selling water. Suc-
cessful public development through deep tubewells requires reliable power
supplies, and state funding; the viability of such investments depends on
successful establishment of Water Users' Groups (WUG), proper management of
the well, and the need to recover O&M costs. Rehabilitation of public sur-
face irrigation systems would be completed in 10-15 years when irrigation



-5-
development will have to rely mostly on groundwater unless riparian issues
are resolved and large-3cale development of new surface irrigation projects
can resume. The possibility of improving the performance of farmer-managed
irrigation schemes is being explored; the question is how to do so without
turning them in the process into public sector operations competing for
scarce public financial and managerial resources. Development of irrigation
in the Hills is expensive; most of the streams are already utilized by farmer
groups, and any improvements should be based on retaining these groups. O&M
in the Hills by the public sector is likely to be difficult and expensive.
1.14    The goal of public sector irrigation development during the past
decade has been to improve performance and management of irrigation schemes.
Government distribution systems have been extended to serve increasingly
smaller turnout commands, and attempts have been made to establish WUGs among
the beneficiaries to improve water management at he micro-distribution
level. Experience in Nepal and elsewhere has inoicated that the traditional
design of irrigation systems, with numerous gated structures, is unsatisfac-
tory. Consequently, a modified design has been developed to permit rela-
tively simple management at both government and farmer levels. The existing
system will be modified under the Narayani Irrigation III Project and the
proposed Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project to provide irrigation according
to strictly applied rotational water supply (RWS) principles.
1.15    IDA has provided assistance to Nepal for some years to strengthen
management and planning of irrigation facilities. The assistance, which has
been embodied in past irrigation projects and would be continued as part of
the proposed Sunsari Morang project, has focused primarily on improving
irrigation project analysis and planning and financial and operational
management at a project and subsectoral level. Because of weaknesses in
national planning functions, important questions concerning the role and
relative emphasis to be assigned irrigation, particularly in terms of sec-
toral allocations of budgetary resources, have not been adequately addressed
to date. Neither has there been guidance regarding the types of irrigation
investments that would best suit the country's broader requirements at any
given point. Consequently, the irrigation subsector has been developd
without the necessary macroeconomic guidelines to allow investments in the
subsector to make their most effective contribution within a broader economic
context.  However, with the advent of program budgeting under the structural
adjustment credit, an important linkage between national and subsectoral
resource allocation functions is now being forged that will allow irrigation
projects to be designed and evaluated in accordance with their prospective
contribution to national economic priorities and with a clearer indication of
the total resources that should be appropriately allocated to the sector over
time.
1.16    HMGN's investment program for the irrigation subsector under the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985/86-1989/90) is summarized as follows (details
are in Table 16):



-6-
Rehabilitation
and Completion          New               Total
of Projects          Projects         Expenditures a/
--------------------- -NRsM_-_____-- _____________
Terai
Surface               2,140,6               220.0             2,360.6
Groundwater             291.8                 3.3               295.1
Hills
Surface                 473.0               337.6               810.6
Total              2,905.4               560.9             3,466.3
a/ 1984/85 Prices; estimates include baseline cost and 10% physical
contingencies.
HMGN has recently re-endorsed, in generAl terms, the Seventh Plan's general
policy for investment in irrigation projects; this gives priority to new
developments with low unit area costs and short gestation periods, and to
rehabilitation and system improvement. Under the recently approved Struc-
tural Adjustment Program, HMGN has undertaken to screen major ongoing and
proposed development projects, including irrigation projects, and to prepare
a core investment program. The irrigation investment program shown above is
therefore likely to be revised. In the case of irrigation, schemes included
in the core program should have low unit area development costs, and should
generate benefits quickly, and should not overly burden the government recur-
rent budget; while these criteria are consistent with Seventh Plan policy, it
can be anticipated that they are likely to be more rigorously applied as a
consequence of the Structural Adjustment Program.
1.17    The proposed Sunsari Morang operation would continue the rehabilita-
tion of an ongoing project at a relatively low unit area cost. Its economic
viability is high (ERR - 21Z) and with the new cost recovery provisions
should not burden the HMGN budget after a short transition period.  Conse-
quently, although definition of the core investment program is still in
progress, all indications are that HMGN would include the project in this
progrm. The project is part of a larger package of ongoing IDA assistance
in strengthening irrigation management and planning in Nepal. The assistance
package includes, in addition to several other rehabilitation and expansion
projects in execution, collaboration with UNDP and USAID in strengthening the
capacity of the Irrigation Department and development of more sharply focused
planning of irrigation expenditures; and periodic consultation under the
Structural Adjustment Credit on improved subsectoral expenditure planning and
management.



-7-
Bank Group Involvement in Irrigation Development
1.18    The first project undertaken with IDA assistance was the Birganj
Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 Mt 1973). Its objec-
tive was to cumplete and upgrade the irrigation and drainage system on
28,700 ha commanded by the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and to provide
groundwater irrigation to an additional 2,700 ha, but the area for improved
surface water irrigation was reduced to 15,900 ha during the implementation
period. The project was completed in 1981. The Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage II Project (Cr. 856-NEP, US$14.0 1, 1978) was designed to
develop the 12,800 ha deferred under the Birganj Irrigation project (Cr.
373-NEP), to extend the groundwater scheme to an additional 800 ha through
community-managed tubewells, and to intensify the agricultural support serv-
ices. All physical targets of the project, except the community wells, had
been achieved by project completion at the end of 1986. However, O&M and
farmers' involvement in water distribution can still be further improved.
These improvements will be made under the Narayani Irrigation III Project
described in para 1.22(d).
1.19    The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M,
1976) was the first stage of a public sector groundwater development in
Western Terai, which included the construction of 64 tubewell irrigation
systems serving about 7,600 ha and the strengthening of the agricultural
support services. The credit was fully disbursed in March 1983, with only
80% of the works completed. A follow-up project is now ongoing as described
in para 1.22(c).
1.20     Babai Irrigation Engineering Project (Cr. 1093-NEP, US$3.5 M, 1981)
was intended to develop detailed designs and tender documents for the first
stage of the proposed Babai Irrigation Project on 13,500 ha, and for 46 km of
the East-West Highway. A consulting firm was engaged for the work and the
required documents were submitted in October 1983 and have since been
updated. The project was completed in March 1986.
1.21    A component of the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP,
US$8.0 M, 1976) completed in December 1983 provided for improvements of
small-scale irrigation schemes in the Hills and development of a high-lift
scheme on about 1,900 ha in Nuwakot District. The small-scale irrigation
schemes have made a substantial impact on production, while the complex lift
scheme has not been up to expectation.
1.22    At present, IDA supports the following ongoing irrigation projects:
(a) Sunsari Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
(Cr. 812-NEP, US$30.0 M, 1978). This project has been extended for a
total of three years; completion is scheduled for June 1987. The
follow-up project is the subject of this report. A discussion of
experience gained and lessons learned is provided in paras 2.21-2.26.



-8-
(b) Nahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I) (Cr. 1055-UPt US$16.9 No
1981). The project was designed to rehabilitate and upgrade an
existing irrigation system on 3,400 ha and to extend the irrigation
system to an additional 3,200 ha. Implementation is behind schedule
owing to procurement difficulties and delays in hiring consultants,
but most of the problems have now been resolved. The total project
area has been reduced to 4,700 ha, but the reduced project continues
to be viable. Completion is scheduled for mid-1988.
(c) Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater II Project (Cr. 1316-NEP, US$16.0 N,
1983). The project finances the completion of stage I works (para
1.17), O&N of the completed wells during the five-year implementation
period, and the introduction of improved designs for the construction
of new tubewell systems. The project also supports the rehabilita-
tion and the O&M costs of the Birganj Groundwater Scheme, and finan-
ces a consultant's study to define strategies for future development
of groundwater resources in the Terai. The performance of completed
stage I systems has been excellent since the extension of the
national power grid has been extended into the area and power supply
is now ensured at the facilities. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1988.
(d) Narayani Irrigation III Project (Cr. 1715-NEP, US$24.5 M; Swiss
Covernment Grant US$7.5 N, 1986). The project was designed to com-
plete the development of the irrigation and drainage system of the
NEC Command (37,400 ha) and includes minor remodeling of the stage I
and II project areas of 28,700 ha and construction of improved dis-
tribution systems on 8,700 ha. The project is to be completed by
mid-1994.
(e) The Second Rural Development Project (Cr. 939-UEP, US$11.0 M, 1979).
This project includes a component for improving small-scale irriga-
tion schemes in the hills of Mahakali zone.
(f) The Third Rural Development Project (Cr. 1727-NEP, US$19.1 M, 1986).
A component of this project includes construction of 28 small new
irrigation schemes and rehabilitation of 18 existing ones in the two
hill districts of Rasuwa and Nuwakot in Bagmati zone. The project
also includes construction of four medium irrigation schemes and
rehabilitation of two existing schemes. The project is expected to
become effective in June 1987.
1.23    In addition to the above, the Bank Group serves as an Executing
Agency of the following irrigation development activities:
(a) preparation of a package of medium irrigation projects in the Hill
zone of central Nepal under a UNDP-financed project
(UNDP/NEP/80/033)1 and



-9-
(b) a program for strengthening the Irrigation Department, which is
financed by UNDP (NEP/85/013) in collaboration with USAID
(para 1.17).
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND PAST EXPERIENCE
A. The Project Area
Location and Communications
2.01    The Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project (SMIP) is located in the
southe!'n parts of the Sunsari and Morang Districts in the Kosi Zone of Nepal
(Map IBRD 19901). The total cultivable command area (CCA) of SHIP was
originally defined as 69,000 ha, but has now been reduced to about 58,000 ha
with the elimination of areas of very sandy soil. The northern boundary of
the project area is defined by the Chatra Main Canal (CMC), which originates
at the Kosi River near the village of Chatra and terminates about 53 km to
the east at the Bakra River; the southern boundary is the Nepal-India border
(Map IBRD 19902). The East-West Highway runs within a few kilometers of the
CHC throughout most of its length. A major north-south road from the highway
passes through Biratnagar to Jogbani on the Nepal-Indian border. Jogbani is
also on the railway line from Calcutta. Several north-south and east-west
tracks traverse the project area, but these routes are unreliable whenever
the rivers are in spate. Biratnagar has an all-weather airport with daily
scheduled flights to Kathmandu and to towns in eastern Nepal.
Natural Resources
2.02    Climate.  The climate in the project area is subtropical.  Tempera-
tures are high between March and October, the hottest month being April,
during which the mean daily maximum temperature is about 340C. During the
cool period from November to February, mean monthly temperatures are in the
range of 16 - 220C. The coldest month is January, during which the mean
daily minimum temperature is about 90C. The mean annual rainfall at Birat-
nagar airport is 1,729 mm; a range of 1,403 to 2,110 mm was recorded for
1976-85. The monsoon rainfall generally starts in late May and ends in early
October. The wettest months are from June to September, which receive about
801 of the total rainfall. The climate is suitable for year-round agricul-
ture providing irrigation water is available in the dry months. Irrigation
is usually necessasy to obtain high yields from monsoon crops owing to the
uncertainty of rain. The climatic data are summarized in Table 2.
2.03    Topography and Drainage.  The project area is flat with subdued
micro-relief features.  It slopes from north to south with an average
gradient of 1:700, slackening to the south. Elevations range from 107 m
above mean sea level (AMSL) at the intake of the CMC to less than 60 m AMSL
at the Indian border. The area is crossed by numerous streams that run
southward into India, several of which are perennial, although they carry low



-10-
dry-season flows. The natural drainage ii generally good, except in the
vicinity of the left bank protection bund of the Kosi barrage.
2.04    Soils.  The soils of the area are alluvial; most are yellowish-brown
and light in texture. Some 55% of the soils are classified as sandy loam,
25% loam, 5% clay loam, 5% loamy sand, 2% sand, and the balance as silt loam.
They contain only small amounts of organic matter and nitrogen, but phos-
phorus and potash content varies from low to fairly high. Soil reaction
varies from slightly alkaline to slightly acidic. The soils are moderately
to well drained and their water-holding capacities are low to moderate. With
proper water management, rice or upland crops can be grown on most of the
lands. At the tail ends of Sukhsaina, Shankapur, Sitagunj, and Biratnagar
distributaries (Map IBRD 19902), there are limited areas of very light soils
overlying sand at a depth of 30 cm or less. Since transit losses from
unlined canals constructed in these soils would be high, and water would have
to be applied frequently for effective irrigation, the areas have been taken
out of the project command.
2.05    Surface Water Resources.  The surface water resources of the project
are taken from the Kosi river, an international inland waterway flowing from
Nepal to India. The riparians entered into an agreement on April 25, 1954,
called the "Kosi Project Agreement." The agreement, which was amended on
December 19, 1966, provides that "HMGN shall have every right to withdraw
for irrigation and for any other purpose in Nepal water from the Kosi river
and from the Sun-Kosi river or within the Kosi basin from any other
tributaries of the Kosi river as may be required from time to time. The
Union (GOI) shall have the right to regulate all the balance of supplies in
the Kosi river at the barrage site thus available from time to time and to
generate power in tne Eastern Canal". In the opinion of the Bank's staff,
the project would not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows
into India. In accordance with the Bank's policy relating to rehabilitation
projects on international waterways, there is no need to notify the riparian
state (India) about the project.  The HMNG has also informed the Bank that it
is not within the purview of the Indo-Nepal Kosi Project Commission, estab-
lished under the above-mentioned Agreement, to exchange information about the
project.
2.06    The design capacity of the headreach of the CMC is 45.3 m3/sec (1,600
cusecs). The flow on the Kosi river is always far in excess of this require-
ment, mean flows ranging' from about 350 m /sec during March to 4,760 m /sec
during August (Table 3). The Kosi Project Agreement between Nepal and India
places no restrictions on the amount of water that Nepal can divert from the
river to the CMC. However, the river water carries a heavy load of silt
during the flood season, with the mean monthly sediment loads ranging from
2.30 to 3.75 g/l during July through September (Table 4). Other sources of
surface water are the streams crossing the area, some of which are perennial.
At present, these are exploited to only a limited extent by farmers possess-
ing diesel pumpsets.



-11-
2.07    Groundwater Resources.  The project area is underlain by a thick,
high-yielding, alluvial aquifer system that can be exploited by shallow or
deep tubewells. The groundwater potential is large, but at present it is
utilized to only a limited extent. There are a number of private shallow
tubewells in the project area; these are equipped with diesel pumpsets and
yield about 10-15 1/sec. They are used primarily for irrigating sugarcane,
vegetables, and rice nurseries, and less frequently for the common rabi
crops.
Population, Farm Size, and Land Tenure
2.08    The total population of the SHIP area is estimated to be about
260,000, and the average family consists of about seven persons. There are
eight towns within or near the project area that exert an influence on its
development.l/ The rural population lives in small villages and is almost
entirely supported by agriculture.
2.09    The distribution of landholdings by size in Sunsari District 2/ is
as follows:
Size of                                                   Average
Holdingt             Holdings             Area             Holdin
(ha)                  (?)               7(ha)
<0.5                 34.3                2.8               0.16
0.5-1.0                 15.2                5.4               0.70
1.0-3.0                 32.0               27.8               1.69
3.0-5.0                  9.5               19.0               3.87
>5.0                  9.0               45.0               9.91
Source:  Study on the Land Tenure System in Nepal by Integrated
Development System, Kathmandu, 1986.
The average farm size in Sunsari District is 1.95 ha. Some 9% of the hold-
ings are larger than 5.0 ha and farm about 45% of the land; however, almost
50% of the holdings have less than 1.0 ha and farm only about 8% of the land.
Fragmentation of holdings is common. Only a small number of farmers have
tenancy holdingst and about one-third of the farmers hold at least part of
their land as tenants. Rents, which are controlled by legislation and are
paid in kind, amount to 20 - 30% of gross production value; in addition, the
tenant pays for all agricultural inputs except water charges.
1/ The towns are Biratnagar, Dubhi, Ithari, Jhumka, Chatrat Inarwa, Jogbani,
and Rangeli (Map IBRD 19902).
2/ Stage I and II areas cover only Sunsari District.



-12-
Present ABriculture
2.10    The present cropping intensity in the Stage II area averages about
129X (Table 5). Paddy is the predominant crop grown and is planted on about
92Z of the cultivated land. About 84X of the land in the kharif season is
planted to the main paddy crop, of which about 40% is under improved
varieties (mainly Masuli, with some Janaki and Sabitri). The average yield
of the main paddy is 2.4 t/ha; HYVs yield about 3.4 t/ha with an assured
water supply and fertilizer. Summer paddy is cultivated with irrigation on
about 8X of the area. It is generally sown broadcast in March-using
low-yielding local varieties (Jhali, Bhesia) if the irrigation supply is
insecure--and is harvested in July-August. When assured irrigation water is
availeble, this paddy is replaced with HYVs such as CH 45 and Laxmi. The
average yield of all varieties of summer paddy is 1.6 t/has with HYV yielding
about 3.5 t/ha with an assured water supply and adequate application of
agricultural inputs. Jute is an important cash crop and is grown under
rainfed conditions on about 7% of the cultivated land. However, the area
planted varies from year to year owing to the wide fluctuations in market
prices. The high-yielding jute varieties (JRO, JRC) are sown on well-drained
lands, while lower-yielding local varieties, which can withstand water log-
ging, are planted on low-lying fields. Its average yield is about 1.3 t/ha.
Jute does not respond well to irrigation, but the yields have been increased
to about 1.6 t/ha with proper crop management.
2.11    Wheat covers about 17% of the cultivated area.  The major varieties
grown are nR 21 and UP 262, which yield about 1.4 t/ha. This low yield is
attributable to untimely planting and the unreliable water supply. The yield
increases to about 2.7 t/ha if the wheat is planted around mid-November,
provided with proper irrigation, and adequately fertilized. Other crops
grown in the rabi season are pulses (2%) and mustard (21); although some
improved varieties are available, the farmers prefer to grow the local
varieties. Pulses and mustard are usually sown as relay crops in standing
paddy fields in October-November and their average yields are only 0.7 t/ha
and 0.5 t/hav respectively. However, with irrigation and with light fer-
tilizer applications, the yield of pulses increases to 1.0 t/ha and the yield
of oilseeds to 0.8 t/ha. Hot-season maize (Rampur Yellow and Hetauda Com-
posite) is planted on about 6% of the cultivated area where irrigation water
is available. The average yield is only 1.6 t/ha, but, with secure irriga-
tion and the use of fertilizer, the yield increases to 3.0 t/ha. In addi-
tion, seasonal vegetables and potatoes are grown in small plots, but the
yields of bota are low (about 8.0 t/ha) and could be improved. Sugarcane
is planted on about 12 of the area and the average yield is low (25 t/ha),
but increases to 35 t/ha with reliable irrigation.
Agricultural Support Services
2.12    4gricultural Extension.  Agricultural extension is orgrAnized accord-
ing to the Training and Visit (T&V) system. The IDA-assisted Second Agricul-
tural Extension Project (Cr. 1570-NEP, 1985) covers both project districts.
The district staff is headed by the Agricultural Development Officer (ADO).



-13-
An Assistant Agricultural Development Officer (AADO) assists with the
day-to-day operation of the service. Two Subject Matter Specialists (S18),
one in agronomy and one in plant protection, provide fortnightly training to
field staff at each of the five subcenters in each district. Junior Tech-
nicians (JT) are based at the subcenters, each serving 8-12 panchayats. Each
JT supervises three to five Junior Technical Assistants (JTA), who, in turn,
each supervise Panchayat-Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAA) in three to
four panchayats. Each PLAA services 700-800 farm families. Extension sup-
port to the project area has been inadequate because the extension staff has
not yet been adequately trained in irrigated agriculture, and because the
extension service and project management has not been properly coordinated
(para 2.27).
2.13    Agricultural Research.  The Tarahara Agriculture and Livestock Sta-
tion is located in Sunsari district to the north of the project area. It
maintains 22 ha of research and seed-multiplication farms and employs 16
research staff. The station receives support under the IDA-supported
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP, US$17.5 1, 1981).
Each year the station conducts 25-40 adaptive trials on rice, wheat, oil-
seeds, pulses, and sugarcane at the station farm and 10-15 farmers' field
trials and cropping pattern trials in each of the project districts.
Problems relating to jute cultivation are within the purview of the Jute
Development and Trading Corporation (JDTC), which runs its own research
stations; the one serving the project area is at Itahari. The research
findings of these various organizations will support the project.
2.14    Agricultural Credit.  The major source of institutional credit is the
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), which provides credit for
farmers and agro-based industries. Commercial banks provide agricultural
credit, but the volume is small, representing less than 5% of the total
borrowing for agricultural purposes in the project area. The standard terms
of ADBN are 18 months at 151 annual interest for short-term loans, 7 years at
121 annual interest for medium-term loans, and 20 years at 8% annual interest
for long-term loans. ADBN has zonal and branch offices at Biratnagar, a
branch office at Inarwa, and two village subbranches in the project area.
Local statistics show that the total disbursement of agricultural credit in
the project area in 1985-86 was NRs 24.5 M, and according to ADBN sources,
the recovery rate averages about 70%. Borrowing from private sources
(family, middlemen, and traders) is also widespread, although the interest
rates, which may reach 30% per annum, are much higher than for institutional
credit.
2.15    Agricultural In?uts. The Agricultural Input Corporation (AIC), which
has a sonal office at Biratnagar, is the sole government agency supplying
inputs. AIC supplies agricultural inputs to about 14 8ajhas (cooperatives),
which sell them at their depots at the village level. In 1985-86, AIC sup-
plied about 98 tons of improved paddy seed, 600 tons of wheat, 5 tons of
maize, 1 ton of vegetable seeds, and 4,300 tons of various fertilizers in the
project districts. Use of fertilizers in the districts is low, averaging
about 10.5 kg of nutrients (7 kg of nitrogen, 3 kg of phosphate, and 0.5 kg



-14-
of potash) per hectare cropped. The use of plant-protecting chemicals is
negligible. Most farming operations are carried out by hand or with the aid
of a draft animal (oxen or buffalo). On the average, there is one pair of
draft animals for about 2.7 ha of cultivated land, which is considered ade-
quate if farmers share or hire out animals in peak periods. Overall, as the
quality and relevance of extension services in the area improves (paras 2.12
and 2.27), the demand for the use of improved inputs is likely to increase.
2.16    Marketing, Processing, and Storage.  A large proportion of the
foodgrain production is consumed by the farm households. Surpluses are sold
in the village markets to traders and middlemen who sell either in the
wholesale commodity markets in the towns or directly to millers, Markets are
generally free of government intervention or regulation. Therefore, prices
of commodities are generally established by free market forces, and to some
extent reflect relevant prices in nearby Indian markets.
2.17    There are 25 large rice mills with capacities of 1.0-3.0 t/hr and
about 600 small rice mills with capacities of less than 1.0 t/hr in and
around the project area. There is one large roller mill for wheat with a
capacity of 1.6 t/hr and numerous small flour mills. There are 12 medium to
large crushers with capacities of 300-600 1/hr for extracting oil from oil-
seed crops, and some 200 small oil mills. One sugar factory, with a crushing
capacity of 12 t/hr of cane, produces raw sugar. A second sugar factory,
with a crushing capacity of 30 t/hr of cane, produces refined sugar. Four
medium-sized jute mills operate in the project area. These processing
facilities are adequate to meet the increased needs expected to be generated
by the proposed project.
2.18    Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) has eight warehouses, mainly for milled
rice, with a total capacity of about 10,500 tons. With support from the
Swiss Association for Technical Assistance, the National Potatoes Development
Program recently constructed a cold storage facility near Biratnagar for
about 1,000 tons of potatoes. Storage facilities would not be a constraint
to agricultural activities under the proposed project.
B. Irrigation Development in the Project Area
Early Development of the Project Area
2.19    Under the Kosi Project Agreement of 1954 between Government of India
(GOI) and HMGNW, GOI undertook to finance and construct the Chatra Canal
Project in Nepal to irrigate some 69,000 ha using water diverted from the
Kosi River at a canal intake structure located near Chatra on the left bank
of the river, about 20 km upstream of the Kosi barrage. Construction of the
system started in 1964 and, after trial operations of the canal between 1970
and 1975, the project works were handed over to HMNG in 1973   The intake and
headreach of the CMC were designed for a capacity of 45.3 mJ/sec, equivalent
to about 0.66 1/sec/ha over the original comnand area. The distribution
system was terminated at turnouts serving areas of 100-200 ha and, as a



-15-
result, was capable of delivering reliable water supplies to only about
one-third of the designated command area.
Sunsari Morang Irrigation and Drainage Project (Stage I)
2.20    In 1978, IDA approved a project designed to rehabilitate and improve
the irrigation and drainage systems on the command area of the CMC
(para 1.22). The physical works were to include: (i) arrangements for river
control and flood protection along the Kosi River in the vicinity of the CMC
intake; (ii) sediment control arrangements on the canal system; (iii) res-
toration and improvement of the existing canal system, including provision of
about 180 new structures; (iv) design of minor distribution systems extending
to outlets serving 10 ha on 18,000 ha and the construction on 6,400 ha; (v)
drainage improvements on 15,000 ha; (vi) a pilot tubewell irrigation scheme;
and (vii) pilot hydroelectric schemes. Implementation of the project was
delayed, mainly because of procurement problems. In 1983, the project was
revised to provide an improved irrigation and drainage system to about 12,000
ha. A proposal to provide a desilting basin with dredger at the headreach of
the CMC (para 2.21) was postponed in favor of a supposedly cheaper solution,
and the pilot hydroelectric schemes were deleted from the project. The area
of 12,000 ha intended for improvement was further reduced to 9,750 ha
because: (i) about 1,400 ha of very sandy soils within the area were found
to be unsuitable for surface water irrigation (para 2.04); and (ii) a local
contractor who was awarded a contract for works on 850 ha failed to perform.
2.21    The irrigation system improved under the project is gated down to the
intakes serving chaks of about 50 ha. Watercourses within these chaks are
extended to 10-ha outlets with gated division boxes. The system is designed
to operate with varying flows of up to 66 1/sec at the chak intake structure.
These high flows must be divided within the chak for use by individual
farmers. The field channel system below the division boxes at 10 ha were to
be constructed by the farmers, but under the Stage I Project, these
facilities have been developed on only about 2,000 ha. Moreover, water
users' groups (WUGs) have been slow to form, even though the project mandated
that such groups were to be established to manage and maintain the field
channel systems.
Lessons Learned
2.22    The Need for a Reliable Desilting Facility.  When the Stage I project
was originally formulated, the plans included the provision of a desilting
basin equipped with a dredger and located at the top of the headreach of the
CMC. However, when the project concept was revised in 1983, it was decided
to delay provision of this facility because of: (i) its high capital and
O&M costs compared to the area it would initially protect; and (ii) concern
that the project authority would not be capable of operating and maintaining
the mechanical equipment. The solution implemented was a "settling reach" on
the top 2.0 km of the headreach (with an access road), which was to be
cleared mechanically during canal closures, and provision of two vortex silt
ejectors at RD 31 and RD 39.6 on the CMC. HMGN consultants also submitted



-16-
proposals for a complex operation of the head regulator gates to the CMC,
storage of silt on the headreach, and operation of the silt ejectors to
minimize silting on the distribution system. The procedures proposed were
never fully implemented; there are indications that they would be difficult
to apply in practice. Furthermore, they would entail random closures of the
canal during periods of high irrigation demand in the kharif, and thus would
adversely affect the integrity of the irrigation service,
2.23    Irrigation water supplied to the newly completed Stage I area of
9,750 ha after late July 1986 demonstrated the seriousness of the _iltation
problem and the urgent need for a viable solution. Some 140,000 m of sedi-
ment were cleared from the settling reach during the previous rabi canal
closure to create room for the storage of silt, and the silt ejector at RD
39.6 was in operation to protect the Stage I area. However, substantial silt
passed the ejector during the kharif season to settle on the newly opened
canal system and significantly reduce its carrying capacity. The minor
canals and watercourses suffered in particular, and many of them lost at
least half their capacity in this one season. Attempts by the farmers to
clean some watercourses failed to keep pace with the rate of siltation. The
overall result was that the canal system could not operate in a reliable
manner and could not provide the planned water supply. It is obvious that
continued investment in an improved irrigation network subject to this level
of siltation would not be viable. If canal operations were shut down during
periods of high silt load on the Kosi River, kharif cropping would be reduced
to an essentially rainfed situation; the rabi cropping could possibly also
suffer to the extent that the economic rate of return (ERR) of the Stage II
project investments would drop to 10% or less. Thus, at this time, there
appears to be no readily obvious (economically, financially, technically and
managerially) practical alternative to a desilting facility which can remove
silt on a continuous basis during periods when the intake water carries large
quantities of suspended solids. Such a facility would be financed under the
Stage II project.
2.24    Appropriate Irrigation System Design for Subsequent Management.  The
irrigation network was designed according to the state of the art in the
mid-1970s. Since then, significant experience has accumulated. The opera-
tion of the improved irrigation system designed by the project authority's
consultants for the Stage I area, although technically sound, has proved to
be difficult to manage. Water distribution requires a complex operational
plan because of the large number of control gates in the canal system; in
turn, the project authority cannot effectively manage the large number of
project operations staff required. The limited length of watercourses, the
lack of a field channel system, and the complications of managing high and
variable flows within the chaks all contribute to poor performance at the
chak level, which is compounded by the lack of effective hUGs (paras 2.20 and
2.25). There are already reports that the minor canals and chak watercourses
are being breached and chak intake gates vandalized because the water supply
is unreliable, mainly as a result of siltation in the channels (para 2.22).
As a consequence of the above experience, the project authority assisted by
the project consultants have modified the design for the area to be improved



-17-
under the Stage II preject, primarily to simplify operation. It is now based
on ungated, fixed-flow chak intake structures each serving chaks of about 28
hap with watercourses extended to outlets commanding about 4 ha. Within the
chak, allocation follows a rotational water supply (RWS), with the full chak
stream diverted to one farmer at a time according to a predetermined schedule
(para 3.07).
2.25    Appropriate2r Structured and Staffed O&M Unit.  The Stage I project
has been concerned mainly with the design and construction of works. It did
not fully provide for an O&M organization within the project authority, with
properly trained staff, well-defined responsibilities, and adequate funds and
equipment to carry out its designated work. These improvements would be
provided for under the proposed project (para 5.04).
2.26    Properly Organized and Empowered Water Users' Groups (WUGs).  WUCs
were to have been organized under the Stage I project. Although a number of
groups were formed, their performance has not been notably successful. Part
of the poor performance reflects a natural reluctance to organize before a
timely and reliable water supply was provided. In addition, the functions
and responsibilities of the WUCs need to be clearly defined, and they need to
be empowered to enforce discipline on their members. Finally, they require
appropriate training. These requirements would be fulfilled under the
project (para 5.11).
2.27    Linkage Between DOA and the Project Authority.  The agricultural
extension service to the project deteriorated after 1985 when the project's
agricultural extension staff, which had previously been directly controlled
by the project authority, were reorganized within DOA on a district basis.
The present extension service does not adequately address the needs of
farmers using canal irrigation (para 2.12). Under the proposed project,
arrangements would be made to provide extension staff within Sunsari district
to serve the needs of irrigated agriculture, and with a well-defined linkage
to the project authority (para 5.21). These improvements would be in accord-
ance with countrywide norms for strengthening the agricultural extension
service in new irrigation areas.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.28    The SKIP is the largest surface water irrigation system in Nepal.
The primary rationale for IDA involvement is to advance the rehabilitation
and improvement of the irrigation and drainage systems and to improve opera-
tion and maintenance so that the irrigation service is reliable and equitable
to all water users, thus enabling them to optimize irrigation benefits. In
this respect, the design is based on RDM principles, whijh are new in Nepal
and represent a departure from past practices 1/, although they have been
successfully introduced in projects elsewhere in South Asia. It is believed
1/ However, a small pilot area within the Stage I area has been operated
successfully with RM5 since the 1986 kharif season.



-18-
that the introduction of system improvements in both the infrastructure and
O&M, including full interaction of project management and farmers through the
WUGs, is more likely to take off smoothly with IDA participation. IDA invol-
vement would facilitate adequate maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
systems, the introduction of improved assessment and collection procedures
for water charges, arid cost recovery through water and other water-related
charges to cover the full costs of 0&0 requirements.
2.29    Linkages to Sectoral Objectives.  Support of this project is in line
with the HMCN irrigation development strategy, which gives priority to
improving the performance of existing systems. The organization and financ-
ing of O&M are important sectoral issues. Under the project, adequate finan-
ces for O&M would be better assured. Moreover, the system of assessing and
collecting water charges would be strengthened. Suitable on-farm water
management techniques would be introduced in the improved system areas
through an appropriate functional unit that would be established within the
project organization. That unit would be given a defined responsibility and
staffing to carry out this task together with the farmers, through their
WUGs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Scope and Objectives
Project Concept
3.01    The policy of HMGN, as stated in the Sixth Plan (FY 81-85) and
reiterated in the Seventh Plan (FY 86-90), is to make full use of the exist-
ing infrastructure and to operate and maintain the systems properly. These
objectives apply particularly to large surface irrigation projects where
expensive headworks or main canal infrastructure is not yet utilized effi-
ciently to enable realization of the full production potential of the command
area. Taking the Plan objectives into accountp and also the compelling need
to contribute to the relief of Nepal's balance of trade situation, the
project's agricultural objective is to raise production through the more
effective use of water and other inputs and through adjustments in the
present cropping patterns. Production objectives would be further promoted
through the strengthened relationship between the project authority and DOA,
particularly in the fields of agricultural extension and farm-level water
management. In addition, staff training under the project and the estab-
lishment of a properly funded, organized, and equipped maintenance system
would improve the technical competence of project staff and their capability
to operate and maintain the irrigation system. During the project execution
period, the assistance of outside consultants would be needed. Another major
project task is to relieva HMGN's serious and persistent budgetary con-
straints by improving cost recovery from farmers who benefit from improved



-19-
irrigation services in the Sunsari Morang and similar, large,
public-supported projects.
Project Objectives
3.02    The project aims at increasing agriculturdl production and farmers'
incomes through the rehabilitation and improvement of the existing irrigation
and drainage system and the efficient utilization of the available resources.
To achieve such cbjectives, the project would: (i) assist in introducing
improved design and operation princi,ales to the irrigation system that would
ensure reliable and equitable water supply; (ii) protect the canal system
against siltation problems by providing a desilting fanility; (iii) improve
O&M procedures and increase farmer participation in O&M; (iv) reform and
improve cost recovery; (v) provide technical support and training to
strengthen the local capability to implement the project; and (vi) strengthen
the link between DOA and project management.
Summary of Project Components
3.03    The project would be implemented over a seven-year period and would
have the following main components:
(a) Improvements to the CMC.
(b) Improvement of desilting operations.
(c) Rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation distribution and
drainage works in 16,700 ha (Stage II area).
(d) Improvement of the irrigation and drainage system in the Stage I area
(9,750 ha).
(e) Construction of buildings for offices and staff quarters.
(f) Purchase of equipment and vehicles for O&M, including spares, and
provision of radio communication for the canal system operation.
(g)  Technical support through the provision of consultancy services,
training, monitoring and evaluation, and studies.
(h) Support for incremental project establishment and maintenance costs.
B. Detailed Features
Improvements to the CMC
3.04    Under the project, improvement works on the Chatra Main Canal would
include: (i) modifications to the head regulator structure and gates;
(ii) repair to the main super pasaage at RD 21 on the headreach; (iii)



-20-
rehabilitation of the drainage chutes on the headreach; (iv) provision of
replacement gates and repairs to head regulators of distributary systems from
the CMC; (v) completion of three bridges; (vi) repairs and improvements to
cross-drainage works, siphons, and access structures; (vii) replacement of
cross-aqueduct structures; and (viii) other miscellaneous minor works. In
addition, the siitation that has accumulated in CMC prior to the provision of
the desilting facility will be removed.
3.05    Desilting Facility.  Experience with the Stage I project has shown
that desilting operations need to be improved substantially to remove the
entrapped silt entering the CMC. Possible solutions include mainly: (i) a
settling basin with two portable suction-cutter dredgers 1/ with support
facilities, ancillary equipment, and a service contract with the equipment
suppliers; (ii) a desilting facility based on hydraulic flushing of entrapped
silt; and (iii) periodic extended closure of CMC to allow major silt
clearance of the canal system.  The mechanical solution (option "i") is
technically quite certain to solve the problem, and has been widely used in
developing countries; however, H0GM has expressed concern about the cost and
about whether it is commensurate with the technical skills available in
Nepal. The feasibility of hydraulic flushing nonmechanical solution (option
"ii") is still technically uncertain. It will require careful further
examination by competent consultants. The extended canal closure option
could involve major costs and may mean enlarging the canal system and/or
reducing the overall system's use to single cropping irrigation and thus may
substantially affect the rate of return. However, HOWN prefers a nonmechani-
cal solution and wishes to pursue a mechanical solution only if further study
shows the nonmechanical solution unfeasible. Therefore, provisions have been
made under the project for studies to evaluate further the feasibility of
nonmechanical solutions, including that of a desilting facility which will
depend on hydraulic flushing of entrapped silt. The studies would be under-
taken during the kharif seasons of 1987 and 1988 under terms of reference
agreed with IDA. Until a permanent desilting facility is in place, desilta-
tion would be based on closing the CMC when silt content is very high, opera-
tion of the tws vortex silt ejectors (para 2.22), and manual clearance of the
silt entering the system. As the mechanical solution is considered to be the
most likely to be suitable, the cost estimates for desilting have been based
on that solution.
Irrigation and Drainage Works in Stage I and Stage II Areas
3.06    Improvements to the irrigation distribution system and provision of
drainage works would be extended to an additional 16,700 ha under the CMC. 2/
The irrigation works in the Stage I area of 9,750 ha would be completed to
I/ Although such dredgers would be new to Nepal, their operation is simpler
than that of bulldozers, draglines, etc., equipment which has been used
in Nepal.
2/ The 16,700 ha comprises 850 ha, which were originally to be part of the
modified Stage I project but were not completed, and about 15,850 ha of
new command area.



-21-
make the system more easily manageable. Additional drainage improvements
would be provided in the Stage I area.
3.07    Stage II Area Works.  Two large distributary systems and three minor
canals taking directly off from the CMC serve the 16,700 ha to be provided
with improved irrigation distribution systems and drainage systems. The
improved system would be entirely unlined. The large distributary canals
would be gated for regulated flow. Below the gated offtakes on the large
distributaries to areas of 70-1,300 ha there would be a system of minor
canals, which would operate-at full design discharge in an "on" or "off"
mode. The minor canals taking directly off from the CMC would operate
entirely in an "on" or "off" mode. The outlets from minor canals to chaks
(which would average 28 ha in size) would be ungated, fixed-discharge struc-
tures--ad3ustable proportional modules (APMs). The watercourse system within
the chaks would be extended to gated checks and outlets commanding about 4
ha. Construction of field channels below the 4 ha outlets would be under-
taken by farmers, supervised and assisted by the project staff. The design
concept and operational characteristics of the improved distribution system
are described in Annex 2, and the operation is discussed in para 5.09.
3.08    The drainage system is designed to evacuate up to 4.0 1/sec/ha, which
would prevent crop damage by a once-in-ten-year design storm. The drainage
system would consist of a system of field drains, collector drains, and main
drains, which would outfall to natural drains. The estimated costs for the
Irrigation and drainage systems average about I.Rs 40,000 per hectare.
3.09    Stage I Area Works.  The minor irrigation network in the 9,750 ha
completed under Stage I was constructed with gated outlets to chaks of about
50 ha having watercourses down to turnouts each commanding about 10 ha. This
system has proved difficult to operate (para 2.24). It would be completed
with the following characteristics: (i) all the canals would be operated for
continuous flow with water levels maintained at full supply level; (ii) all
chaks on the system would receive water simultaneously whenever the system is
operating; (iii) APMs would replace gates at the intakes to the chaks; and
(iv) the watercourses would be extended down to turnouts at about 4 ha.
Operation of the system is further described in para 5.09 and the design
characteristics are detailed in Annex 2. The drainage improvements initiated
under the Stage I project would be completed under the Stage II project. The
costs of the irrigation and drainage works needed to complete the Stage I
area average about NRs 16,800 per hectare.
Buildings
3.10    Buildings to be provided under the project would include:  (i) addi-
tional guesthouse space at Biratnagar; (ii) 20 houses for gate operators on
the canal system; and (iii) buildings for four irrigation block headquarters.



-22-
Vehicles and Equipment
3.11    The project would provide equipment for the desilting facility and
additional equipment and plant necessary for maintenance of the project works
(para 3.05). Desiltation equipment provisions include two electrically
powered cutter suction dredgers and ancillary equipment for the desilting
facility (Annex 1, Table 2). 1/ A service arrangement would be provided
through the project period to regularly maintain the equipment for the
desilting facility and train the operating staff. The maintenance equipment
would be required for temporary works on the Kosi river bed (to maintain
flows to the CMC head regulator structure during the period of low flow) and
for routine maintenance of the canal and drainage systems. A detailed list
of maintenance equipment is given in Annex 1, Table 6. Vehicles would be
provided under the project for the supervision of new construction and for
the operation and maintenance of completed works; these would include motor-
cycles for junior technical O&M staff and bicycles for gate operators and
other junior O&M staff. The vehicles to be provided are detailed in Annex 1,
Table 6. In addition, equipment would be provided t2 fully equip the
project's workshop at Biratnagar (Annex 1, Table 7).
3.12    The project would provide a radio-communication system for canal
operation and a small amount of specialized technical equipment, including
instruments for flow measurements and meteorological recordings, laboratory
equipment) and survey equipment (Annex 1, Table 6). The radio communication
netw,ork vould replace the existing unreliable telephone system, which has
vulfterable land lines. Radio links would be provided between the Biratnagar
headquatters and project divisional and subdivisional offices at Chatra,
Chakragatti, Inarwa, Jhumka, Duhbi, Banigama, and Buhoni to key gates on the
CMC and to key construction camps. It would be a 150-MHZ, VHF system with a
voice system of duplex in SOW for the headquarters' master station and
simplex in 25W for the substations.  HMGN has agreed to issue, by July 1,
1988, the necessary authorization and permits to commence operation of the
radio-communications system.
Technical Support
3.13    Consultants.  Consultants would be retained to assist in supervising
the construction of project works, 2/ including inter alia: ti) bid evalua-
tions; (ii) construction scheduling t(iii) quality control of construction;
(iv) monitoring of progress and costs; (v) maintenance of "as-built" con-
struction records; (vi) organization of WUGs (para 5.04); (vii) preparation
of plan of operation and maintenance (para 5.10); and (viii) in-service
1/ However, these may be changed if, following further studies, a
non-mechanical solution agreed with IDA is adopted (para 3.05).
2/ Final designs and tender documents for the entire works will be completed
by June 1987, before the start of the project.



-23-
training of SMIP staff at all levels. About 110 man-months of international
consultancy services and about 452 man-months of local consultancy services
would be provided for these various construction supervision and design tasks
(Annex 3, Table 1). In addition, about 6 man-months of international con-
sultancy services would be provided for the stu4ies related to the desilting
facility and a further 6 man-months for the detailed design of the works
(para 3.05). Also, about 12 man-months of international consultancy services
would be provided to supervise and advise the project authority on the water
management study described in para 5.19. HMGN has agreed to cause the
project authority to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA, and select them
in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines on employing consultants.
3.14    Training.  In-service training of project staff initiated under the
Stage I project is an ongoing activity and would be further strengthened
under the project (para 5.13). Provision would be made to: (i) engage
instructors; (ii) prepare training curriculae; and (iii) support special
training (through short courses and visits to other irrigation projects) for
professional staff in irrigation project construction and management as well
as the maintenance of equipment. Details of the various training courses are
given in Annex 4.
3.15    Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would strengthen and equip a
unit within the project management organization to monitor and evaluate
progress with construction of the systems and performance of the commissioned
works (para 5.16). In addition, the project would provide for technical
services in specific studies related to water management and agricultural
performance (paras 5.18 and 5.19). Details are given in Annex 5.
Support for Operation and Maintenance Costs
3.16    Large-scale public irrigation projects in Nepal, such as the SMIP,
are implemented by Irrigation Development Boards (para 5.02) under the Minis-
try of Water Resources (MWR). On completion of the works, the Boards are
meant to be dissolved and the project is then managed by an appropriate
authority or the DIHM. During the construction period, budget allocations
provided by HMGN for O&M are generally inadequate to cover all necessary
establishment costs and to provide effective maintenance. This is primarily
because O&M funding during construction is based on financial norms and is
not related to a careful review of the physical and staffing requirements.
Thus, in FY 1985/86 and 1986/87, the project authority of SNIP was allocated
URs 6.0 M per year to cover full establishment costs (staff salaries,
allowances, and other incidentals) and routine maintenance. The estab-
lishment allocation (NRs 4.0 N) is adequate, but the maintenance allocation
for the project works (about URs 2.0 N per year) has proved to be inadequate.
The project authority has estimated that the requirement for effective and
efficient maintenance (excluding the desilting facility) for FY 1986/87 will
be NRs 4.2 N and will increase, as the improved irrigation and drainage works
are being completed, to about NRs 5.8 M in FY 1994/95, when about 26,450 ha
will be completed. However, an additional NRs 6.3 M will be needed annually



-24-
to operate and maintain the desilting facility once it becomes operational in
FY 1991/92. Thu, the total annual maintenance requirements at project
completion (FY 1994/95) for the works to be properly managed will be about
MRs 12.1 M each year (in February 1987 prices), as detailed in Annex 6.
3.17    To assist HhGN in this activity, the project would support the costs
(in February 1987 prices) of: (i) incremental establishment 1/ over the
project period (about NRs 0.9 M per year); (ii) the incremental costs of
maintenance needed to maintain flows to the CMC headworks (about NUs 1.0 N
per year); (iii) dhe operation of the desilting facility (about NRs 6,3 N per
year) 2/; and (i-) maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems below
the 0CM headworks. This support would be at a rate that would be progres-
sively reduced during the project implementation period (para 4.11).
3.18    Estimates of incremental O&M costs to be supported under the project
are detailed in Annex 1, Table 5. To confirm the annual funding requirements
of the project establishment and maintenance costs, HMCN has agreed to cause
the project authority to: (i) by March 31 of each year, commencing on
March 31, 1988, and thereafter, furnish to IDA for review and comments,
estimates of the operation and maintenance costs of the project for the
forthcoming fiscal year such that establishment (salaries and allowances)
and maintenance costs can be identified by project components and, (ii) after
taking into account IDA's comments, if any, make the required budgetary
allocations to adequately cover such costs. In this respect, the project
authority would maintain the records for establishment and operation and
maintenance costs such that: (i) costs could be recognized by project com-
ponents; and (ii) records would be available for IDA to review the budget
requests and provisions for operation and maintenance of the project.
C. Design and Implementation
3.19    Status of Preparation.  The project has been prepared with the assis-
tance of foreign and local consultants. At appraisal, detailed designs and
cost estimates had been prepared for about 4,000 ha of the Stage II area.
Detailed designs for the entire works under the project, except for the
desilting facility, are expected to be completed by June 1987. Detailed
designs for the desilting facility would be undertaken in PY 1988/89 after
completion of the related studies (para 3.13). Bidding documents for the
major works and goods, except for the desilting facility, were essentially
finalized at the time of appraisal, and thus contracts can be awarded to
start all project activities scheduled to commence during the 1987/88 con-
struction season. In this respect, HMMC has agreed to cause the project
authority to: (i) carry out studies to determine an efficient method for
11 Incremental establishment costs are defined as expenditures on necessary
staff in excess of those presently in place at appraisal.
2/ Excluding the dredger service contract (para 3.05).



-25-
protecting the irrigation distribution systems in the project area against
siltation under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; (ii) by November 30,
1988, furnish to IDA for its review and comments, a detailed report of the
results and conclusions of such studies; (iii) by July 31, 1989, taking into
account the results of the studies and IDA's comments, if any, complete the
detailed designs, plans and a timetable for implementing desilting facilities
satisfactory to IDA; and (iv) except as otherwise agreed with IDA, by April
30, 1990, coomence implementation of such desilting facilities. In addition,
an agreement has been reached with HMGU that the planning, design, construc-
tion, and the operation and maintenance of the project works would be carried
out in accordance with criteria, standards, and quality control satisfactory
to IDA.
3.20    Implementation Schedule.  Project implementation is expected to start
about September 1987. The implementation schedule (Chart 1) is based on the
profile for major irrigation projects in Nepal that have been completed
within 6 3/4 to 7 1/2 years. The implementing agency is experienced and will
have strong consultancy support. The contracts for most of the civil works
would be grouped into a large package suitable for ICB (para 4.05). The main
construction season is from November through May. During construction of the
desilting facility, the entire canal system would have to be closed through
one full dry season in the fourth year of the project. Certain activities
relating to COC improvements would be restricted to the periods the CNC is
closed, which are the only times when there is access to the main canal.
Activities such as the preparation of precast concrete elements could con-
tinue throughout the year. The rate of implementation is considered to be
within the planning, design, construction, and supervision capabilities of
the project staff (assisted by consultants) and the expected implementation
capacities of international contractors.
3.21    Midterm Review.  Experience with implementation of the Stage I
project and the extended project period has shown the need for a midterm
review. The main purpose of such a review would be to evaluate progress and
constraints during the first period of project implementation and the need to
introduce changes in project implementation plans to ensure complete achieve-
ment of project objectives. HMGW has agreed to cause the project authority
to: (i) by September 1, 1990, prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and
comments, draft terms of reference for a midterm review of the project; (ii)
taking into account IDA's comments, if any, carry out the review and furnish
a report summarizing the results to IDA by March 1, 1991 for its review and
comments; and (iii) thereafter, carry out any required adjustments to the
project subject to prior agreement with IDA.



-26-
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost Estimates
keOl    Total project costs are estimated to be the equivaXent of US$49.9 9,
including contingencies, but excluding taxes and duties from which foreign
funded projects ate exempt. The cost estimates, based on February 1987
prices, are given in Table 6, detailed in Annex 1, and summarized below:
2 Total
Z Foreign Base
kIn  Descrihtzg       L     4      sal Foruisa Soagl  Loacl gra rekig    Txchams   Costs
---(Us    -)---
A   Repairs & Improvesamts       20.8  62.2   83.0   0.9    2.8    3.7    75         9
to CRC
B   Desilting Facility on CXC    11.3  47.7   59.0   0.5    2.1    2.6    81         7
Headreach Al
C   Completion of Stage II      134.1 335.6  469.7   6.0   15.1   21.1    72        52
Area I&D Systems
D   Improvement of Stage I       15.4  54.6   70.0   0.7    2.4    3.1    78         8
Area I&D Systes2
I   Buildings                     2.9   3.6    6.    0.1    0.2    0.3    SS         1
F   Vehicles and Equipment k/     0.6 104.7  105.3   0.0    4.8    4.8    99        12
G   Incremetal 061
- Staffing                    6.2    -     6.2   0.3      -     0.3     0        1
- Naintenanee                28.2  21.1   40.3   1.3    0.5    1.8    30         4
a   Training, 161 And Studies     2.1   6.9    9.0   0.1    0.3    0.4    77         1
I   Technical Asistance r./       .3l  43.1   514    0.4 L   L 9AL1                --
Total BASElINS COSTS             229.9 670.5  900.4  10.3   30.1   40.4    74       100
Physical Contingencies          28.5  81.8  110.3   1.3    3.6    4.9    74        12
Price Contingencies             67.L  1MA3   211.1   ..L    2.9M    -  4-a 68      1
Total PROJECT COSTS              326.1 895.7 1,221.8  13.3   36.6   49.9    73      123
Di Excludes dredgers and ancillary equipment.
b/ Includes dredgers, 01 equipment, the radio-communications system and
other inor equipment.
g.I Includes consultants for detailed design of the desilting facility and
construction supevision.
The foreign exchange component would be US$36.6 M, or about 731 of total
project costs. Physical contingencies have been assumed at rates of 10-15%
on civil works, 5-101 on equipment, and 10 on consultancy services, and
represent about 121 of the base cost or 101 of the total project cost. Price
contingencies, which account for about 111 of the base cost, or about 91 of
total project cost, reflect projected inflation rates for foreign and local
expenditures over the project period, which have been taken as 2.01 in
1987/88, 1.01 in 1988/89 to 1989/90, 2.31 in 1990/91, and 3.51 in 1991/92 to
1993/94 for foreig exchange costs, and as 7.01 in 1987/88, 6.51 in 1988/89,
4.51 in 1989/90, 3.31 in 1990/91, and 3.51 in 1991/92 to 1993/94 for local
costs.



-27-
Financing
4.02    The proposed IDA credit of US$40 M would finance about 80X of total
project costs, which comprise all of the foreign exchange component and about
261 of local costs. The balance of the capital expenditures would be met by
HMGN from its development budget, for which adequate funds were allocated
under the Seventh Plan (1985-90). The balance of the recurrent
expenditures 1/ would be financed under HMGN's annual budgets. The credit
would be made to HMGN on standard IDA terms. HMGN has agreed to promptly
provide resources and funds to execute the project in accordance with the
agreed implementation program and expenditure schedules.
4.03    To initiate the work program in the first year and to continue ongo-
ing minor civil works, retroactive financing? not exceeding US$1.0 M1 would
be provided for expenditures taking place after December 16, 1986. Retroac-
tive financing would cover expenditures on: (i) spare parts for vehicles and
equipment; (ii) technical support and training programs; and (iii) prelimi-
nary works on irrigation and drainage systems and desiltation studies.
Procurement
4.04    Procurement Summary.  Procurement arrangements and costs of project
components are summarized by category in the following table:
Procurement Method
Components                        ICB        LIB a/    LCB         Other    Total
C-osts of Procurement (US$ M)________
Civil Works                      37.7         -        0.5          -         38.2
(26.5)       -        (0.3)                 (26.8)
Equipment & Vehicles              5.1        0.4        -           -          5.5
(5.1)     (0.4)                             (5.5)
Technical Support                  -          -         -          3.3 b/      3.3
-        (3.3)       (3.3)
Incremental Staff Costs            -          -         -          0.4         0.4
(0.3)      (0.3)
Incremental Maintenance            -          -    I   1.0         1.4         2.4
Costs c/                                             (0.8)       (1.2)       (2.0)
Land Acquisition                   -          -         -          0.1         0.1
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                       42.8       0.4        1.5         5.2       49.9
(31.6)     (0.4)      (1.1)      (4.8)      (37.9) d/
Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Limited International Bidding.
b/  Consultancies and services to be contracted according to Bank/IDA guidelines.
A nominal amount of training would be handled under force account.
c/ Excluding salaries and allowance.
d/ Excluding US$2.1 M, which is not allocated to specific components (Table 9).
I/ The credit would finance a proportion of incremental staffing costs and
of maintenance costs during the project period as described in pare 3.17.



-28-
4.05    HNGN has developed models of IC8 and LCB contract documents and
procedures for procurement that are under review by IDA. The project
authority is expected to adopt these models and procedures and use them in
procuring both the works and the goods under the project. Details of
procurement actions for works and goods are shown in the procurement schedule
(Chart 6).
4.06    Works.  The works to be financed under the project would cost
approximately US$38.2 N (about 75 of total cost), including physical and
price contingencies but excluding land acquisition, engineering, and
administration costs. Works for approximately US$37.7 N would be packaged
into two contracts 1/ to attract competition from large contractors and would
be procured under ICB procedures. This would promote economy and efficiency
since the contractor would be able to plan a continuous work program by
switching between activities according to the dictates of the seasons and
accessibility of the sites. LCB contracts for the buildings and rehabilita-
tion works on the CNC are estimated to cost about US$0.5 M. Prequalification
of contractors would be required for works contracts equivalent to US$1.0 M
or more.
4.07    Goods.  The equipment and vehicles 2/ to be financed under the
project are estimated at US$5.5 M, including physical and price contingen-
cies. All the goode, except some minor items (workshop tools and some mis-
cellaneous minor equipment), would be packaged and procured through two ICB
contracts, one for desilting facility equipment and the service contract
(about US$3.0 M) and one for other heavy construction equipment (about
US$2.1 M). The workshop tools and other miscellaneous equipment, estimated
to cost US$0.4 N, would be procured by limited international bidding (LIB),
under procedures that are acceptable to IDA. Tables 6 and 7 of Annex 1
itemize the goods to be procured.
4.08    Technical Sup2rt to be provided under the project comprises consult-
ing services, studies  including the desilting and water management studies),
and training. The estimated cost of this support is US$3.3 N and includes
physical and price contingencies. Consultants would be selected in accord-
ance with Bank/IDA guidelines for the employment of consultants. Interna-
tional consulting firms are expected to provide services valued at about
US$2.9 N, including physical and price contingencies, for the supervision of
the construction of project works, various design tasks and the major desilt-
ing and water mnageament studies (para 3.13). The costs of minor studies and
training are estimated to be US$0.4 K; these include studies to be contracted
1/  One contract of about US$ 3.3 N for the desilting facility and another
contract of about US$34.4 N for the other civil works.
2/ The suppliers of equipment for the desilting facility would undertake a
service contract over the project period.



-29-
with local consulting firms. A nominal amount for other training would be
provided mainly under force account.
4.09    Incremental Establishment and Maintenance Costs.  As discussed in
para 3.17, the project would support incremental establishment (staff
salaries and allowances) estimated at US$0.4 M, and incremental maintenance
estimated at US$2.4 M equivalent, under the project. The maintenance works
at the CMC head regulator, the desilting facility and minor construction work
supported under the project, estimated at US$1.4 M, would be implemented
under force account. The remaining US$1.0 M would be procured under LCB
procedures (para 4.07).
4.10    Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
US$500,000 equivalent or more and all contracts for goods and services would
be subject to standard IDA pre-action review. Such packages would account
for about 99X of the total estimated value of the civil works. Any remaining
contracts would be subject to post-action review by IDA. Standard IDA
procurement preferences would be given to domestic contractors and domestic
manufacturers.
Di sbursement
4.11    Disbursements under the credit would be made against:  (i) 851 of
expenditures on civil works, including buildings; (ii) 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for imported goods; (iii) 100l of local goods, exfactory cost; (iv)
70% of local expenditures for goods procured locally; and (v) 1001 of expen-
ditures for consultants, studies, and training. Disbursements under the
credit would be made on a declining scale against incremental establishment
costs which can be easily identified (Table 10). Disbursements under the
credit for incremental maintenance would, because of the difficulty in
separating out incremental items, be made on a declining scale against total
maintenance costs. The disbursement percentages for this item have been
adjusted, however, so that the estimated share of incremental maintenance
financed nets out to be similar to the share of incremental establishment
costs funded. The declining scales for establishment and maintenance costs
would be as follows:
Disbursement Z              Disbursement 1
HMGN's               against incremental             against total
Fiscal Year            establishment costs           maintenance costs
1987188 - 1990/91               100                          55
1991/92                          75                          65
1992/93                          S0                          45
1993/94                          25                          25
The increase in the disbursement percentage for maintenance costs in nY
1991/92 reflects the commissioning of the desilting facility (see Annex 1,
Table 5). Although the total maintenance costs would increase substantially



-30-
that year, the IDA disbursements would in effect drop from the equivalent of
just under 'he 1001 of incremental maintenance costs funded in FY 1987/88
through FY 1990/91 to around 75-80X of incremental costs.
4.12    Itemized statements of expenditure (SOE) would be used for civil
works less than NRs 500,000 (including force account works), equipment and
vehicles less than NRs 500,000, and for staff training, studies (which would
include special surveys), project establishment, and O&M costs carried out by
force account. Documentation supporting these SOEs would be retained by
project management and be available for inspection by IDA during supervision
missions and by the auditor during the annual review.
4.13    To speed up disbursements and to reduce the burden on HMGN's
Treasury, a special account (SA) of US$2.5 M would be established in Nepal
Rashtra Bank. This SA would cover all categories and it is anticipated that
most payments would be financed out of the proceeds of this account. All
expenditures from the SA would be promptly reported.
4.14    The estimated schedule of expenditures is given in Table 7.  The
estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA credit is given in Table 8, and
the proposed allocation of the credit in Table 9. The expected rate of
disbursement follows the typical disbursement profile of the Nepalese irriga-
tion sector and adjusted to allow for US$1.0 M of retroactive financing and a
SA of US$2.5 M. Disbursements are expected to be completed by March 31,
1995. Because tti desilting facilities are important for achieving overall
project objectives, after April 30, 1990, disbursements would be conditioned
upon HMGN commencing implementation of desilting facilities acceptable to
IDA.
Accounts and Audits
4.15    Project accounts would be maintained by a chief accounts officer,
who represents the Financial Comptroller General (FCG). Under HMGN rules, it
is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to rsintain, through the
offices of the FCG, all government accounts. The Auditor General (AG) is
responsible for auditing all accounts. HMGN seeks to ensure that all
accounts are maintained according to sound accounting principles and that the
scope of the audit is sufficient to evaluate the regularity, propriety,
economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of public expenditure. However, the
performance of 1HGN in fulfilling the IDA audit and accounting requirements
has been weak, and in most projects the audits of accounts have often been
late. This is partly because expenditures related to IDA-financed projects
are audited by the AG as part of the overall financial records of the
implementing government department and the AG does not release the full audit
report until it is cleared through several steps. To ensure timely com-
pliance with covenants related to auditing requirements in IDA-supported
projects, IDA has been helping project accounting staff to prepare separate
project accounts in such detail as required for audit. IDA has also proposed
the format and content of the auditor's report on accounts that can be
prepared by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, without waiting for the



-31-
full audit report of the AG on the concerned department's overall annual
financial accounts. Similar procedures are being instituted for specific
audit certification of all withdrawal applications based on statements of
expenditure. HMGN has agreed to cause DIHM and SMIDB to: (i) maintain
separate records and accounts for all project expenditures in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles; (ii) furnish to IDA the report on the SA,
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with sound
auditing principles; (iii) forward to IDA the statement of overall project
accounts, together with the auditor's reports, within 12 months after the end
of each fiscal year; and (iv) include in the annual audit reports, submitted
to IDA, a separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements
made on the basis of statements of expenditure were for goods and services
received and incurred for the purposes of the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01    Public irrigation in Nepal is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR) through its Department of Irrigation, Hydrology, and
Meterology (DIHM). The Secretary, MWR, is the chief executive officer. DIHM
is headed by a Director General (DG), usually a professional engineer
promoted from within the ranks of the DIHM organization (Chart 2).  Respon-
sibility for the implementation of most public irrigation projects financed
by external donors rests with their quasi-autonomous Boards, which consist of
representatives from the various ministries and other agencies concerned with
rural development.
Project Organization
5.02    Sunsari Morang Irrigation Development Board (SMIDB).  The SMIDB,
which was formed in 1979 to execute the Sunsari Morang Irrigation and
Drainage Stage I Project (Cr. 812-NEP), would execute the Stage II Project.
The Board is chaired by the Secretary, MWR, and has nine members, including
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance, and the
National Planning Commission, the Director Generals of DIHM and of DOA, the
Directors of the Eastern Regional Offices of DIHM and DOA, and the Project
Manager (PM) of SMIP who is the Member-Secretary. The Board's principal
functions are to: (i) approve annual budget proposals for implementing and
operating the project; (ii) appoint senior staff; (iii) award large contracts
and consultants' agreements; (iv) prepare semiannual reviews of implementa-
tion programs and progress; (v) coordinate policy matters on programing,
budget, and finance; and (vi) determine the level of water charges. As
presently constituted, the Board must approve all civil works contracts
valued at more than NRs 2.5 M (US$112,000), equipment purchase contracts
valued at more than NRs 500,000 (US$22,400), and the employment of consult-
ants.



-32-
5.03    Project Management.  The Chief Executive Officer of the project is
the Project Manager PM , w.ho is appointed by HMNW after consultation with
the Ministry of Water Resources, the Secretary of MWR, and the DC of DIHM.
The PM and heads of all divisions are located at Biratnagar. The PM is
primarily responsible for: (i) preparing the annual engineering work
program, the budget, and staff requirements for presentation to the Board;
(ii) administering project staff, including consultants; (iii) authorizing
construction by force account and civil works and equipment contracts up to
the limits of his financial authority; and (iv) coordinating all project
activities at the regional and district levels.  HlMN has agreed to maintain
in the position of PM of the SMIP at all times, an officer whose qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to IDA.
5.04    Proposed Project Organization.  The proposed project organization and
its linkages to the agricultural support services, the Regional and District
Coordinating Committees, and the farmers, is shown in Chart 3. The organiza-
tion within the project authority and the changes required in the present
situation are described below:
(a) The Finance and Administration Division would continue to function
as at present and would retain the present staff, except for the
addition of an Internal Auditor.
(b) The Construction Division would be mainly concerned with supervising
the construction of contracted civil works. The division would be
headed by an Executive Engineer (EE) who would be assisted by 3
Assistant Engineers (AE), 6 Overseers, and 12 Supervisors. The
division would also receive the support of foreign and local consult-
ants, who would be specifically appointed for the task of supervising
construction (para 3.13).
(c)   Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Divisions.  There exist, at present,
the nuclei of two OEM divisions, each having responsibility for about
half the length of the CMC and the distribution systems below the
reach of the CMC that they control. 1/ The staff of the head
regulator of CMC respond with water releases against indents from the
EEs of the divisions. The staff engaged in operations during the
irrigation seasons organize minor maintenance of the canals, as
necessary, while canals are in operation (using project labor, force
account or petty contracts), and undertake full-time maintenance
during periods the canals are closed. These general procedures would
continue, but the staffing of the divisions would be considerably
strengthened and would be divided into units with specifically
defined functions.
1/ The Stage I and Stage II area lie within the jurisdiction of the ES (06X)
responsible for the upper half of the delivery reach of the CMC.



-33-
Canal Management Units to be established in each division would have
responsibility for operating the canals from and including the CMC
down to the intakes to the chaks. The staffing of the units would
increase from nine AEs with ancillary staffs (overseers, gate
operators, dhalpas, 1/ and chowkidars) in the early stages of the
project to 14 A8s with proportionately increased ancillary staff in
the late stages of the project. In general, one AE would be respon-
sible for about 3,5OO ha of improved irrigation and drainage system
constituting a canal block (or a larger area of unimproved system),
and he would be assisted by two overseers. Typically, one gate
operator would be responsible for two gated structures, and on the
average, there would be two dhalpas per gate operator. A WUC
Organization Unit would be established within the O&M Division.  The
function of this unit would be to help the farmers establish WUGs
at the chak level and to provide advice and assistance on the layout
of field channels below the turnouts from the chak watercourses. The
unit would consist of three A8s assisted by six Overseers and 12
Supervisors and utilize the services of consultants (sociologists,
etc.) as necessary.
(d) The Water Charge Assessment Unit (WCAU), which presently exists with
a staff of one AX, two Inspectors, and 16 Amins (water charge sur-
veyors), would work in close cooperation with the O&M Division. Its
functions are described in para 6.16. However, the unit would be
strengthened by the provision of one additional Inspector and eight
additional Amins.
(e)  The Mechanical Division would be strengthened to enable it to repair
and maintain all project plant and equipment. It would be headed by
an BE (Mechanical) supported by two Aes (Mechanical) and six Over-
seers, plus a staff of mechanical technicians. The division would
have overall responsibility for and control of all heavy machinery,
and would respond to demands for necessary maintenance equipment.
The division would also be responsible for operating the dredging
equipment and ancillary machinery at the desilting facility at the
CMC headworks, including the administration of the service contract
(para 3.05).
(f)  The Monitoring and Evaluation MR) Division would be provided with
additional staff and resources. It would be headed by an EE, who
would be assisted by a Senior M&E Officer, a M&E Officer, three AEs,
five Junior Technicians, and 15 Junior Technical Assistants. The
unit would collect and evaluate data to fulfill the M&E tasks
described below (para 5.16) and would provide project management with
quarterly and annual progress reports. The M&E Division would take
general responsibility for organizing studies (paras 5.18 and 5.19);
1/ Ditch riders.



-34-
it would also be responsible for the training of project staff (para
5.13).
5.05    Staffing.  The key staff required to implement and to operate and
maintain the project are listed in Table 10. The REs required to head the
technical divisions, with the exception of the Mechanical RE and one BE for
an O&M Division, are in place. Additional technical staff will be required
primarily at the AE, Overseer, and Supervisor levels; some technicians with
mechanical skills will also be needed. HMGN has agreed to cause the project
authority to position all the project staff required to carry out the project
works for the FY 1987/88 by September 30, 1987, in a manner satisfactory to
IDA, and thereafter, assign and maintain staff in accordance with an
organizational structure and a staffing schedule to be agreed with IDA.
Water Management
5.06    Water Management Objectives.  The main objectives of the operational
plan for the project (see Annex 2 for details) are to: (i) deliver water in
a timely and equitable manner to all farmers in the rehabilitated area of
SMIP; (ii) deliver water to farms at a flow rate that ensures efficient
on-farm irrigation; and (iii) as far as possible, adapt delivery schedules to
crop water requirements.
5.07    Water Supply and Demand.  Under normal circumstances, the water
supply to the project is controlled by the capacity of the CMC, and is equiv-
alent to about 0.8 1/sec/ha at the intake, assuming that the system would
serve about 58,000 ha at full development. The water supply would be ter-
minated during scheduled maintenance closurest and the CMC may be closed for
short periods in each flood season owing to excessive silt load in the river
water.
5.08    The design cropping intensity is 178%, with 86% crop cover (mainly
rice), in the kharif season (Table 5). The irrigation water requirements at
the CMC intake for the selected cropping pattern are shown as monthly volumes
and monthly average flow rates in Table 11. The conveyance efficiency from
the CMC head to the field boundary would be about 65% during the peak demand
period. The field irrigation efficiency is taken as 65% for all crops, so
that overall project water efficiency is expected to be about 42%. In normal
years, the peak demands for serving the rice crops would occur in July,
October, and November. The farmers choose to plant a very high intensity of
rice and to gamble on the rainfall, but peak irrigation water supply will not
support the 100% kharif cropping intensity if an extended dry spell occurs
during the monsoon. The possibility of underirrigation has been taken into
consideration in estimating average crop yields. The maximum water supply at
the field would be equivalent to about 4.4 mm/day on a surface of 58,000 ha.
5.09    Operational Procedures.  The modified Stage I area system would
operate with all canals below the distributary head regulator flowing con-
tinuously at full supply level (FSL) whenever the head regulator was opened.



-35-
All chak intake structures would take water simultaneously when the dis-
tributary is operating, and the stream to each 50-60 ha chak would be in the
range of 25-30 1/sec. The chak stream would be delivered through watercour-
ses to 14 gated outlets, each serving a sub-chak of about 4 ha, and would be
rotated between the outlets over a period of 14 days, each outlet taking
water for about one day. Within outlet commands, the full chak stream would
be rotated between farmers for periods proportional to the areas of their
holdings. Maximum supply would be delivered by operating the canals for
continuous sequences of 14 days. The supply would be reduced by closing the
distributary at the end of a 14-day sequence, although it is unlikely that
such a closure could, in practice, be extended for longer than one week.
5.10    The design of the delivery system for the Stage II area would allow
the distributaries down to the minor canal offtakes to operate continuously
with regulated flows, while the minor canal would operate in an "on or off"
mode. An "on" period would be one week and "of f" periods would be multiples
of one week (in practice one or two weeks). Thus, in operation the minors
would be divided into two or three groups, with each group having
approximately equal total discharge. During an "on" period, the minors in
the active group would be run at FSL, and all on-line chak intakes would take
water simultaneously through ungated APMs. Chak sizes would generally be in
the range of 20-35 ha 1/, and the water supply to a chak during an "on"
period would be equivalent to about 1.0 I/sec/ha of the chak area (20-35
1/sec). The watercourses in the chak would extend to seven gated outlets
each serving about 3-5 ha; thus the chaks would be divided into seven
approximately equal sub-chak areas. The full chak water supply would be
allocated to each sub-chak for a period of about one day during an "on"
period. The water supply to the sub-chak would be rotated to its farmers for
periods proportional to the size of their holdings. A plan for operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage system would be prepared by the
0&M Divisions, assisted by consultants as necessary.
5.11    Water Users' Groups (WUGs).  If the water supply is to be managed
successfully, the farmers in each chak must be organized into WUGs and the
groups trained in managing rotational water supplies (RWS) at the chak level.
The Water Users' Group (WUG) Organization Unit of the O&M Division (para
5.04) would organize and train the WUGs. The chairman of a WUG would be
elected from its membership. In this respect, HMGN has agreed to establish
WUGs as follows: (i) in watercourse commands where there is already an
irrigation service by December 31, 1987; and (ii) in watercourse commands to
be brought under irrigation not less than six months before the watercourse
is scheduled to begin operation. This procedure would enable the WUG
Organization Unit to deal with a responsible body of farmers in matters
concerning rational layout design and the provision of right-of-way for
1/ Physical conditions in the command area demand that a few of the chaks
must be smaller and a few must be larger than the areas indicated, but
the actual average chak size for the entire Stage II area is about 29 ha.



-36-
farmers during the construction on field channels* 1/ The water users would
be informed of the procedures for assessment and collection of water charges,
of their legal rights, and of actions to be taken to resolve disputes or
problems relating to water supplies.
5.12    To function effectively, VUGs need statutory powers.  Therefore,  MNCO
has agreed that, by December 31, 1987, it would take all such actions as
necessary to constitute the Water Users' Groups of SNIP as statutory bodies
with sufficient rights and duties to: (i) supervise and enforce the dis-
tribution of water among its members in proportion to the size of their land
holding; and (ii) cause their members to construct and maintain the required
field channels, including field drainages adjoining their holdings and any
other section of the field channels and field drainages that does not skirt
commandable areas.
5.13    In-Service Training.  The ongoing in-service training would be sub-
stantially extended and would place special emphasis on construction supervi-
sion, quality control for irrigation and drainage systems and associated
civil works, and design and layout of field channels below the outlet. The
various training programs are detailed in Annex 4. The project field staff,
with the new positions added, would be trained in the survey procedures
needed to locate and layout watercourse systems and to set up and supervise
the activities of the WUGs. Appropriate training would be provided for canal
operators at all levels in the operation and maintenance of the system within
their required scope of work responsibilities and for WUG members in improved
irrigation techniques.
5.14    In this respect, the project authority would provide about l,5OO
man-days of training for various categories of project staff, as described in
Annex 4, Table 1. The training courses will be given at the project head-
quarters at Biratnagar. The DOA, in collaboration with the project
authority, would provide about 12,500 man-days for WUG leaders, field staff
of the extension service, and lead farmers, as detailed in Annex 4, Table 2.
The WA courses would be given at the Jhumka Training Center. Draft syllabi
for the training courses have been prepared and discussed with the project
authority and DOA. The course material would be prepared by appropriately
qualified staff of either the project authority or the DOA, with assistance
from consultants. HMCN has agreed to cause the project authority to: (i) by
January 1, 1988, furnish IDA for its review and comments an overall training
program, (ii) by January 1 of each year, commencing on January  s, 1988,
furnish to IDA for its review and comments, an annual training program,
including syllabi and course materials, for Borrower's fiscal year, and (iii)
on July 16 of each year, commencing July 16, 1988, begin implementation of
such a training program, as so agreed. In addition, provision is made under
1/ The farmers now use field-to-field irrigation for the main rice crop.
However, field channels are essential for effective distribution of water
in the dry season and are desirable for the wet season.



-37-
the project for training for dredger operation staff through a service con-
tract with the equipment suppliers (para 3.05).
Quality Control
S.15    Quality control of works under construction would be the task of the
Construction Division. The quality of construction would be monitored by
construction inspectors who would be part of the staff of the division.  The
division would be supported by consultants appointed specifically for con-
struction supervision. The division would operate a quality control
laboratory under the supervision of the international consultants,
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.16    The M&E Division would be responsible for collecting and analyzing
data on project planning, implementation, and performance, particularly with
respect tot (i) construction targets and progress; (ii) actual disbursements
on construction compared to targets; (iii) effectiveness of water management
in terms of timeliness and quantity of deliveries; (iv) operation and effec-
tiveness of WUGs in securing compliance of their members to their directives;
(v) maintenance costs; (vi) agricultural progress in changing the patterns of
land use, cropping patterns, and yields; (vii) support to the project from
ADBN, cooperatives, AIC, agricultural extension, and research; and
(viii) water charge assessing and billing by the project authority and col-
lection by the Revenue Department. The M&E activities are detailed in
Annex 5.  To undertake these tasks, the M&E staff would collect the necessary
data from the line divisions and other agencies responsible for any par-
ticular activity. To obtain the agricultural performance data required, the
M&E Division would analyze crop-cutting data routinely collected by the DOA
and by its own staff.
5.17    Progress Review and Project Reporting.  In addition, the M&E Division
would be responsible for the studies and training under the project. M&E
reports would be prepared periodically for the Board, which would compare
actual achievements with defined targets so that realistic targets could be
set for the coming year or season. In addition to preparing reports for the
Board, the K&E Division would prepare all project progress reports for
project management and IDA.  Accordingly, HMGN has agreed to cause the
project authority to: (i) furnish to IDA, until the completion of the
project, semiannual project progress reports in scope and detail acceptable
to IDA, and submit them within two months after the end of each reporting
periods commencing with the period ending January 1, 1988; and (ii) submit to
IDA, not more than six months after the completion of the project, a project
completion report in a format agreed with IDA. The semiannual report ending
July 1 of each year would include, among other things, annual review of
progress on collection of water charges (para 6.17), and expenditures on O&M.
5.18    Agro-1conomic Survey.  Agro-economic surveys of present farm prac-
tices, the cropping pattern, yields and characteristics of farm households
were carried out during project preparation. To provide a measure of



-38-
progress and to evaluate the changes in the above aspects of the farming
scene as a result of the project, the project authority, through a contracted
competent agency, would carry out agro-economic surveys about every three
years. Reports summarizing the findings of the initial and follow-up surveys
would be prepared by the project authorities for the Board's perusal. The
M&E unit would be responsible for coordinating the survey. HMGN has agreed
to cause the project authority to: (i) by June 30, 1989, conduct an
agro-economic survey of the Stage I and II areas, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, and by Septemer 30, 1989, submit to IDA for its review
and comments a report summarizing the results and conclusions of the survey;
(ii) taking into consideration IDA's comments, if any, repeat similar surveys
by June 30, 1992 and June 30, 1994 and submit by September 30, 1992 and 1994,
to IDA for its review and comments, reports summarizing the results and
conclusions of such surveys; and (iii) as a result of the above surveys, take
such action as required that would lead to increased agricultural production.
5.19    Water Management Study.  The objective of the design concepts and
operation procedures intended for both the Stage I and Stage II areas is to
introduce strict RWS in their commands. The RWS procedure is new to Nepal,
although it has been used successfully over wide areas elsewhere. It is also
to be implemented in the Narayani Irrigation project. Because of the impor-
t4nce of adopting the practical application of the design concepts and opera-
tion procedures to Ulepal's situation, a water management study would be
conducted to evaluate possible further improvements which are often iden-
tified only by practical application of water management and operational
arrangemeots such as those proposed under the project (para 3.15).
5.20    Accordingly, the project provides for a two-year water management
study. The study would be managed by the M&E Division, and data collection,
monitoring, and evaluation would be undertaken by local consultants. An
international consultant, experienced in water management, would assist the
8&E Divi8ion in supervising these monitoring and evaluation activities.  In
particular, he would provide advice on evaluating the quality and quantity of
the data collected and on formulating conclusions and recommendations. In
this respect, HMGN has agreed to cause the project authority to: (i) under-
take a study evaluating the design concepts and operation of existing and
planned systems for applying rotational water supply in the project command,
under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; (ii) by March 31, 1989, furnish
to IDA for its review and comments, a report summarizing the results and
conclu4ions of the study; and (iii) taking into consideration IDA comments,
if any, take such action as required to improve design and water management.
Agricultural Support Services
5.21    Agricultural Extension (Chart 4).  To ensure that the project would
receive effective extension support, the ADO's staff in Sunsari district
would be supplemented with an AADO for irrigation and two SMSs specializing
in irrigated agriculture who would be assigned specifically to canal com-
manded areas. The AADO and one SMS would be placed at the Duhbi subcenter
and the second SMS at the Chitaha subcenter. The AADO would be solely



-39-
responsible for supervising agricultural extension activities in the project
area and would be the main contact between DOA and the project authority.
The AADO would be assisted by two JTs, eight JTAs, and 20 PLAAs, all of whom
are presently assigned in the project area. HMGN has agreed to provide
appropriate staffing, facilities, and the other resouries required to carry
out effective agricultural extension, satisfactory to IDA, throughout the
project area. The extension services, and improvements to them, would not be
funded by this project but would be partly assisted by IDA under the Second
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1570-NEP).
Regional and District Coordination Committees
5.22    Eastern Region Agricultural Coordination Committee (ERACC).  The
ERACC currently exists to promote interagency coordination and cooperation at
the regional level. The committee is chaired by the Director of the Eastern
Region Agricultural Office, and includes the Zonal Managers of the ADBN and
AIC and the Director of the Eastern Region Irrigation Office. It is proposed
that the committee include the PM of SMIP, and a farmer representative from
the two project districts. The committee now meets twice a year (an
appropriate frequency if meetings are held after the wet and dry season
harvests) to discuss production problems experienced during the previous
season and to recommend solutions.
5.23    District Agricultural Coordination Committees (DACC).  DACC are
active in both project districts and meet approximately every month. The
committee is chaired by the ADO and its members are the District Managers of
ADBN and AIC, the PM, the District Veterinary Officer, the District Coopera-
tive Officer, the District Development Officer, and representatives of the
Sajhas and the district panchayat. The membership should be expanded to
include the AADO (Irrigation) to be appointed in Sunsari district, since it
would be appropriate to use the committees for coordinating agricultural
activities relating to the project.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOME, AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
6.01    Cropping Pattern.  Cropping patterns and yields in the "present,"
"future without, and "future with" situation under the project are given in
Table 5. No significant changes in cropping patterns are likely to take
place without the project. Under the project, the cropping pattern is
expected to change because: (i) irrigation water will be more widely avail-
able; (ii) the timing and reliability of irrigation supplies will improve;
and (iii) water management at the field level will improve. It has been
assumed that paddy would continue to be the predominant crop during the
kharif season, and that it would occupy about 84X of the CCA. Paddy grown in
the hot season would increase to about 162 of the CCA. The availability of a
reliable water supply is expected to encourage farmers to increase the area
planted with HYV paddy. Vegetable cultivation (eggplants, okra, tomatoes,



-40-
potatoes, etc.) is expected to increase in all seasons. The areas under
oilseeds and pulses in the rabi season would also increase substantially.
The cropping intensity at full development has been assumed at about 1782
compared to about 1292 now.
6.02    Crop Yields.  Only minor increases in the yields of paddy and wheat
are likely to occur in the project area in the "future without project"
situation. Without reliable water, farmers would have to continue using
risk-minimizing techniques and this would limit their capability to adopt
improved cultural practices. With the reliable water supply to be introduced
under the project, substantial increases in crop yields are anticipated
(Table 5). The yield estimates assume increases in the use of agricultural
inputs in response to the improved irrigation water supply in the project
area. However, to achieve the "future with project" yields, farmers would
need some training in on-farm water management and improved cultural prac-
tices, which would be provided under the project.
6.03    Production.  The annual incremental production at full development
calculated from the projected cropping patterns and yield increases is sum-
marized below:
Future without      Future with        Total incremental
Crop                project            poect               production
----------------- -  000 ton)           ---------
Paddy                64.9                90.4                  25.5
Wheat                  9.1               20.0                  10.9
Maize                  3.2                2.4                  -0.8
Pulses                0.8                 5.3                   4.5
Oilseeds              0.7                 3.2                   2.5
Jute                  2.5                 2.1                  -0.4
Vegetables             2.7               19.0                  16.3
Potatoes              3.0                21.4                  18.4
Sugarcane             6.9                 9.3                   2.4
Market Prospects
6.04    Difficulties are not expected to arise in the marketing of the
incremental produce. A substantial part of the produce would be consumed by
the farm households (para 2.16). The marketable surplus would be absorbed by
the growing population of Biratnagar, and other towns in the vicinity of the
project would consume some foodgrains and other crops produced in the project
area. Some of the foodgrains from the project area would also be purchased
by NFC and transferred to the deficit Hill and Mountain areas. The nearby
Indian market would be a potential buyer for foodgrains and oilseeds, and
jute would be retted in the villages before being sold as raw fiber to either
the Indian or other markets.



-41-
Prices
6.05    Poodgrain and jute prices are largely determined by prices in the
adjoining Indian markets because of good transport and comunication links
between the project area and the State of Bihar. This situation is expected
to continue, but some minor changes in crop prices can be expected during the
life of the project as a result of price changes in the international and
Indian markets. Projected economic prices assume some increases in prices of
all traded commodities. Jute prices have a 3-4 year cycle, but with slightly
increasing trend. Financial prices are subject to wide seasonal fluctua-
tions, but over the long term are expected to follow a trend similar to that
for economic prices. A large number of independent traders and agents pur-
chase about 801 of the marketable surplus directly from farmers, and in
addition, provide an important source of credit. Because many farmers lack
op-farm storage facilities and are repaying loans, they have to sell their
produce soon after harvest, when prices are generally low. Economic and
financial prices of all crops, as well as fertilizers and other inputs, are
given in Annex 7, Table 2.
Farm Incomes
6.06    The financial impact on beneficiaries of the project was analyzed
using two typical farm unit models, characterized by differences in size and
cropping pattern. The detailed analysis is presented in Annex 7, Table 3 and
summarized below:
Proportional
Increase due
1arm             Net Farm Income a/          to Project
Area       PWU       Pw    Incremental    (FNF4)Y  7 FW0
ThaY          -----(NRs) )      ---         (    )
1.4        8,675   23,156    14,481            167
3.9       20,643   49,444    28,801            140
FP0 - Future without project situation;  PU - Future with project situation.
a/ Net return to family labor and farm capital investment before tax and
water charge payments, assuming that farm implements are fully owned by
the farm family. The depreciation allowance is excluded from the input
cost.
The analysis shows significant incremental benefits to farms in the project
area. The increase for small farms of 1.4 ha in the Stage II area would be
about NRa 14,500; if the typical household is assumed to have seven members,
the per capita income would increase from about MRs 1,240 to MRs 2,070, which
would be above the poverty line, which is estimated at NRa 1,600 per capita
per year (in 1986 prices).  It is estimated that incomes from farming for
farm households cultivating more than 0.7 ha would rise above the poverty



-42-
line, whereas those below 0.7 ha, despite a substantial increase in income,
would remain below the poverty line, unless they can supplement their income
by non-farm sources.
Capital and OE& Costs
6.07    To evaluate cost recovery, the costs (expressed in February 1987
prices) have been divided into capital and O&M costs. Costs of common works
such as improvements in the CMC and the desilting facility have been appor-
tioned over the full command area of the Sunsari Morang scheme (about 58,000
ha). The capital costs expressed in present value terms 1/ are as follows:
(i) the compound value of the infrastructure constructed under the Sunsari
Morang Stage I Project (during the period 1978/79 through 1986/87) is
estimated at NRs 850 M; (ii) the present value of works, vehicles, equipment
and facilities under this project in Stage I and II areas is estimated at URs
673 M; and (iii) the present value of works after completion of the proposed
project to fully develop all the 58,000 ha command (Stage III) is estimated
at NRs 316 M. No account has been taken of works executed in the Sunsari
Morang scheme prior to 1979 (the starting of the first IDA-supported
project), which were free of charge as compensation to Nepal by India for use
of Kosi River water by India. Thus the total present value of the capital
cost for the entire command is about URs 1,840 M, or URs 31,700 per ha (about
US$1,420 per ha). The annualized capital recovery at 12% interest, dis-
counted over 50 years (life span of most of the project components) would
amount to about NRs 3,820 per hectare.
6.08    The annual expenditure on O&M at full development of the 58,000 ha to
be served by the CMC and with a desilting facility in operation would average
about NRs 330/ha/yr at present prices 2/. Of this amount, about NRs 70/ha/yr
would go toward establishment and NRs 260/ha/yr toward maintenance. The
maintenance component may be further subdivided into about URs 165/ha/yr for
maintenance to keep the CMC operational (this would cover temporary works on
Kosi River, operation of the desiLting facility, and other works on CMC), and
about URs 95/ha/yr for maintenance of the irrigation distribution and
drainage systems. Thus, achieving full cost recovery from the farmers would
entail annual payments of NRs 4,150 per hectare.
Cost Recovery
6.09    Background.  Present revenues from water-related and water charges do
not cover the cost of O&M, which imposes a heavy burden on the government
budget. The most important related charge on agriculture is the land tax
1/ At 12% interest.
2/ Operation and maintenance costs of the irrigation system with various
levels of fully developed command area through to completion of 58,000 ha
are discussed in Annex 6.



-43-
described in para 6.10 below. With respect to water charges, most of the
major irrigation schemes in Nepal are still under construction. During the
construction period, the deficit created by the discrepancy between revenue
and O&M costs has to be covered by government support, since revenue is
proportional to the developed command area while the semi-fixed element of
O&M costs is initially being applied to a smaller area than at eventual full
development. The objective is to devise a cost recovery system that would at
full development ensure sufficient revenues to cover at least the full O&M
costs and, to the extent possible, some of the capital costs. Such a
recovery system is planned for the project and takes into account experience
gained in similar irrigation projects in Nepal.
6.10    Agricultural Land Tax.  Taxes on farmland, which have remained
unchanged since 1967/68, form one means of revenue mobilization. They could
become an important vehicle for indirect recovery of public investment in
irrigation. The land taxes in the Terai--which vary from about NR8 44 to
84/ha--are charged according to type of crop, soil, and availability of
irrigation. According to the law, farmers with less than 1.0 ha pay a
nominal charge of only one rupee annually. Despite the low rates, collection
is poor, mainly because of the complexity of billing (which involves numerous
exemptions and rebates) and disputes over the grading of land. For example,
in Morang district, out of a total assessment of NRs 5.0 M in FY 1984/85,
only about NRs 1.0 M (201) was collected.
6.11    Present Water Charges.  Thus far, water charges have been introduced
in only a few donor-financed irrigation projects, including projects financed
by IDA. In 1975, HMGN increased water charges from NRs 6 to NRa 64 per
hectare cropped for all public irrigation projects in Nepal, but made only
nominal efforts to enforce collection. In 1986, HMGN simplified the water
charge system to a flat annual rate for any irrigated area and raised the
charge to NRs 200/ha/yr irrespective of the crops grown or cropping inten-
sity. The new charge system has been introduced in the project area for the
crop year starting November 1986 (the 1986/87 rabi season). Although there
has been insufficient time to fully assess the impact of the flat annual
charge, preliminary results indicate that unless further actions are taken by
the government, under the new water charge system, there may be only a
limited increase in recovery for the reasons described below.
6.12    Present Constraints to Cost Recovery.  The present poor quality of
the irrigation service is the main reason that farmers do not pay water
charges in the Sunsari Morang and in many other government irrigation schemes
in Nepal. Although a reliable service is a prerequisite to improved
recovery, it is unlikely to have a significant effect without an appropriate
collection mechanism. Present collection arrangements are unsatisfactory.
The law provides DIHM with only limited support and incentive to improve cost
recovery. Verification procedures to ascertain that irrigation water has in
fact been delivered to a farmer's field are unclear. Although the project
authorities are responsible for collecting charges, there are no ready legal
procedures for the DIHM or the Boards to enforce the collection of arrears.



-44-
6.13    Present Assessment and Collection Procedures.  The regulations
governing the assessment and collection of water charges in Nepal are set
forth in the "Irrigation, Electricity and Related Resources Act, 1968."
According to the Act, water charges are not taxes, but user fees charged to
farmers for the irrigation service. However, the law establishes only the
basic principles for assessment and collection in irrigation systems or
schemes for which there is no Board, with water charges determined by 1MGN,
and dues collected by the DIHN. In schemes controlled by a Board, such as
SNIP, the level of water charges is recommended to HMCM by the Board. HNGC
determines the rate on the basis of this recommendation. The assessment is
made by the Board, and up to 1986, the Board was also responsible for collec-
tion. Tt was believed that transferring responsibility for collection of
water charges to the Board would be a step toward making the project finan-
cially independent. However, these expectations have not materialized,
primarily because procedures for the assessment, billing, and collection of
water charges have not been clearly defined. In 1986, HNCN decided that
water charges should be collected from landowners, along with land taxes
(para 6.10), by the staff of the District office of the Land Revenue Depart-
ment (RD). Collections were to be paid into the general revenue account of
the Treasury.
6.14    Farmers' Ability to Pay Water Charges.  To assess the farmers'
ability to pay water charges, the project rent 1/ has been estimated for the
two form models (Table 14). At full development, this would average about
MRs 7,260 for the 1.4 ha farm (NRs 5,190/ha) and about NRs 16,390 for the 3.9
ha farm (NRs 4,200/ha). Although the rent would be considerably lower in the
intermediate period, the rent indicator shows that there would be scope for
increased cost recovery in the future. The farmers will have the ability to
pay the full 06t costs, which is estimated at NRs 330/ha or URs 460 for the
1.4 ha farm and NRs 1,290 for the 3.9 ha farm, respectively. Farmers should
also be able to pay eventually a significant portion of the annual capital
recovery costs. The rent resulting from irrigation is reflected by the
difference in values between irrigated and rainfed lands. Land with assured
irrigation near the CRC and on headreaches of distributary canals sells for
.about URs 130,000/ha, whereas the unirrigated land on the left bank of the
CxC is valued at about URs 70,000/ha. Land prices at the tail end of dis-
tributary and minor canals also reflect the lack of reliable irrigation and
are similar to those above the CMC.
6.15    Recovery Improvements.  Covenants for recovering 011 costs and such
portions of capital costs that lie within the farmers' payment capacity exist
in major irrigation projects supported by IDA (Nahakali, Bheirawa-Lumbini,
Narayani III, and Sunsari Morang) as well as in those supported by the Asian
Development Bank; between them, they cover over 95Z of all public irrigation
1/ The project rent is equal to the net incremental income less the neces-
sary rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship, and
cultivation risk.



-45-
schemes in the Terai. However, HKGN has difficulty in complying with these
covenants prior to providing a reliable irrigation service, the basic objec-
tive of all these projects. Therefore, any improvement in collection rates
and the imposition of realistic charges must necessarily follow the provision
of a reliable, equitable service and adequate, verifiable documentation of
deliveries. HMCN has simplified assessment procedures by introducing a flat
rate per hectare per year irrespective of the crops grown. The flat rate
eliminates the need for a detailed examination and verification of the crops
actually irrigated. This would be feasible since each farmer would have
access to the same amount of water per unit area. Rates of collection can be
expected to improve now that collection has become the responsibility of the
RD, which has the experience and the legal authority to secure payments.
6.16    Assessment and Collection.  The Water Charges Assessment Unit (WCAU)
would be responsible for assessing and preparing the billing notice in the
project area (para 5.04). Since water rates are now fixed at a flat rate per
unit area, the first task is to update the land maps and register individual
plots by ownership and area. Once this task is completed, the basis for
charging the flat rate will be available, and the only information to be
collected annually is whether the land was irrigated. When the assessment of
water charges has been completed for any year (which would encompass the rabi
season and the subsequent kharif season), the WCAU would prepare a billing
notice for each person to be charged, indicating the name of the
landowner 1/, landholding area, category or irrigation service in the rabi
and kharif season of the year assessed, and amount of the water charge.
Billing notices would then be jointly issued to payees by the project
authority and the RD, and the WCAU would ensure delivery of the notices,
either through the Ward organizations or the WUGs, no later than mid-December
each year, which corresponds with the time of the collection of the land tax.
Once the owner was billed, the RD would then collect water charges together
with land taxes. The RD has legal powers to enforce collection of arrears of
taxes (and water charges) under the Public Demand Recovery Act. To achieve
the above objectives, HIMN has agreed to cause the project authority and the
Land Revenue Department to adopt, by August l, 1988, procedures for assess-
ing, billing, and collecting water charges satisfactory to IDA.
6.17    To ensure that irrigation development under the project does not
continue to be a burden on the government budget, HMGN has agreed to: (i)
charge and collect no less than the flat rate of MRs 200/ha/yr on all
irrigated land in the Sunsari Morang Irrigation Scheme in which the irriga-
tion and drainage system have been improved; (ii) commencing from July 15,
1988, and in each year thereafter, review performance of the collection of
water charges in the project area, and promptly after such reviewp furnish to
IDA the results; and (iii) commencing from August 31, 1989, and every two
years thereafter: (a) review and, if required, revise the collection proce-
dures of water charges in the project area; and (b) adjust, as required, the
I/ Landowners pay the water charges for their tenants' land.



-46-
rates of water charges to cover the full costs of operation and maintenance
of the project on a pro-rata basis for 58,000 ha, and a reasonable portion of
capital expenditurest taking into account the farmers' payment capacity.
6.18    Estimated Rent and Cost Recovery.  Although the exact level of water
charges that would be applicable at full development cannot be predicted at
this time, indicative minimum revenue projections for the project have been
based on the following assumptions: ti) the present flat rate of
NRs 200/ha/yr would be charged in completed irrigation blocks provided with
a reliable irrigation supply; and (ii) assessments would be fully collected.
Under these assumptions, the cost and rent recovery indices are estimated at
a minimum of 7% and 5-7X, respectively.l/ With water charges adjusted by
end-August 1989 (para 6.17 above) to cover at least prorated O&M costs, the
recovery indices would increase to 10% and 8-10%, respectively (Table 14).
Although it should be feasible to charge higher water rates to project
beneficiaries (and begin to offset an increasing portion of capital costs),
the possibility of achieving this will be limited until the irrigation serv-
ice in the Sunsari Morang command area becomes timely, reliable, and equi-
table.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Impact
7.01    General.  Under the project, agricultural production would expand,
employment would rise, underemployment would decline, farm family benefits
would improve, and the value added to the national economy would increase,
as summarized as follows:
1/ The range in the index expresses difference in farm size intensity and
profitability.



-47-
Stage I    Stage II
Area        Area         Total
Irrigated area (ha)                              9,750       16,700      26,450
Incremental foodgrain production (ton/yr)        8,060       31,920      39,980
Incremental oilseed production (ton/yr)            600        1,870       2,470
Directly benefiting farm families (no.)          5,000        8,560       13,560
Generated farm employment (man/yr)                 700        2,400        3,100
Value added to the economy (NRs M/yr) a/            62.8        162.5        225.3
a/ In terms of net return, defined as gross farm return less cash expenses
on inputs less value of family own resources used (labor and draft
animal).
7.02    Employment.  The project is expected to generate employment oppor-
tunities through: (i) construccion works; (ii) the expansion and inten-
sification of agricultural production, which would also reduce underemploy-
ment; and (iii) agrobusiness activities such as marketing, transport, and
processing. It is estimated that the labor to be employed during the
seven-year construction of the project would average about 7,000 jobs per
day. 1/ Labor requirements for crop production are expected to increase from
135 man-days/ha at present to about 160 man-days/ha at full development.
Thus the project is expected to create about 3,100 additional full-time farm
jobs.
Economic Analysis
7.03    The benefit and cost streams assumed in the analysis are detailed in
Annex 7 and summarized in Table lSa and 15b. The first situation tested
(Table 1Sa) assumes that no further development would take place in the
command area of the Sunsari Morang after completion of the proposed project.
The second situation (Table 15b) includes estimated costs and benefits assum-
ing that a third stage would take place to fully develop all 58,000 ha which
can be commanded under the Sunsari Morang scheme. In both situations, the
benefit stream includes incremental agricultural benefits (net of on-farm
production costs). The cost stream for the proposed project includes: (i)
all direct investments for civil works, including improvement of the CMC,
completion of Stage I area (9,750 ha), and the development of Stage II area
(16,700 ha); (ii) equipment, buildings, and facilities for )&M; (iii)
incremental establishment and maintenance costs; (iv) consultant services,
training and studies; and (v) other management-improvement and institu-
tion-strengthening expenditures. The cost stream for full development of
58,000 ha assumes that the remaining command area (31,550 ha) after comple-
tion of the proposed project would be completed over a seven-year period.
1/ Based on 200 working days per year.



-48-
7.04    Economic prices used in the analysis are detailed in Annex 7,
Table 2. For traded commodities (including fertilizers), prices were derived
from IBRD projected world market prices (1987/88, 1990, and 1995) with
adjustments for quality, freight, insurance, handling, local transport, and
processing. For nontraded commodities, adjustments were made to the finan-
cial prices to eliminate the effect of direct transfer payments (taxes,
subsidies and credit). The shadow price of agricultural labor was assumed to
be about 90X of the going wage rates for hired labor. Other production costs
were valued by applying specific conversion factors to financial costs.
Benefit build-up in the "future with project" situation would be the result
of the assumed phasing of areas that are to come under irrigation, a
five-year transition from present to future cropping intensities, and a
five-year build-up of yields. The economic costs of all civil works, equip-
ment, land acquisition, administration, and engineering have been derived
from the financial costs, adjusted by conversion factors.
7.05    Evaluating the costs and benefits over a 30-year period, the
estimated economic rates of return (ERR) and net present values (NPV) for the
project components and the total project are as follows:
Areas Developed                    ERR          PV   1/
Stage I and II areas                     21         512
Stage I, II and III areas                21         677
1/  At a discount rate of 12X.
7.06    In order to evaluate past project investment decisions, sunk costs of
the project, invested in Stage I during the 1978/79 through 1986/87 were
included, providing the following results:
Stage Is II and III Areas     Stage I and II Areas
ERR                          14%                         13X
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
7.07    Project Sensitivity. To measure the impact of possible changes in
the economic environment on the project's stream of benefits and costs,
several sensitivity tests were performed. The change in ERR was estimated
for the overall project and the main components against changes in the key
assumptions, with the following results:



-49-
Stage I, II         Stage I and
Variable Tested                        and III Areas         II Areas
_ n__M()----
Best Estimate                               21                   21
Costs up 20%                                18                   18
Benefits down 20X                           17                   18
Costs up 50%                                15                   15
Benefits down 501                           11                   11
Cost up 20X Benefits down 201               15                   15
Benefits lag by 2 years                     16                   16
Benefits lag by 3 years                     15                   15
In addition, the switching value of the assumed benefits and costs was calcu-
lated to assess what change in these variables would reduce the discounted
present value of the net benefits (at 12% discount rate) to zero:
Stage I, II and III Areas
Variable Tested        Appraisal Value    Switching  Value    Change in X
---e------- (Rs N)-----------
Net Incremental Benefits         1,530                853              -44
Incremental Costs                 853               1,530               79
The sensitivity analysis indicates that only very large changes would make
the project unviable.
7.08    Risks Analysis.  Possible risks that could affect the achievement of
project objectives include inadequate desiltation provisions, inadequate
water management, insufficient funding for O&M, and delays in implementation.
These risks would be addressed in various ways. With regard to the desilta-
tion problems, HNMG has indicated its determination to resolve them but has
expressed its preference for nonmechanical solutions. Studies to identify
feasible nonmechanical solutions would be concluded by the end of the second
year of project implementation (para 3.05). If the studies indicate that
there is no effective nonmechanical solution, HMCN would implement the
already identified mechanical solution. To help minimize any remaining risk
of delay implementation, disbursements after April 30, 1990, would be contin-
gent upon HMCN's having initiated implementation of a satisfactory desilta-
tion facility (para 4.14). With regard to water management, automatic stream
dividers would be installed to replace the traditional gates (para 5.10),
thus minimising the need for operators; the distribution system would be
extended closer to the farm gate; and WUGs would be strengthened and given
specific responsibilities (paras 5.11 and 5.12). The reliable and equitable
irrigation service would increase farmers' willingness to pay for water.
With regard to O&M, HMNG would review the proposed O&M budget with IDA
annually (para 3.18); also, the assessment and collection procedures for
water charges would be rationalised and the level of charges linked to O&M
costs (paras 6.16 and 6.17). Finally, on implementation, delays in project
implementation may constitute a risk that needs to be considered. To reduce



-50-
this rijk, however, tender documents for the main contracts were ready at
appraisal (para 3.19), the main works are to be let under a single ICB con-
tract, and experienced contractors with proven ability will be available to
perform effectively under local conditions.
Environmental Effects
7.09    The project area has been under wet season cultivation for decades,
and expansion of the irrigated area and introduction of irrigation improve-
ment in the dry season are not expected to produce a significant change in
environmental conditions. The main water-related diseases on the Terai are
malaria and typhoid. The latter relates to drinking water, but the project
would have little direct impact on the supply. Improvements to the drainage
system would result in less ponding of wastewater, but given the prepon-
derance of rice paddies in the wet season (both with or without the project),
this would not effectively reduce mosquito breeding sites in the kharif. In
this respect, HMGN has agreed to take all the necessary measures to minimize
the risk of malaria and other water-related diseases within the project area.
The silt removed from the desilting facility would be returned to the Kosi
River, and this would not materially affect the silt load carried by the
river water. The limited use of plant protection chemicals and the level
of chemical fertilizer anticipated to apply in the future "with project"
situation would be carefully recommended by the extension service and would
not adversely affect the quality of water or soils. The methods proposed for
canal maintenance do not include chemical control of weed growth.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
.8.01    Under the agreements reached with HMGN, it would:
(a) by July 1, 1988, issue the necessary authorization and permits to
commence operation of the radio-communication system (para 3.12);
(b) cause the project authority to employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are satis-
factory to IDA, and select them in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines on employing consultants (para 3.13);
(c) cause the project authority to: (i) by March 31 of each year, com-
mencing on March 31, 1988, and thereafter, furnish to IDA, for its
review and comments, estimates of project operation and maintenance
costs for the forthcoming fiscal year such that establishment
(salaries and allowances) and maintenance costs can be identified by
project components; and (ii) taking into account IDA's comments, if
any, make the required budgetary allocations to adequately cover such
costs (para 3.18);



-51-
(d) cause the project authority to: (i) carry out studies to determine
an efficient method for protecting the irrigation distribution sys-
tems in the project area against siltation under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA; (ii) by November 30, 1988, furnish to IDA for
its review and coments a detailed report of the results and conclu-
sions of such studies; (iii) by July 31, 1989, taking into account
the results of the studies and IDA's comments, if any, complete the
detailed designs, plans and a timetable for implementing desilting
facilities in the project area satisfactory to IDA; and (iv) except
as otherwise agreed with IDA, by April 30, 1990, commence implementa-
tion of such desilting facilities (para 3.19);
(e)  cause the project authority to ensure that the planning, design,
construction, and operation and maintenance of project works are
carried out in accordance with criteria, standards, and quality
control satisfactory to IDA (para 3.19);
(f) cause the project authority to: (i) by September 1, 1990, prepare
and furnish to IDA for its review and comments, draft terms of
reference for a midterm review of the project; (ii) taking into
account IDA's comments, if any, carry out the review and furnish a
report summarizing the results to IDA by March 1, 1991 for its review
and comments; and (iii) thereafter, carry out the required adjust-
ments to the project subject to prior agreement with IDA (para 3.21);
(g)  promptly provide resources and funds to execute the project in
accordance with the agreed implementation program and expenditure
schedules (para 4.02);
(h)  cause the DIHM and SMIDB to:  (i) maintain separate records and
accounts for all project expenditures in accordance with appropriate
accounting principles; (ii) furnish to IDA the report on the Special
Account (SA), audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in
accordance with sound auditing principles; (iii) forward to IDA the
statement of overall project accounts, together with the auditor's
reports, within 12 months after the end of each fiscal year; and (iv)
include in the annual audit reports submitted to IDA a separate
opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursement made on the
basis of statements of expenditure were for goods and services
received and incurred for the purposes of the project (para 4.15);
(i) at all times, maintain in the position of Project Manager of SMIP
an officer whose qualifications, experience, and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to IDA (para 5.03);
(j) cause the project authority to position all the project staff
required to carry out the project works for the FY 1987/88 by Septem-
ber 30, 1987, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, and thereafter, assign
and maintain staff in accordance with an organizational structure and
a staffing schedule to be agreed with IDA (para 5.05);



-52-
(k) cause the project authority to establish Water Users' Groups as
follows: (i) in watercourse commands where there is already an
irrigation service by December 31, 1987; and (ii) in watercourse
commands to be brought under irrigation not less than six months
before the watercourse is scheduled to begin operation (para 5.11);
(1) by December 31, 1987, it would take all such actions as shall be
necessary to constitute the Water Users' Groups of SNIP as statutory
bodies with sufficient rights and duties to: (i) supervise and
enforce the distribution of water among its members in proportion to
the size of their land holding; and (ii) cause their members to
construct and maintain the required field channels including field
drainages adjoining their holdings and any other section of the field
channels and field drainages that does not skirt commandable areas
(para 5.12);
(m)  cause the project authority to:  (i) by January 1, 1988, furnish to
IDA for its review and comments an overall training program; (ii)
by January 1 of each year, commencing on January 1, 1988, furnish to
IDA for its review and comments, an annual training program, includ-
ing syllabi and course materials, for the Borrower's fiscal year; and
Wii) on July 16 of each year, commencing July 16, 1988 and there-
after, begin implementation of such a training program as so agreed
(para 5.14);
(n) cause the project authority to: (i) furnish to IDA, until the comple-
tion of the project, semiannual project progress reports in scope and
detail acceptable to IDA, and submit them within two months after the
end of each reporting period, commencing with the period ending
January 1, 1988; and (ii) submit to IDA, no more than six months
after the completion of the project, a project completion report in
the format agreed with IDA (para 5.17);
(o) cause the project authority to: (i) by June 30, 1989, conduct an
agro-economic survey of the Stage I and II areas, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and by September 30, 1989, submit to
IDA for its review and comments, a report summarizing the results and
conclusions of the survey; (ii) taking into consideration IDA's
comments, if any, repeat similar surveys by June 30, 1992 and June
30, 1994 and submit by September 30, 1992 and 1994, to IDA for its
review and comments, reports summarizing the results and conclusions
of such surveys; and (iii) as a result of the above surveys, take
such action as required that would lead to increased agricultural
production (para 5.18);
(p) cause the project authority to: (i) undertake a study for evaluating
the design concepts and operation of existing systems for applying
rotational water supply in the project command, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA; (ii) by March 31, 1989, furnish to IDA



-53-
for its review and comments a report summarizing the results and
conclusions of the study; and (iii) taking into consideration IDA's
comments, if any, take such action as required to improve design and
water management (para 5.20);
(q) provide staffing, facilities, servicest and the other resources
required to carry out effective agricultural extension, satisfactory
to IDA, throughout the project area (para 5.21);
(r) cause the project authority and Land Revenue Department to adopt,
by August 1p 1988, procedures for assessing, billing, and collecting
water charges satisfactory to IDA (para 6.16);
(s) cause the project authority to: (i) charge and collect no less than
the flat rate of NRs 200/ha/yr on all irrigated land in the Sunsari
Morang Irrigation Scheme in which irrigation and the drainage system
have been improved; (ii) commencing from July 15, 1988, and in each
year thereafter, review performance of the collection of water char-
ges in the project area, and promptly after such review, furnish to
IDA the results; and (iii) commencing from August 31, 1989, and every
two years thereafter; (a) review and, if required, revise the collec-
tion procedures of water charges in the project area; and (b) adjust,
as required, the rates of water charges to cover the full costs of
operation and maintenance of the project on a pro-rata basis for
58,000 ha and a reasonable portion of capital expenditures, taking
into account the farmers' payment capacity (para 6.17); and
(t) take all necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria and other
water-related diseases within the project area (para 7.09).
Recommendations
8.02    With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a credit of US$40.0 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be His
Majesty's Government of Nepal.



-54-                                          Table 1
EPU.~~~~
_WRI mm   iUISTION it PRECT
mm#1 - Productti    f Principal Crops
A. to Physical Tros
....... ..........__
Cw                     UNIT        1t94/45  19S7/75  1979/80  M9e0/t9  191/2  1982183  1904/15  1985/86
...._.. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ...   ....       
Fond Sraias
Paddy      Are         '000 ha        1,101    1,240    1,254   1,276    1,297    1,285    1,317    1,391
Production  'o0e tor      2,202    2,452    2,060    2,464    2,50    1,633   2,709   2,005
Yi#ld      t/W             2.00     I.9      1.64     1.S3    1.97     1.45    1.9       2.02
RaIze      Area        '000 ha          437     450      432      457      475      511      59      615
Productioa  '000 too        652       27     554      143      752      713      Bi9      974
yield      t/be            1.5      1.90     t. 2    1.62     1.58     1.41     1.42     1.42
beat       Area        '0co h           100      291     367      m        400      464      450     483
Productio  '000 ton         126      331      440     477      5U       U5       520      5S9
Yield      tha              .36     1.14     1.20     1.22    1.32      .36     1.16     1.24
Drlay      kre         '000 h            24       29      26       27       27       24       20      29
Pwduction  '000 to           26      2U        23      23       23       21       23       23
Yield      t/ha            1.08     0.93    O.90     0.96    0.96    0.37    0.85        0.80
lillet     Ara         '000 ha           96      125     123      122      122      129      134     151
Production  '000 ton         63      140      1I1     222      122      121      12       136
Yield      tMh             0.66     1.12     0.97    1.00     1.0      0.94     0.93     0.91
Total Food
rains    Area         '000 ha        1,758    2,142    2,202    2,274    2,321    2,413    2,588    2,668
Production  '000 ton      3,269    3,776    3,1S6    3,929    3,9S3    3,30   4,I95    4,430
__ _ _____ _ _ .. .. . _._ ........_ .  _.__........ __..._.__._
tah Crops
Suacae   Area          '000 h9 S                  15      23       24       25       25      20       23
Prduction  '000 ton         126      251      304      43      590      619      457      550
Yield      tlha            4.00   1U.54    16.63    20.02   23.4    24.23    23.45    24.27
Oil 5eas  Area         '000 ha          10O      112     110      122      114      110     124      138
Prokction  '000 to           51       66       62      77       N        69       13       79
yield      th              0.47     0.59    0.52     0.63    0.69    0.63    0.6        0.7
Jute       Area        '000 h            32      34       57       52       35       30      27       47
Production  000 ton          39       41       68      59       43       39       33       61
Yield      tha             1.22     1.21     1.19     1.14    1.21     1.28     1.22    2.00
Potatoes   Area        '000 h            29      54       51       50       52       59      66       70
Prodction  '000 ton         116      307      279     275      320      373      422      357
Yiold      t/ba            6.41     5.72     5.42    5.55     6.15    6.30    6.41      5.10
To acco    Are          000h to          0        7        a        7        7       9        9        9
Production  '0  ton           4        5        6       5        5        7        7        5
yield      t/k.            0.50    0.71     0.73    0.76    0.70    0.74    0.76    0.54
Total Cnh
Crop      Area        '000 h           1 96    m2       257      255      233      233     246      297
D. Ind   (1976177  1005
Foodraia  Area             -             00              to 100   102      104      105      II     120
Production     -             78      103      es      10       107       02      112      117
Cad Crop   Ara             -             02      99       112     109      107      507     114      1I5
Production     -             76      101      I        113     129      142      120      156
Sowrce: Ecomc Survey July I905, 10191 Rnistr  of Finae



-55-                                Table 2
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Salient Climatic Data a/
Monthly Temperatures   b/
Mean     Mean       Monthly
Daily    Daily      Relative       Monthly Mean Rainfall  c/   Wind
Month        Mean  Maximum  Minimum    Humidit  b/   Mean  Maximum  Minimum    Velocity d/
_________----               M           --------- (}_____mm) --------  k-mihr)
January         16.1   23.4       8.8         90            8       24        0          3.9
February        18.5   26.1      10.8         82            8       23        0          4.8
March          22.8   31.1       14.5         60           20       73        1          6.5
April          27.3   33.9      20.6          59           43       85        0          7.7
May            27.8   32.8       22.8         60          171      272       51          7.4
June           28.7   32.5      24.9          81          276     522       126          1.3
July           28.5   31.6      25.4          86          556     682       362          5.1
August         29.0   32.2      25.6          84          274     486        64          5.9
September      28.0   31.5      24.4          84          271     462       121          5.2
October        25.8   30.9       20.7         80           75      217        1          3.9
November       21.7   28.5       14.8         81           14       74        0          3.4
December        17.3   24.9       9.6         87           13       38        0          3.0
Annual
Average                                      78        1,729
a/ Measured at Biratnagar Airport (1973-1982).
hi Record for 1973-82.
c/ Record for 1976-85.
d/ Measured at Tarahara Agricultural Station (1976-1979).
Source: Climatological Records of Nepal and airport file data.



Table 3
-56-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
A. Monthly Flows on Kosi River (1950-1975) a/
Mean Monthly Flow over 25 Years
Month              Average             Maximum            Minimum
------------------ m7'sec----------~---------
January               398                  482              366
February              355                  457              266
March                 352                   451             274
April                 418                   546             334
May                   721                 1,146             536
June               29097                 3,991            1,238
July               4,013                 6,668            2,648
Au$ust             4,758                 6,980            3,133
Sedtember          3,437                 4,805            2,484
October             1,740                3,288              889
November              836                1,035              613
December              532                  656              446
B. Annual Discharge on Kosi River (1950-1975) a/
Average                               Minimum
-  -m  x 10 -----
53.47                65.17            45.39
a/ Flows recorded at the Indian operated gauging station at Barahakshetra,
5 km upstream of CMC intake structure.



57                                  Table 4
NEPAL
SUN8ARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Importation of Suspended Bed Material a/
From Kosi River to CMC
Mean Load in       Mean Diversion
Month           River Water b/    Recwirement           Imported Sedi!nt
(ppm)          -W/msec)              ton         W) c/
January             100                  27.0            7,230     4,990
February            100                  22.5            5,460     3,770
March               100                   9.2            2,470     1,700
April               150                  38.5           14t970    10,320
May                 300                  35.9           28,850    19,900
June              1,040                  25.2          67,930    46,850
July i            3,100                  45.3         376,130   259,400
August            3,750                  40.6         407t780   281t230
September        2,300                   34.5         205,670   141,840
October             750                  24.8          44,800    34,340
November            300                  31.1          24,180    16t680
December            120                  24.0           7,720      5,320
1t,193,190   826,340
Say     800,000
a/ Defined as > 63 microns.
b/ Measured at Barahakshatra, 5 km upstream of CMC intake (1950-1975).
c/ Bulk density - 1.45.



-58-                                  labla 5
NEAL
SUNSARI MMOANG IRRIATIOQN 11 PROJECT
CronpRin Patterns and Yields
CrOnina Patterns                    Crop Yields
Season             Present and          Future                  Future    Future
and, Cray           Future Witbsut        With        Proesst   Witbout    with
--------(Z of cCA)- (t/ha)----------
A.  Stake I Area (9.750 ha)
Main Paddy              84               84           2.9        3.0        3.4
Vegetables a/            I                2L         14.0       17.0       24.0
85               86
kak
Wheat                   23               28           2.1        2.3        2.7
Pulses                   8               18           0.8        0.8        1.0
Oilseeds                10               15           0.6        0.6        0.8
Potato                 41                4.          14.0       17.0       24.0
42               64
Early Paddy             11               16           2.8        3.0        3.5
Maize                    6                3           2.0        2.4        3.0
Gram                     -                2            -          -         1.0
Jute                     7                5           1.4        1.4        1.6
Vegetables               -                I            -          -        24.0
24               27
erennial
Sugarcane I/             1                1          28.0       28.0       35.0
1                1
CroDRina Intensity   152                178
B. StaQe II Area (16.700 ha)
Kbarif
Main Paddy              84               84           2.4        2.5        3.4
Vegetables              a                 2           8.0        8.0       24.0
85               86
aki
Wheat                   17               28           1.4        1.5        2.7
Pulses                   2               18           0.7        0.7        1.0
Oilaeeds                 2               15           0.5        0.5        0.8
Potato                   I                3.          8.0        8.0       24.0
22               64
Early Paddy              8.              16           1.6        1.7        3.5
Maize                    6                3           1.6        1.8        3.0
Gram                     -                2            -          -         1.0
Jute                     7                5           1.3        1.3        1.6
Vegetables   .           -                1            -          -        24.0
21               27
Perennial
Sugarcane                1                1          25.0       25.0       35.0
1                1
Croonina Intensity   129                178
Ai  Vegetables are a blend of leaf, tuber and fruit vegetables, hence the
yield is notional.
if  Sugarcane occupies the land for the full year.



5BM N_I lIWAmIU  11 U
s", b .0 ,,.,/a
Snow,v Acommt lu. Project Covww-Iat
REPAIRS S     MSILTINS     WLETIO OF NODFICATII2NS 10 TRAlINIANGD                                        Cintiaenies
IIV'ME   TO tMl VSAU II me 1   I  STARI meAnIE             PECIMAL    WU U o     CSITWI _
cmc     tClC 1A01O  in SYSTI           sl1u15        SMIES   MIItIomIC  /a   RNISIUN    Tow            Z   AtSA
_-u=    ==  1.~    I                                     =                ==            =_            =            =
It. IESNT COSTS
A. LND ImISITII .                                 -            -       2,250.0           250.0           -             -           -     2,500.0 11.0   275.0
D. tIviL Pn
1. CftRIT5                               83*066.0     59.043,0    467,415.0        69,750.0           -             -           -   679274.0 13.0 8,W0.5
2. ILDIISIS                                    -1            -            -               -           -        6,500.0           -     6,500.  10.0   650.0
3. FOMuE RECIUN                                -             -            -               -           -       40.300.0          -    40.300.0 15.0  6041.0
SibTw  CII a                                83.9066O     59,043.0    467.415.0        69,50-0                    46,.0        -        726074.9 13.1 94762.5
t. EWIPIT  I #UIOES                               -      61167.0             -               -           -       44.099.0          -   1059266.0  7.6  8,020.0
0. TEM. ASISMICE I TRAIN
1. CliMItES                                    -            -                             -      8,400.0                  51.342.0   59742.0 11.2  6,664.2
2. TEQI. MSSIST, FOR T141B1                    -             -            -               -       60.0                          -        00.0  00 0..0                 t
S T    E. T      ISTAf I t 1                      -            -             - -                   9,000.0             -     51,342.0    0,32.0 11.0  6,664.2
E. ESTAILIUENT                                                                               -           -        6,243.0          -     6243*0 1.0   624.3
Total 01ImE    mm                             83,066.0    1209,210.0,    4696465.0       70,000O.0    9.00.0       97,142.0    51.342.0   900425.0 12.3 110,345.9
Total SAELDE CtMS                              83.066.0    1204210.0    469,665.0         70,000.0     9,000.0      97.142.0    51.342.0    0A425.0 12.3 110.345.?
PMical C -tiviuos                            11,764.0     11162363     58052.6         109512.5      1.530.0      11,729.2     5,134.2   110.345.9  0.0     0.0
MMic COOUAImwies                             11.807.6     27709*5      120,403.9       15.6U2.2      1.539.9      22s,52.8    11,389.4   211.105.4 10.9 23,004.5
0otal FRDJECt CoB                              1066.5       159542.      648,121.7        96h14.7    12M069.9      131.454.0     6.865.6 1.221.876.3  10.9 1339350.4
Foreign ExdAo                                79,535.4    11729        460.36.7         74t183.5     9341.6        76135.t    56457.1   895.750.1  10.9  7342.1
/a See Annex 1 for detailed cost tables.



IoUmo         S Odoml  f bpn1_       /a
Tota lad"uM btldas                                                         Totas 1twig" Cimlss
(U  e)                                                                     an   O)
m/im  nunw   srw            9wn 1m  1     1  aminawa              Totad      w   ms  t/11 0     1519" 190t9  11n1 2 11219   "M14 Total
m * - m - 3 3 m4- -  -                                                                                                              - 
IL fpm      w o Igm,A UCIC24,90.3  61#410.3 2b9321.3               -        -                      106,117.5  1S19.?  2#25,3    927.            -                           -45224
3. I      S F4lLMlI S CNC N                                 - 26*354 123,3.7  1U5RF.0  1,34.3  1,1.5  LV*,a                              -  10.1  5 .?           13.7      5659     SW   6.4 .6
C. emu=        IE  m11 AM   to onS                 - 59,916..7135.3 W4P29.7 1WA,. 10S3 .2               _     "101217          -  254*9  643.0 h52.3  6#711.3  4o10.l                  - 26*31.7
3. NIIVIY l     S ST   I OM  1135l 3               - 13951.0  3S3013 4341C                  -   -         -   1      .?        -    W7.9        6.8  1.952.4        -         -        - 3,9171
E. 15111115     514 I 1USD                   206.1  5,319.0  3h762.5    413.9         0.0    102.2      2.6   12.s9?         No.8    22.2     152       16.7      4.0       4.1     14.2   506.2
F. 6913133 U  10U1E                         12,442 51.911.1 7P034  7,134.0 t173237.0  17U6.6  17o,6649.2  1314.0*    535.3  2#*6    3160    37.0    69.5    607.3    712.3 5447.7
6. min        up U 95113                     *31.*  9*.94  U11,96*3  395 0  911.2  tS19.1   B9.                4754         47.3    41.4    3.6    360.1    310.9    33.3    35.9 2#70.0
Totl  h T  M513                               4934*? 2536.9 20,35.1 W/hW49 1"9 1*6 131,910S 2813.7 1,221,63   2P152.0  3,53.3  106219 14.3125  7?089  5,321.3  19154.6 499V*53
_.    - _ramr                                             -                        2                 o
/6,S"_Xfe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-61-                            Table 8
NEPAL
SUNSARTI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ 14)
IDA Fiscal Year                  During
and Semester                    Semester                  Cumulative a/
1988
1st                           3.5                         3.5
2nd                           1.1                         4.6
1989
lst                           1.4                         6.0
2nd                           1.8                         7.8
1990
lst                           2.2                        10.0
2nd                           2.8                        12.8
1991
1st                           3.0                        15.8
2nd                           4.6                        20.4
1992
Ist                           5.3                        25.7
2nd                           4.6                        30.3
1993
1st                           3.0                        33.3
2nd                           2.5                        35.8
1994
1st                           1.9                        37.7
2nd                           1.4                        39.1
1995
1st                           0.6                        39.7
2nd                           0.3                        40.0
Completion Date: September 30, 1994
Closing Date: March 31, 1995
a/ Based on disbursement profile for IDA supported irrigation projects in
Nepal and adjusted to allow for US$1.0 4 of retroactive financing and
a SA of US$2.5 M.



-62-
NIPL
SUNSA&RI NMORAG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Projiet Credit Allocatiou
Proposed
Allocation           X of Expenditure
Item  of-Credit      to be Financed
--U8$ M--
Awae y
1. Works contracts A/              26.8               85Z
2.  Equipment & vehicles kI         5.5              }100X of foreign expenditures;
)100X of local expenditures
}(ex-factory); 702 of other
)locally procured items.
3. Technical Support
a. Consultants and Studies    2.9                 100%
b. Training                    0.4               1OOX
4.  Incremental Staff Costs         0.3              }100  in FY 1987/88 to
}FY 1990/91; 752 in FY 1991/92;
}50X in FY 1992/93; and 25Z in
}FY 1993/94.
5.  Maintenance Costs c/            2.0              }55X in FY 1987/88 to FY 1990/91;
}65% in FY 1991/92; 45% in
}FY 1992/93; and 25% in FY 1993/94.
6.  Unallocated                     2.1
Total                         40.0
l/ Excluding equipment and vehicles under category 3; including buildings.
kl kIncluding the service contract for the dredgers (para 3.11).
.£/ For administrative ease, disbursements for incremental maintenance will
be made against total maintenance costs as described in para 4.11.



-63-                                                A
StUSARI HOUSESNL_ KU lCA     is PIO
Pr~esent
fliyan  and Staf  CAUR00                                  I=          A"U LOLIL  ILLa 112111    21.9k
L   PaIESL.I bmf                                   I         I       I        I        1       I        1        1
A. tc   "Lis Di
5 lnanea and AAniaiaggLtraLAn iviaia
Ict tslAC   tet                                                                                             I 1  1  1  1  1  1  1
Chief ceout"                       I        1~1      1        1        1       1        1        1
Seieo  Accountant                             2         2        2        2       2        2        2       2
Sectioa Ottic.r                               2         2        2        2       2        2        2       2
Ottfie hAsiteaut                              9         9        9        9       9        9        9       9
Accont"t                                      4         4        4        4       4        4        4       4
Juniot Ottice Asstitaut                       6         6        6        6       6        6        6       6
Aesist.at Aceosategt                          2         2        2        2       2        2        2       2
C.                ain
zoautho 1. ia*t                               -         I        1        1       1        *        I       1
hAsistant 3nsim.t                             5         3        3        3       3        3        3       2
Oveset                                       12         6        6        6       6        6        6       4
SopenceWo                                    18        12       12      12       12       12      12        8
D.           __nta   ndMitnna   iilal
eative, u    iaes                             1         2        2       2        2        2        2       2
hAssitet tise.                                9        11       12       13      13       14       14      14
ow""v e                                      20        22       24      25       26       27       as      2S
Gte Oprtetor                                 54        32       35       34      40       42       44      46
Ublpa                                        93        77       8D      03       66       8a       90      92
Cbhkidir                                      4         4        4        4       4        4        4       4
2. IIW Oainaiktioan Dolts
AssistaZt sIiaat                              -         3        3        3       3        3        3       3
Ovt"er                                        -         6        6        6       6        6        6       6
Supervisor                                    -        12       11       12      12       12       12      12
3.   tgn Chaten kssasmt Unit
Assistat S6gineer                              1        1        1        1       1        1        1       1
inspector                                     2         3        3       3        3        3       3        3
Aui^                                         16        14       24      24       24       24       24      24
8.  IWnc_ania  DivisiO
i. ~
3zeutive Engieer (Mecksnical)                 -         1        1        1       1        1        1       1
Assistant    iner (eil)                        1        2        2        2       2        2        2       2
Overseer                                      3         6        6        6       6        6        6       6
senior chani.                                 2         6        6        6       6        6        6       6
Auto Electrician                              2         4        4        4       4        4        4       4
achinist                                      -         2        2        2       2        2        2       2
2.kM &U
Operatet                                      -         -        4        4       4        4        4       4
eaic                                          -         -        2        2       2        2        2       2
Electrician                                   -         -        2        2       2        2        2       2
Dock lorker                                   -         -        4        4       4        4        4       4
1.  MolaleadEauato   Dwan
Slacutive  nir                                1         1        1        1       1        1        1       1
Sdeio    OUffier                              -         L        1        1          1        1     1       1
HU  Ottict                                    -         1        1        1          1        1     1       1
Asuistant l giaer                            3         3        3        3       3        3        3       3
Juaior Techiciai                              -         5        5        5       S        5        5       S
Junior tchnicl Assistant                      -        IS       15       15      15       15       15      15
S.    nemalStAff Malaswd
Iterl Auditer                                           I        I       1        1        1        1       1
sncutive Engier  (Ittriation)                           2        2       2        2        2       2        2
becutive Uingr   (echanic&l)                                                                1  1  1  1  1  1
AsiStant lagiae  (Krrigatien)                           1        1        1       1        1        1       1
Aasistant bouser (Mebmical)                            I        1        1       1        1        1       1
fwerer  (Irripdtie)                                     2        4        5       6        7       o        6
Overcast (vcauical)                                     3        3       3        3        3       3        3
Supezvisoz                                              6        6       6        6        6       6        2
Aeuo Rectricisn  (lerkbh)                               2        2        2       2        2        2       2
Smier Ibclnic (erkol"p)                                 4        4       4        4        4       4        4
Meehiaist (Ve,kebp)                                     2        2        2       2        2        2       2
Dredger Opretoz                                         -        4       4        4        4        4       4
Drds  llc ic                                            -        2       2        2        2        2       2
Dredger Uleotticias                                     -        2        2       2        2        2       2
raerdr DkWacke er-                                               4        4       4        4        4       4
Snie     8 Es o ficet                                   1        1          1        1        1     1       1
mu OftiCe                                               1        1        1       1        1        1       1
JUDi"s echaici                                          5        5        5       5        5        5
Juste  tcmical Assistant                               1S        15       15      15      15       15      15
Vater Charge Jpct                                       1        1        1        1       1        1        1
Aa                                                      8 1               S   1       a             8 



-64-                                       Table 11
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Monthly Water Requirements at CMC Intake
Crops                JAN   FEB   MAR 1/ APR   MAY   JUN   JUL   AUG   SEP   OCT 2/ NOV 3/ DEC
e__~Kn-- _ _ __ Mm     ----_____________________    -
Summer Paddy             -     -    3.5   74.7  72.3  24.3   5.9    -        -     -      -       -
Local Paddy              -     -      -      -     -      -    2.3  45.2  16.8  62.6   43.2       -
Improved Paddy           -     -     -       -    2.5  40.9 112.2  63.6  72.7   2.5       -       -
Wheat                  26.0  28.6  15.4      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     2.7   15.1
Jute                     -     -    2.7    7.3   6.3    -       -     -      -     -      -       -
Oilseeds and Pulses   40.2  18.8    -        -     -      -     -     -      -     -    33.3   42.7
Maize                    -     -      -     8.1   6.9   0.9   0.4    -       -     -       -      -
Gram                     -     -      -     4.3   3.7   0.2   0.2    -       -     -      -       -
Potato                  5.5   6.0   1.2      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     0.4    5.8
Vegetables               -     -      -     2.7   2.3   0.1   0.1    -       -    1.0     -       -
Sugarcane               0.7   1.1   1.9    2.7   2.3   0.1   0.1    -        -    0.5    1.2    0.8
Total Monthly Volume  72.4  54.5  24.7   99.8  96.3  66.5 121.2 108.8  89.5  66.6   80.8   64.4
(Mm 3)
Mean Flows 4/          27.0  22.5  20.4   38.5  35.9  25.5  45.3  40.6  34.5  45.3   45.3   24.0
(H3 /sec)
1/  Canal closed for 17 days - mean flows relate to 14 days of operation.
2/  Canal closed for 14 days - mean flows relate to 17 days of operation.
3/  Canal closed for  9 days - mean flows relate to 21 days of operation.
41  Average system efficiency at CNC head regulator is estimated at 421.



-65-                                              Table 12
gm                                                                                        Tl'.fto  'MMIt.~~~~~~~lam Maue
bi*"a  d"     kh.,i         2.4          3.5,        Go         20       0     0                      It12          31           40
Weps  Go    basIl           0.0           0           1         35      10    10 to10                               20 
(b,Lajal1)
Shee          tau            1.4         1,4        100          20     10     0          0            00           is            0
tau40  sb            0.                                          0      0          03                        2140
Owse   sllb          0.17         1.0        310          0             0          0            33           t0           00
ts*4    aul          50                                  20     1o     0           012                       is            0
8.51144    has              1.           2.13      1100          0          0             4            00           Is           30
Mele,e4       hot           1.0          2.2          5                        0          4             70          25           20
am  (mmm)  bat                                                                                                 
Ingeseene  ~~~e     25.0            0      2.500         05      0    25           4            ISO          40            0
blepeMp    hhesIl   ~2.5         3.8          Go         20      0      0          0           25           30            So
Yega*eblba    hhasSA  8.0          0           1         35     20    10           0           11           30
Shot          taui          I.3          1.0        100         20      10     0          0             0           23 
00leea  el           0.5           0           0                 0      0                       38          240
WAs el                .          1.0          50          0      00                0            35          l0a
nuese   sl           8.M 0                               20     10      0                      130          33            300
uusI~~uaid,bs        1~.,         2.4        19                                                 10           35           40
base   has           1~~ ~~.8    2.3          15          0       0     0          4            l0           is           30
Om  (MM)   bft                             -          -          -               
inoS          bat            .3          21           0         20       0                4            150          S5           30
Vogasells    host-                                                                                         
oasa   pSe          23.0           0       2.500         45     40    Is           4           IS0           40            0
MelmpPe"      mm"s           3.4         4.0         44         00      30    is          0            140          45          100
Wegoteb).o    mhotif       M4.                        I         so      30    15          4           US            35          150
Sheet         tauL           2.7         2.7        100         so      is    10          0             332                      30
Oiseade       sel           0.04           0                    20       0     00                      40           24           so
1.100.        sel            1.0         15          30         is       0                0            40           23            0
lttosae       tsel         24.0            0      2.000         65     30    is           4           185           38          130
Sez1la44,  has              3.5          5.0        40          Go     so    Is           4           140           45          to0
M14404        ha            3.0          4. a        1I         40      20    10          4            85           30           so
ar   (mg)  a5               1.0          1.2         t0         20      10     0       * 0             so           14            0
juet          bat           1.0          2.8          S         30      10     S          4           17s           20           30
luowsese      pee          3MO            0       2.400                45    25           4           n00           s0           65
vegtabell.    hILes        14.0           -                     is3    20    10           0           120           30           is
hoes          tol"           2.1         2.1        too         t0      so     0          0             75          27           20
0l15.e4       sAI           0.0            -                     0       0     0          0            38           22           10
his"          seo"          0.5          1.2                    to 1    S      0          0            34           21            0
ateteoa       seo"         14.0                                 is00 3  1s     S          4           140           32           i
ft"I pod"p   has            2.0          3.         H10         45     20    10           4           124           37           so
Melee         IO&           2.   2.0           1      5         230     L0a               4            72           21           30
olso (warn)  hbsok 
JUNselee      hot           -.           S                               -     -          -                
(tint.)
lepseew  peg       ~~20.0                  S .500        70     45    to           4           109           42            0
Selepeddy    11*11*  3.0     ~~4.2         00         so     2  1 0 t           0           130          40            $0
Vepseble    khasI          17.             -          1         40     20    t0           0           134           32           IS
(Isiejel)
Shoes         nul           2.3         1.3         100         40     20      S          0            10          35            25
0l1.ee,"      nel           0.8            0                     0      0     0           0            30          St            LO
1.10.5       staL           0.0          1.           0         10      I     0           0            is          11             a
WAate  sl           17.0           -          3          43     so    t0           0           145          35            SO
$oms, Pe"i   bog            2.0         4.2         100         30     20    to           4           I30          40            05
Ma""          has           2.4         3.4          1s         is     10     3           4            is          it            40
am (come)   ha                                                          -      -t                                      
jugte  lee     ha                                                -;          o-                       is             ts
(amass)
hpssaaa       ps           280                    2.500         70    45    20            4           180          42            20
11211 90,6    besS          3.4          4.0         80         00     30    It           0           140           45          100
tegsehaa    basiS          24.0                       I         30     so    Is           0           t10,          31          ISO
Shoes         selL           2.          2.         10           0     2530,                           is                        30 s
OJImada       selL          0.C0                      0                 0     0t0                      40           24           30
ble.a         gel"          1.0         1.5          so         150s                                   40          23             0
leesa  sll          04.0                 2S00            05     20    Is           0           L63,         38           ISO
Uulp0y        has 6         13,5         .0         40          00     so    15           4           140          45           to0
Wm"l         los            3.0         4.2          is         40     so    10           4            85           30           $0
0sam (UN)hat                1.0          1.5         go         go      10     0          0            so           24            o
Jots$         tot           1.4          2.0          8         30     10      5          4           175           to           so
Veeele  a           24.0                       a         70     35    13           0           I70          35           ISO
Sepsaee.  os       ~~33.0                  I'm0          go     45    25           4           200           30           05



NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Summary of Annual Farm Unit Budnets at Financial Prices 1/
1.4 ha Farm Unit                    3.9 hl  Farm Unit
FWO 2/  FW 2/  Incremental         FWO       F      Increwental
--(NRs)-----------                 -----------(NMs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Main Crop                            14,769  33,556      18,787         37,057   78,538      41,481
By-Product                          _  435      693         258          1,194    1,993         799
Total                           15,204  34,249       19,045        38,251   80,531       42,280
B. Production Generating Costs
Purchased Inputs                      1.113   3.156       2.043          2.671    8.239       5.568
C.  Gross Margin                           14,091  31,093      17,002         35,580   72,292      36,712
D. Value of Famill Owned Resources
Family Labor                          3,415   4,901       1,486          9,526   14,536       5,010
Draft Animal                          2.001   3.036       1.035          5.411    8.312       2.901
Total                            5,416   7,937        2,521         14,937   22,848       7,911
E.  Net Return to Family Farm               8,675  23,156      14,481         20,643   49,444      28,801
F.  Net Return Per Canita 3/                1,239   3,308       2,069          2,949    7,063       4,114
1/  At full development.                                                                                                    $4
2/ FWO - 'Future without' project; FW - 'Future with' project.
3/  Assuming household size of seven members.



-67-                                Table 14
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated lcreMental Rent and C0ot Recoverya/
(NRs/Farm Unit)
1.4 ha Farm      3.9 ha Farm
A.  Bstimated Proiect Rent
Gross Value Production                                  10,201           25,810
Less Production Cost                                     1.094            3.983
Gross Margin b/                                          9,107           21,827
Less Depreciation  I/                                        0                0
Less Inputed Value
of Own Resources d/                                   1,350             4,237
Less Allowance for Risk                                    150              350
Less Management Fee                                        350              850
Project Rent                                             7,257           16,390
Rent as % of Gross Margin                                 79               75
B. Present Cost Recovery
i
Lgter Charges el                                           280 (462)        780 (1,287)
Land Tax f/                                                117  117         326    326
Total                                                   397 (579)      1,106 (1,613)
C.  Annual Proiect Costs
Annualized Capital Cost B/                               5,345           14,885
O&M                                                        460            1.285
Total                                                 5,805           16,170
D.  Cost Recovery Index h/
Present Cost Recovery as % of
Annual Project Costs                                       7 (10)           7 (10)
E.  Rent Recovery Index h/
Present Cost Recovery as % of
Estimated Project Rent                                     5 ( 8)           7 (10)
A/  Annuity of recovery of incremental value over project life span assuming
12% rate of interest.
b/ Gross margin is defined as gross value of production less cash expenses on
production costs.
c/ Since the farmer bas few physical assets other than land, no depreciation has
been assumed.
d/  Family labor and draft animal power.
.t/ Assuming water charges as presently fixed by HMGN of NRs 200/ha/yr; recovery
in brackets assume water charges of NRs 330/ha/yr.
I,/ Presently land tax for irrigated land in the Terai, with paddy as the main
crop, is NRa 83.6/ha.
A/  Calculated at 12% interest over 50 years.
i  Index given in brackets reflect the situation when water charges are raised
to about NRs 330/ba/yr such that full O0M costs are recovered (para 6.18).



6UII - cost S5 A FOR mom SamS - on I 62 33
(IN OILERS 3*3
1      2       3       4      5       *      7          B    *S            to      t2     is  14-t  17-t    ts9-2a       22     n       24     a        2  27-2S   -30
ta mum s an9 FM   n                           m 
OmIam13 om cm                                                  -3  14  23  32  43  s3  so   a  5                                    3    3                                so   a    a    3    3   3    3   3
a     It  m*     6StE )                   0                    -4       3      1      3t              106     9      2n    3I       140 t   * to          24 t    4 to    t      3o to           to                   140   1s
Sit 2           in#,= 0                                        -2    - 0                              - S    3    3         s    S t               3 a            35             St   s 3               s  5 3    3    35
61a3 10          W3                                     -      -,   17        47      89    353    206    237    244    30         2*     26      26      261  248    26        24      2iO    2*t  240    26         2       2
400026   1515103*                                      36t t33 t    5   -               -                            -    -    -    -    -                         -                                         --    -    -    -  
UmW UNm    Wel                                                let   -7   a             -  to          -    -    -                    -     -              n -    ¢                 t      8
t sac    t ucm                                         24    -03                                                                     - -  -    -   -   -                   -       -      -         -      -       -           - -
J1M      W     59M                                      9    to        -5              -              .       - -     -        --                   - 
I In   2omidw                                              3      30      9 I      7                                     . .  .  .      .       . -.- -.-      -
tao ON     s      a m*                                                  .             W                       - -        . -  -      -      .              .               .              .              -          -
to2 2 a                                                                                -3      -      .       -      -       - -  -         -       -       -      -       -       -              -      - -
mft                                                     2       1       1   *         s                   *    r 1  2 U UU13   . s . X .ZaJ
inme I     I    wi   m                                          7       6      6       6       6      6       -              --                     -       -      -       .       -      -       -      -       -      -
h=  03U2ES                                                   2       2      .-      .       .-                     .      ..       .            _ .         .                   -              .   ..
080111MV         tMO                                  3      2       0      a       0       0      0       7       S      9      to      It     12      13      3313           13i    is      33      a      a3     a3      a
am           m    W    icm"                                           tft    113         11244    2*  34  I U 32  n  14  7  t3  It  to     is      20      33  t5         I3      N      23      a      u      54       4      3s
_in rtIn
"a     _nt          In3                                -40   -2m     -t2 -i          -23      1      3      23n      23    237    23      2S7 2W          20     21t    25       3      227    26       26    1       2n      25
______________________- 
_m3  Mst Oetw' .1 St Stro
wws."9
212340
'-9



a      2       3       4      S       6       7      6       9      31      It      12     Is      24      is      U6     I?      is  9-2?           2          23           3  23?23 943
anma   ainup as  a msm NMISMa,
Wm I GA twlm)                                            -   -3  3k  23  it  a1   3   a3   3   so   a   a    a   23   a 3                                                           3    m   u0 a n  a*                          a   a    a
"a  Ill am 1310201 m              -2                      0      a       IRS    4*      n       es m~~7        III    to 242    3        2232                230     US4    24   234    US4   234    234    234    23
lift   mason   EMIT                             a-9       ?      4       69     0        3              33                    W        0     3       424    3               42      442    433   46*    462    42         462    432    462
ggomSin33iVUino                                         56      3                   -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -                         -           -       -          -
Willin  023$W                                           24    032        -       -      -       -       -              -       -       -       -      6 -   -   -   -   -        -                         3  -  -   -
*131D 0 SW                          I me                              3       -  -        -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -                  -
3m  am  a  $UK 333*                                      -      39          97 9is 2                    -      -       -       -       -      -           -       -      -       -       -           .      .       .      .         .       . 
to am  a  Wminan                                         -       -       -       -      -       -       -    to3    In  Its3   In5    In5    in5    336              -                   -       -      -       -      -       -           -              -1
13136 2I  I   go-                                                                                                     -       -               -      -               -       -              -       -              -       -                           
I Sa   u  Ifg    312n                                    7               6       6              6              6       6       6       6      6       6       3       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -0
Smum       lW                                                    2       2              -       -  Mm                              -   -   -  -   -       -. -           -       -          -       -           -
Me 44191                                          a       a      I       0       a       I       8      7       S       9     a1      It      32      is     Is          13          a s    Is      St     ii  3           22  13         Li 1    13
N3.  1TM3l5t1On            ?a6 3s CM                           23      tSO     IU      it       2      24    IS      23      13      ltu     13   1  43    135       13     ii      25      0s      ii     3      23      Ii      to     34      14      23
.............n... .                                                                                   ..                s .. ...af .....flfllff
bApad W-a of lbt, of NA St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
2t.M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



Table 16
-70-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IMlIGATION II PROJECT
Summary of DIHM Expendituare Proaram for the Irrikation Subsector
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985/86-1989/90)
(at 1984/85 Constant Prices)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90   lotal
--- (NRs Million)-----------
A.  Investments 1/
Rehabilitation and Completion
of Projects
Terai - Surface Water              586.4    525.6    405.6    371.0    252.0   2,140.6
Terai - Groundwater                 84.8     72.2      51.1     64.1     19.6      291.8
Hills - Surface Water              104.3    113.4      89.9     82.2     83.2      A73.0
Subtotal                     775.5    711.2    546.6    517.3    354.8   2,905.4
Ne Proiects_
Terai - Surface Water                5.5      5.5      16.5     78.1    114.4      220.0
Terai - Groundwater                  0.5      0.5       0.7      0.8      0.8        3.3
Hills - Surface Water               33.0     44.0      77.0     8.0      95.6      3
Subtotal                      39.0     50.0     94.2    166.9    210.8      560.9
Total Investments            814.5    761.2    640.8    684.2    565.6   3.466.3
B.  O&M Recurrent Costs  1/ 2/
Rehabilitation and Completion
of Projects
Terai - Surface Water              122.9    163.7    174.3    180.0    192.2       833.1
Terai - Groundwater                 15.7     17.9      19.5     21.0     22.7       96.8
Hills - Surface Water                2.0              .j 4.0  5.6  6.7    7.7       26.0
Subtotal                     140.6    185.6    199.4    207.7    222.6      955.9
New Projects
Terai - Surface Water               35.5     35.5      35.5     35.6     40.4      182.5
Terai - Groundwater                    -        -         -          
Hills - Surface Water                  -                32.7  .9  4.4      5.9      16.9
Subtotal                      35.5     38.2     39.4      40.0     46.3     199.4
Total O&M Costs              176.1    223.8    238.8    247.7    268.9   1.155.3
1/  Figures include baseline cost and physical contingencies of 10.
2/ Assuming O&M cost of NRs 435/ha for extensive projects and NRs 605/ha for
intensive projects during the first five years of operations. Afterwards,
NRs 570 and 820/ha for extensive and intensive projects, respectively.
Sources: Seventh Five-Year Plan for Irrigation Development Report
No. 3/1/250185/1/1. Ministry of Water Resources, WECS, Kathmandu,
Nepal, 1985.



-71-                          ANNEX 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
List of Tables
1. Repairs and Improvements to CMC
2. Desilting Facilities
3. Irrigation and Drainage Works (Stage II Area)
4. Completion of Stage I Area
5. Operation and Maintenance
6. Vehicles and Equipment for O&M
7. Workshop Equipment
8. Detailed Design and Construction Supervision
9. Training Studies and Monitoring and Evaluatior
10. Suimary of Accounts by Year



i          W.SNRil_lS 10 tlW
wei bWt T*b
Dow caw                                                  ttAls 1lial beUi us
an Imp                                                            isln
wimn    aiwiw  IMAMn  awnm  amnoit n~mw  smm                  U. tow   W119   Wiit?    919190/19  191/99   ~92/13 99fl9  to
I. w  IIWml COW
k  _W    in   I I   IoilAT aEO 10 -                                                                            - aa                -                                                   M..$ -  -  -  -  -131.v
Ih ,II To SW_I TM in1                              *     i  ,        -       -        _       _        _       -      .*    26.5       -                -            -           _    26.5
t  W 1|_ 111 11 _ 1.614.,                              -       -        -       -        -       - 1,64.0  2.9.          -    _        _-                  -          2,U.
M.   0       m    m Ms   to To   n                          - m              -        -       -       -        -   M.          -                -       -       -        -       -       4
E-    u usmDusumlm Tlm IM
IsB ii sumimi                                   3.06.0  4,125.0       -       -       -        -       - 7,121.0  3*415.3  5,43.3       -       -        -       -        -9018.
MM PISt                                               443.0  79.o          -       -        -       -       -*     .   4F.4 N       2        -       -        -       -        - 15254
sIniJgUBII                                           2e01.6  2516.0        -       -        -       -       - 4*516.   2.4    3..2           -        -       -        -       -  5?5
am  1 mM                                               MA    8..0          -.w1    54.4  1.15.7                                              -       -        -       -        -  2.-1
WTI"  Wml. M         Ii  aS tOrn lfui In               91.@  MsW-O           -        -       -        -       - 2.st.o0 1d.8 2h#15.4           -       -        -       -        - 32444.2
F.  ZliU a am I ml9                                    29190.0                                                   2o914  SAL0           -- -                                          3 _.43.0
5.c    553       uMi                                        -  2.3e4.0       -   -            -       -        - 2,364.0       -  2.14          -       -        -       -        - 33343.
1I     Lai tiM.   5                                          -    a1.0       -        _       _        _       _   gguo        -  1i13.o        -       -        -       -       -  1
13 395 T0 K3I=  SINEiW                                 193.0  2923.0         -        -       -       -        - 2231.0  I      2,24 26         -       -        -       -        -  .3
J. KM?i -W                                                  - -  --0-o.o              -       -        - -      34600.0        -  94.  3,31.9
5. wIS   ta uInv  tJCW t ma                            5"0 .0        -       -        -       -        -       - ao0   htf              -       -                _       _        -       O
towb l llllt WESl 2h<c3." 4e .  15200.0                                                 -                - -     -U      * NoW.3 6WMS 3.3                  -       -        -       - I10   .
laGeR                                                     20.492  47.  1S5.0             -   -            - _            _  0 2bwJ du3.  3,31.9             -       -       -        -"647.5
.                                      mmm                                    _ m__m_i n_m_
.   .   .  . .~~~~~~~~~~*I



1.1,1,..,    9!.199999  9 *9   .199999 * 99
.1~~~~~~~.1 .1,,,,I1,.,,, l§f
..  .    1X99999999999,9,.@.               9999999999998       l:ii
.1.1 1 999    919999999999    II!1feI
.1.1,999    919999,9999999    .199,..., ~1l
.1.19999    919,9999999                    19.1.999,              1 9
t Xsuuy



1g.                *¢- t -l -+t etros                                                               i -                  -tI  eCett r e n ts  -   -   -
w s   as' s*sid' tWet yq enw0 s                             ez   ,owt eV ow  "owl ramW   d   -    -_aD  tens   -
ow'   VSPISS  **U 'I  r#    -                                                              rat-  -  *l  fl        r -  -  -  _Amin                      MMt"
flP    SIP   tm'  eU    £ 15    -             -      -   roPI  rou'  fiWi rUh   eLf    -                          -             -i    31a    -D
-      -       -      rrou r  -       -s   -         fl'4    -      -       -                                                          MeweM I  H'  -  -  -  m  u-4
z                             t-  -  -  ¢                                                  - -  -                                                 I of  -  -  -  t  -  --e
ram   -        -       -              -       -      -        Oe   -        -       -                                     - --#1_
LIla   -       -       -    '~        -       -      -       OeeX -         -       -   e U        -       *      -                           ti - 
6Wa   -        -       -    * W    -          -      -       flU    -       -       -       05 -           -      -                         mGu g - us 
ism atoim Iz
-n         -                                              IS~-          -       -      @@'                    -                       isarmt  m sm   i.w
*tsA   -       -       -      £.w.n  -        -      -         e    -       -       -        e"  -         -      - V,am  =s  u
'Itm   -       -       -      iw't -          -      -              -       -       -      e.g    -        -      -                      m      nuus
VbP   -        -       -       rat    -       -      -      *I5e  -         -       -      OPtS  -        -                    -Et NUDA
5id6   -       -      -   tll         -       -      -      CV                      -              -       -   _U                ~uiun
n                             O-  -  -  lit    -  -  -         u    -       -      -        o      -       -      -N  -
*                 SW~rQ;  -              -   -    *';  -        -       -   rCb   -           -       -       CE     -       -       -                           usia-31
t               lt  ~~-        -       -       g11'  -        -       -      om':  -        -       -        eU'  -        -       -s u-
V-.t  -  -                                      -       em    -        -       -      **eea -                -       n4a  -         -       -                            iaisu o
Nmmam Is
tv * ~~~-                       -       -   r *9   S           -       -      CliP   -       -       -      *S'  -*O    -          -                               fuzm  6310
sm~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ -t - - r  w - -  o                        g               
0*1    -       -       -      Cli   -'t   -          -       emt  -         -       -      esrsU  e-t   -         -                      51M      WI3   m
419    -       -       -      6 199   -       -      -      yo.-                   -   et.    -ee -    -          -                  WE m             m
_             _       _              _di            _    -  1Z -    _      _       _N'     _                               is  na  i
rw   Win  ron                 rw   won~~~~~~~~~~~~~mi *
can   4-       -       -      ra'  veL   -           --                     -       -      WON    Oim -           -                                     _m am
cam   -        -       -                                                          eue -  -            -                                                   eal -  -  -  Cl  -  -  -  e
Lsw    -       -       -      LuW   -         -      -       oe     -       -       -      roa     -      -       - u   _
* sloez  -     -       -      rt'   **z -     -      -       ezo'  -        -       -       ezs'  -i       -      -                                   Nfl S vi
rEamf  -r -                   rt'       t46                                                row*l- -      elor   - -                                      tPlM-S
SW  'I'
I'm  r4w6  9-M46                                                                                                 Mau~~~1 
(.300:)) 0191 110113313101|1#    1    *
LUU13i SIliNli 10191 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     140  a        1
&3 an              i    -
S ul g #W
amI   ISNnwV0



mm
_m No  vnomu  n 1m
T1.6 3- 1 1      i9M3S   SWIt11 UI A
&"iled Cost t11
ha Ct                                                          Totlats7   ts ai camtIum
m  't0)                                                                 a   0)
19871198119 m1m  199990 13       1 I     9   9n9S3 1mg1   Tow l*       1 7/   19399 19P/lm  tm n   lm9  1219  1939  low
6 LA i18   1101                                                  -    250.0    00.0    50.0 t      00     .00          -  2329.0         -    319.    674.2   7t0.4    74.2   74.6            -  3,167.9
1. 13w1  1  WA.                                                -    41.0  294.0  1,4.0  1.94.0    920.0             -  6#60            -    m.4  2,095.5  2,144.7  2s2a7  1471.0            -  S#H7.4
2. Ct81   MM 8   t68                                           -  Is839.0  4597.0  459.   49W.0  2#75L0             - let=*$           -  2.31.9   *220   4M84  649.7  440.                 - 259MI
3. 51T to Mm 5                               .A                -    1960    4M0.0   4MO    4O0,    24.0             -  lo40,0          -    262.0    6.7   717.6        2.0    40.8         -  203.0
4.  aE"IT FI M   an CS                                         -  2,064.0  s55.0  5*15.0  5*159.0  3950             - 29436.0          -  2,676.   6,995  7,192.7  745.5  45983             - 29,7.l
s. Ommum  FMR NM  CS                                           - 130.130 32,97.0 32,9*.0 3297.  I9M.0              - 131d.0.0         - 1709L8   44,5.  459.3 47327.2 2h3W.2               - 1W5.*
6. 9511   MM R11. M  TM 260 N                                  -    314.0    7-0.    7s0o.    74.0   47.0           -  3S1*7.0         -    407.1  143.5  1493.1   12.4    69               -  4b31.9
7. 1so Fl3                                                     -   .41S.0  4W27.0  4.1D.0  4127.0  2W476.0          - 16,508.0         -  20195.6  5781.1  SP"954  6.195.1  3,86.9          - 24414.1
N   IOU  56IIB                                                 -  1,325.0  329.0  3,296.0  3*26.0  1#*7.0           - 13#110.0         -  1.72.4  4.1193   4t.6.3   482.3  299.             - 18*1.2
9Si-to. ctlll    ISS                                              - 21181.0 32s957.0  2,957.0   5.90 3177M0            - 211tWe          - 21544.3 72,12.3 74,194.3 7640 47.46.8               - 297.23.8
C. GM  MOuiw
;. E
S    Q319  Top WM                                           -      9.0     23.0    23.0    21.0    14.0          -      93.0        -     1.2    29.9    30.e    33.1    200             -     24.9
E1318                                                       -    249.0   422.0   622.0   622.0   373o            -  2,488.0         -    31J.3   sW.       871.3   980.9    39.2         -  3U4
rE_ITS                                                      -    133.0   330.0    330.0    330.0    198M         -  1.421.0         -    14.9   42.    440.         41    31.4           -  low6.7
nMi   oA sniugs                                             -    112.0    27%.0   2m.0    20.0    1680           -  1,118.0         -    140.8    384    3904    3M98    24.             -  1*527.9
M  ro                                                       -     12.O     29.      29.      3.0      18.0       -    li1.0         -     14.9    37.6     3.       41.2    25.6         -    13."
1 FImmB                                                     -     47.0    2184    118.0   117.0    71.0          -    41.0          -     59      1.8    140.9   144.    103.4           -    67 
83J. FURAII                                                 -     34.0     8.0    86.0    86.0    32.0           -    344.0         -     42.7   113.5   117.3   121.0    75.7           -    470.2
SW MMB WAIQ  FILL                                           -     5.0   14.0   148-0    14L8o         00         -      n2.0        -      4.2   195.4    2018    20.2   129.            -    W81
-Tot  ElS                                                      -    654.0   l10o   13.0  1.0    983.0               -  6545.0         -       61   2*16.4  2P241.1  2,215.8  1u49.          -  3,93.8
2. EL aWIE s
mimi!                                                       -  5,210.0 13460 13026.0 1346.0  7.8                 - 504.0            -  6W6  1749.2 1A7 .  18*3t.lS 11242.9               - 70474
Fifim                                                       -  1t33.0  3*32410  3,32410  3*324.0  19.0           - 1329.0           -   ,672.1  438.2  4*5.l  4*5.4  2p904.3             -    171.9
u n       m1E.                                              -    377.0    42.0    42.0   9410    5st.0           -  3*77.0          -    46.   1.219.7  1*252.7  1,1.1    800.5          -  s5zr.7
iTh W bJElUl0llll IEl                                          -  6,917.0 17,292.0 17M2.0 179M.0 28*376,0           - 69.14.0         -  8644,4 22*65.1 23*350.  24#t.0  1497a.6            - 9346U.7
3. F9ECT          MME  S
U gs                                                        -    407.0  11.0  418.0  101.0    610.0              -  447.0           -    509    1*336.4  1373.1  1420.8    61.1          -  539.9
metZs Nis s                                                 -    340    8O.    8.0    96.0  5s1o                 -  3#473.0         -    435.6  I*135  1*176.4  121.        4s.7        -  4#714.0
W-OW  "MT M         E  PPS                                     -    7L.0  1.06.0  It8.   1*87.0   11,12.0           -  7444.0         -    94.0   2476.0  2*54.5  24336  19M10              -  0239.9
4. FT1    ams
FM CiX 1lTME                                                -     6V0    172.0      72.0   172.0   103.0         -    643.          -       .-3    225.6   232.6   23W8    148.         -    932.9
FI C WIt                                                    -     95.0    27.0   237.0    26.0   142.0            -    94t.e        -    11t94    312-9   323.1     3.9    20.           -  1299.
FIR Oam  a a                                                -    119u      298.0   290.0   298.       7 e.0       -  112.0          -    149.1   39.7   404.1    416.7    21e.0          -  S1 .6
FOR NW S W                                                  -      86.0    215.0    25.0   215.0   129.0          -     MOI- 14    2814                     13.7    298.8    13.6        -    906.9
Sital fEamt  rnl                                               -    369.0   922U.0       ..   921.0   s550          -  3417.0         -    4-2.2  1211.6   993.5  1.31.2    79.9           -  475.4               ° ..
motp:  Tn he continued on next Pap.e.                                                                                                                                                                                0



I ,  ui;jI           !1 11    !015     ' !jll        '§iII,;,  "I'5s1  ,I I
,  ~~~~~~~~~~~.                            . . . . . .  . . .
I                      ... 
I b1 |!1  i;2h    ! 1 d1 ie   i I  mu:lgtugti  l 1!te!!ez   £!dlt   11                  'I-! 
f.            Itt 
I i.O.! -...l.. 1-                               ..1-        .....1-
q  |1t i 1  {t       Il      2I !        g   9t!!             e0(i                      i
T... . 1=.1,g ...1,Wl . 



am
_m     -   ITIM 11 ECT
Table 4. COIKTIN IF ST5 I N
kWld tat Table
DMs CU                                                            Toas b       "is CutlWius
(US 160                                                                     (6 01W
193l7        lnm   1Y9WA 1  1ss n 1n1/n2 19VIM   MM14  TOWa    1 /S3                    l9n9W M818  1990/19W91l t n    2 1t99319Mn9        4 Toal
A. L<Y A    SITt                              2.0        -                                           5.0          -    348.7                   -        -         -        -   349.7
3. cm  m       I                      -  5gm060   12,060.§0  16150.0        -        -         - 33MI5.0         -  6#54.?  164349.5 22,425            -        -         - 45,%*9
C. CAM  SIClES                        -  t#150.0  3,460.O  5.260.0          -         -        - 10,30e.0         -  1,948.2  4,957.   7,391.9          -         -        - 14.3l8.0
D. M1IN SA b                          -    456.O   1,50.0  2,150.0          -        -         - 4,360.0          -    351.4  2PU014  3047.9            -         -        - 5    ?
E. 0m    UWINTS                       -  3.300.0  77M.0  11,060.0           -        -         - 22600.00         -  4,273.6 10,465.5  1S.336.3         -         -        - 3h06.4
Totl ISTIOIm   COSTS                     - 140,70.0  24t.00,0  34#500O.        -        -         - 70,060.0         - 13,951.6  33,34.3  4341836          -        -         - 96,184.7
Total                                     - 110700.0 24,90O0.  34,500*0         -        -         - 70t,06.o         - 13,951.3  33,814*3 48418*6          -         -        - 96184.?
Ig gaxav
'-a,



SIR1 NWAlliR164TIDII 11 PROACT:
lsble 5. CfflttlItD I war I
Doailtd cost tablo
DMCosts                                                          Tows brlulii Continuwls
t987n91B I911tSt9 lB9P/9  1990991 S^19"192 1"nM  IMS^   loeS                 19117*1  19"tI9  19IM/D19wO I          9nn9M IMAM   nmI    1993t/94  lota
1-   U sMT       COSTS
l*EII HOSS Fllt sAn   1T11S420 aTS)                                  -      M.0    4tO.0    400.0    400.0    400.0    3tO.0 2#00B.0               -    227.1    S30.3    5 B.4    U6-0    W15.B    454.7 2 912.2
OM _11XLI DI.U0lM FMIKS111C  t4 tUET5 X 60 sO. B.)                    -    IBO-O    IBO.Q    IB§.0    IIO.0                         2 20-0         -    225.5    236.6    244.1    251.7           -         -   957.9
XB6 ll SUIUR#S 19 UNITS)                                          SOO-O    0000    EeO-0    BOO.O   lltO-O- 3 700.0                            505-9  1tO02.3  Iv O51.   1too%.$  1.IIB.S          -        -4t043.2
Sub-ota StDLKS                                                       soo-o   14.  1o-    I3B0.0   1480.0   t+3B0    40oo .      o0 X0.0  X        550.  5-9  10454-9  1#91tS5  1#S7.2  1#93.2    s8.s      4s4.7 8#n3.3
~~~~~-              - -  -    _.-- _-- -- - --  -  ^^- - - -_-----_--_--__-_
To tal   TB aO N     o                                                 500.0  I.l0e.    146B0+O   103so.e  103ee-e    eeo-       300.0  WWO§-        5959  1045-9  IlsM.5    1 s7.-2   I.M2         sas-s    45.7 8,713.3
A. LEsALETABIsSMNIT                                                 n18.0    sl3.0    91S-0    931-0    f690       58.0      m-M MA   43.4       "-0-   IP-4    1#237-0   1w>*1   1403-5  1*4?3.6  Isu3.s 16?31.91
0. 1101M
muRAUnW  Mm                     iP0.0 I*StO0  19000.0 IOtO-.0  lotw. t*0  It0 Ie0-00.                                  o.  7.500.0    P10857-9  1sS23.2  1392.0          I Ut-0o   19400-o  los*o.1  IvWS.0  Iho636.2
USIEltn  FAULM                                                       -        -         -        -  60300#0  603M.D0  h03000 e sO.0o-                                -        -  90374.3  s.7e24  10ho42.0 2M.1tS
OnaIIER lltkllU   IIIID 14 llalll6                             1 1  l20t.0  19400.   IPM.0  2 eoe o  243Dt.6  2400-0  2*8eove t3o9tefe    t1006-3  Isom.$  20M6.1  2*882.    39422.4  3*850.2  *s463.1 20e m-s
SubYtarTeWtl5iLtZ11^11                                            297ee.0  2#400.0  2teo-o0  3#000.0  t6000   940.ee 0tW l§o*409300.    3-344-3  3U15-7  3S-723    4W31 4,204.7  MM^2-    WOon16007?RB
ToUl lFllW   COM                                                     3#418.0  3.213.0   3#6-0   39931.0MU  10*70 0.3#01#1.0 1*l46PSMO 0               49204-2  4P213#1  40S61    5462?.2 15s60B2  1Ih56.3  1?sa12.66800.7
lEd                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3#S.O  403t3.0   41998-t  50311.0  Itw.O9+    11tt83.0 110311-0 5304L  41?f§1  30670t  60814.*  ?*030M    t?7ANA  I?#W1  17*%7-3 7422.9
=g_~~    ~~~~ _ ,       ------ awsruaow             - -awag                                                            - -   a__            _



en    m m ,mnu  as ow
30taa lad coat table
anfC.t                                                          ttl   10dewCotllo
zcVgnum 19uus,p390  MM5imaw " 199I M1         2 IMAM 3399394 Total   190/190 11/969 n09n1m 3990/m1992   m/m  3992n11  3993/19   touta
I. lINiSlEu  COST
NV      n1 1613  33.5 M. R3. I I M1I)        4- O6.19                     -        -- 4.360.0                           -  533.6                                                   son"- .3.
NVmC NolI (0.7 to. 5. II (11 -MY)900                             --                         -         -  ,690.0         -  2,60.                    -         -                    246.
OML  LWM  41.4 5. M. I  I01 -I   31325.0                         -                                        3v250.0       -  1560.9          -        -         -                 - 1154.9
Roo 631  4,0 I116 1 Ien M-    hI.0,                                       -                          --      .          -  1,687           -                           -        -30.#
NML mmn to? I IMT)                            -2*U.100           -        -                              2030.0         -    U369          -                  -        -        -313,9M
SIlL OM20  (is 2 15MT)                        -1.290.0          -                           -1290.                          1,10.3         -                 -         -        -1r904.3
VW  W ten    11115 32  WITS7)                 -   .50.                    -        -                     1440.0         -1,903.3           -                  -        -- 394
M   SI NI M  Nit                              9660..0       -                  -        -           047.            -  WWI68.          -        -        -         -        - 300460.
O.3tM  NI on   my                                 2.6*0.41       -                 -         .        -   .8.               3.16.3         -        -         -        -        - 3,16.3
(11125WA    1614                        -  2044.          -                  -        -        -20.0  .0          -3077.4                     -        -        -         -3,7.
"M1 am  fitTONS)                              -1,1260,                    -                           -1120.0           -1494.2            -                  -                 -1.314.2
S.h-T4taI   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  --  - ---------   ---                            -         -        -3600              -440.                                                      ,0
C. 63911  IlIIUL
FM  sOEnt                                     -     700.0        -                           -        -      00,              owl          -                                          s.
Sa.Total Kw311 63213                                 2,030.0        -                           -        -2r0110.          -    .3.9          --                                      23.9
P. gm3  9615 to an       IflhlI  4205                 ,320                      -                        -M 3.332.0        -44M57             -                                       41.
E. SP31 PAMS FOR STAR I E33196             2.200.0        -         .        -        -         -        -2200    2,540.3                                                 -        -24
F. 3631131 631015S
30s6m  AV? (7)                             20.0    520.0    526.0    264.0         -         -        -  ,00,        409.4    45.4    42.3    350.3 1                              292114.
Pien JED  (3)                             231.0    462.0         .        -                                M  9.0    204.7    571.0        -                  -        -              VJ.
sUIait  Wm5 MP (3)                        20.0    340.0    30.0           .                           - 92.          MM5.      MI.   39.9           -         -        -           t.I.2
SIWITUI (25)                                  -    110,0    110.0    110.0    130.0    M3.0           -   50.           -      M3O.   142.1    145.       13.3     13.4         -   729.4
ICmtO  (250)                               160   .6 18     .0 3.0        .0     10.0             -         250.0      57.7     61.0     64.6     66.3      06.2        -        -   3110.7
2031 1015s FIIt fun    1 4fl 6) 252       223.0    29.0    199.        68.0     32.0      22.0        - 683.0        257.5    340.9    25.3    112.?       43.      33.1        - 1,02.9
S~-totat EWIC II 63101S               1,340.0  1,710.0  3.195.0    509.0    392.0    132.0          - 5,318.    1.547.2  2.142.9  1,543.9    675.0,   262.0    100.4             6#3?7.3
6.  356  111988    /a                 1,379.0        -                                    .        -1,370.0   1t.52.                              --                          -3.22
FLU 0LA3I1 MI896N1                                  460.0        -                           -        - 460.0            -    494.4                 -         -        -        - 49.
L0i1W (YIVFtnI                                      100 s                                                  1-O30.0            222.5                                                  Z - -2-335
5(36   M1916 WI                                     430.0        -        -        -                  - 410.0                 SW06?        -                                          06.7 
8*-total NIEILI3S EUWEUT         - ---- -------- --------------------------    -    -              ---  - -15 -.0 -    1- 527---                      - --115.
YOItotal311333  COSTS                         4,919.0  37,52.0  l*39".0    509.0   3M.0    332.0            -44,099.0   5,670.4 45,96.0  1,543.9    675.0    262.0    9*3.4           - 5024.5
Total                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~4,919.0  37,152.0  1.3950 56.0  39.0  3o 32.0      -44*409.0   5,679.4 6,916.8  1,543.9    075.0    242.0    130.4           -5,4*3.5S
.   .  . .......                  ,,,   nr.,.r,...... . .,  an.,. ..r... 
..   . .   . . .   . . . . - - - -- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -- - ---- -- - - - - - -    - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - --   -- - - -
/a Detailed in Annex 1, Table 7.



-80-                                   Annex 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Workshop Equipment
No. of    Total
Item            Description                             Unit Cost       Unit      Cost
(NRs)                (NFeS '000)
1.  Battery charger with repair kit                       20,000         2        40.0
2.  Battery tester with repair kit                         4,000         1         4.0
3.  Multimeter                                             2,000         2         4.0
4.  Battery hydrometer                                        200       25         5.0
5.  Hose seal machine with kit                            80,000         1        80.0
6.  Gantry crane (5 ton)                                  40,000         1        40.0
7.  Pedastal grinder with tool kit                        45,000         1        45.0
8.  Inspection lamp with extensior cable                   1,500         2         3.0
9.  Various hand tools (spanners etc)                         -          -       250.0
10.  Hydraulic puller (5 ton) with repair kit              50,000         1        50.0
11.  Pressure bucket (20 capacity)                          5,000        10        50.0
12.  Oxyacetyline cylinder with kit                        20,000         1        20.0
13.  Bench grinder with kit                                12,500         2        25.0
14.  Hydraulic garage jack (10 ton) with repair kit        15,000         4        60.0
15.  High pressure grease pump and accessories             10,000         2        20.0
16.  Auto lift installation with spare parts              200,000         1       200.0
17.  Two stage air compressor                             150,000         1       150.0
18.  Axle stand                                             1,000        20        20.0
19.  Work bench with vice                                   8,000         2        16.0
20.  Electrical hand tool kits                              1,500         2         3.0
21.  Mechanical screw jack (5 ton)                          5,000        10        50.0
22.  Hydraulic jack (20 ton)                               25,000         2        50.0
23.  Lathe (small bed type)                               150,000         1       150.0
24.  Engine compression tester                             25,000         1        25.0
25.  Hand drill (electric) with tool kit                   20,000         1        20.0
Total                                                     1t380.0



mmni _  1tm3           t1 MimiECI
tblo 8. It(  I*1 113    I I CUiUIUCtWXI 9MISWI
Maled Cast T*be
lass Casts                                                    totals lr        isiC t
(WINe)                                                                £1s 81
1: 1,n=  :'M    19M          mim ImAMm  1ff22nn  1993/1M94  otabl   1931/191 lihs1m tzw/,  itnm     11MUM  IMAm    19W91     YlO
mnain m    mm                                                  o m omm      m                        mmm                 m3      m m
B. 31*14   TII      131      FAMM)
9IIIi      tSll Z -                                        -  2*60S.0        -        - ^               - 230.0          -2 . -                                       -t,,71.5
TUS gam-                                                   -    25.0         -        -        -        -   21.0          -       -    323.0                                       323.0
9to1A  31*lD  I   II t(ElT    F9m1)                  -        -  240.0          -        -        -       - 2,550           -        -  3,29.4         -        -            -M- 3#204.4
D.  e    o           i:.
IF=1    =SITKSS IEIINNTI                     63W.0  6934643.4,.   483     4 .0  46.0   4.76.0 36740.0   *W7.0  734.1  60.6   6.4  6*.1    4.4                             6.837 043,1.
Loa  uuu.x.tr u,.,m u               f      f     O.O    960.0    wo    soA         do0,    60.0    60.0 4o.mo         670.7  1 .27.3    8..0    Mo.S       9.0    sw.S   9M.? 6.247. 0
aIiTItZTl GROW                               1.50.0  1I000.0  1,6.0  5,3.0  lo.   Item.0   1000.0 750e0.0   1,744.2  1.W.2  19320.   1.3a.4  1.404S 1im55.   1,56.7 10*074.0
sTcte3      NAETIUm UVIVhhI                     9M40.0  8,306.0  6#443.0  6.44.0  6.443.0  6,443.0  6.276#0 48*760.0   9.70.#0 10327.   6,36.0  3*06263  3*56,   99195.7  9,273.4 64,4550.
TOWl    tIE 011                                    9,4 06.0   *3066.0  99M.o  6,443.0  dh443.0  6443.0  6274.0 51310.0   9.762.0 10327.6 11650.4  3626.3  8934.7  919.7  9,273.4 7*750.2
m         mmm                       mm               comm  gm m   m                                   mm                mm
Totbl           AC 46.0  8 306.0  8995.0  6443.0  6.4430    443.0  6276.0 1S310.0  9.762.  10,327.6 116 0.4  "626.3  84.7  99195.7  9273.4 67,750.2
mmm    m   m m mulom          m        m       o                 mm9 MW=M*         m        mm=m mm m
0IX~



_IAMl _WA IltIGA 11 iCTaw
TabIl9.  iM      WM C3 lu3i1   It EMtDIS SIUIIES
Dtaled Cbst Table
DM costs                                                        Totals htludzMd Ce,ntaadmnes
( as weo                                                                   m   mRS F)
1997/198191/n19196/1933 m Mn  191/1921M 92M/             1MAM  Total     1        9/1 9 8/9   MM     MUM 1   9      2 19m2/19n IMAMt   Total
M67 am
a. ii tslL   nw
FElS1 UalTmS                         1.150.0  1,150.0        -        -        -        -         - 2,300.0   1.448.5  l.S50.5        -        -        -        -         - 299.0
LUII CUU.LTMT                         125.0    125.0         -        -        -        -         -  250.0      163.3    174.3        - -               -        -         -    37.7
tb-Total ElTES  g1Wm                    1.275.0  1.275.0       -         -        -        -        - 250.0   lIol.O  1.724.            -         -        -        -        - 3367
3. skis NoEsIENT 51
FUEIS tONTUTS                             -  2M30O.9  2M.0            -        -        -         - 4,600.0        -  3,101.0  3.2416          -        -        -         - 6342.6
Lem  CUILTWTS                                   250.0    250.0                 -         -        -  500.0              t34.7    367.7                                         716.4
5*taT      TRl ItENT  1                      -  2.55.0  2t.00            -        -        -        -5100.0           -  3449.7  266.3            -        -        -        - 7*059.0
C. fA. 1S13n1: _cE        c   SlUT       250.0        -        -    250.0         -        -    250.0  750.0      2.2          -        -    318.4         -        -    352.6   943.2
8. MONS FM PILC  StFF                    100.0    100.0    100.0      50.0     50.0     50.0        -  45.0    1to.?    11.            2.6     W7        5.      60.1        -    45.3
E. team  EU 3gm                           25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0     25.0     25.0        -  150.0       27.2     29.1      30.6     31.8     32.9     34.1        -   15.7
Towal IIIIEI Cos"                         1 .0  3,950.0  2MM*    325.0            75.0     75.0    250.0 90.0   209.-l  5319.6  3,742.5    413.9           ".      102.2    152.6 1209.9
Total                                      1.6.0  3.950.0  2.65.0    325.0         75.0     75.0    250.0 90o0.0   2.02.1  5931f.0  3,742.5    413.9        6.8    102.2      52.6 12.069.9
0- X



OVAL
sDMi MORmAl IrIBaT0iI  n PROJECT
Suarv Accounts by Year
Rose Cuts
(NR '000}                                  Foreig* Exchne
19171196 1m6anot 1m/1    19o90/11m t99m /19     2nm  lg2113 193 4  Total     S    Anmit
3= m   = : -g mm  =                                       m=                      =
it 1'f     COSTS
A. LMS ACWUISIUN                              -    500.0   5S0.0    500.0    500.0    500.0          -    2,500.0   0.0       0.0
3. CIVI  0K
1. CFIIITACTS                        20,493.0 104,763.0 176,388.0 190#566.0 116,902.0 70140.0     -  679,274.0  73.6 500,151.8
2. IDILDIUB                           19340.0  1U420.0    96o.o    980.0    980.0    200.0    100.0   6h500.0  55.4  3h600.0
3. FUL  ACCIUIT                       2,700.0  2,400.0  2,700.0  3.000,0  9,600.0  9,900.0 10P100*0   40300.0  30.0  12,090.0
Sub-Total CIUIL NMOUS                   25,033.0 108t603.0 160,063.0 1949548,0 127,482.0 80,140*0 10,200.0  726,074*0  71.0 515,8421.
Cs EWIN4INT I YNIClES                    4,9190 37.152.0  1.295.0 5,B276.0  1M292.0  1,232.0  1,100.0  105,266.0  99.5 104,714*3
D. TECN. ASSISTANCE I TIRPAINI
1. CONSILTANCIES                      9,608.0 11,608.0 I117m70   6,922.0  6t672.0  6672.o0  6,2680   t59,42.0  83.6  499972.0
2. TME. MSIST. F02 TLRINING             125.0    125.0    125.0     75.0     75.0     75.0        -       600.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-Totl TECH. ASSmSTAE 8 TRAINING       9733*0  11,933*0 11t970  6,997*0  67470  6,747,0  6,268B0   60.342.0  82.8  49,9M.o0
E. ESTAILISNIENT                           718.0    813,0    9160    931.0    969,0    983.0    9110    69243.0   0.0          0.0
Totl INVESTIENT CaST                      40,403.0 159001*0 194,676*0 261,252.0 136"990.0 89,602.0 18,49*.0  900,425*0  74.5 670,528.1
TOtWl RASELIE COSTS                        40,403*0 159,001.0 194,67*0 261,252.0 136,990.0 69.602*0 14,4o   900,425.0  74.5 670,528.1
PI"uical Cantingmnesi                     S144#0  19,874.9 25,100*9 29#6813  16,997#7 119162.0  2#384,9  1109345.9  74.1  81,786.2
Price Contin imits                        2,373*7 23,501.1 419096.2 64,016.1 40466391 31,204.5  7.7498  211,105.4  67.  1434358
Total PROJECT COSTS                        48.420,7 202376.9 260475.1 354,949.9 1949651*6 131,966*5 2,633.7.U1,221.876.3  73.3 895,750.1
II---  ---  a  -    =        -    -   -: " ..21=       _ g           a8 =a= 
Fonign Exchange                          31,38953 160,318.7 195,213.1 275,965.4 132,171.2 87,275.3 13,421.1  395,750.1   0.0   0.0
-__   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t
SMt
0



-84-                             AEMiX 2
NEPAL
SUISARI NORANG ICRIGATION II PROJECT
Irrigation Systes Operation and Water Management
Table of Contents
Introduction
Operational Characteristics of the Modified Stage I Area Irrigation System
Operational Characteristics of the Stage II Area Irrigation System
water Supply and Demand
Water Management Objectives
Water Delivery Schedules
System Maintenance
Management Organization
List of Figures
1. Schematic Showing Proposed Layout of Minor CommAnd Areas, Canals
and Associated Structures in the Stage II Project Area



-85-                            Annex 2
Page 1
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Irrigation System Operation and Water Management
Introduction
1.      The original Sunsari Morang scheme, as handed over to HMGN by GOI
(in 1975), has proved to be incapable of providing an equitable and timely
supply of water to all farmers of the SMIP command area. Within the command
area of the project in the original design, farmers on the upper reaches of,
and adjacent to, the canals are able to take whatever supply they need when-
ever the system is running, and do so at the expense of the tail-end farmers.
Under the Stage I project, the design of the improved system over 9,750 ha
was intended to rectify the operational shortcomings of the original design.
It is fully gated down to intake structures serving chaks of about 50 ha.
Thus, operationally, it must run with varying flows in all levels of the
distribution system. Moreover, the highest discharge at 50-ha chak intakes
is 66 1/sec. This requires that flow be subdivided within the chak since the
stream size, which can be handled effectively by farmers with present irriga-
tion techniques, averages about 35 1/sec. It is already evident that the
operation of this system poses a management problem to the operations staff
of SNIP. However, only relatively minor modifications need to be made to the
system design in the Stage I area in order to improve its operational charac-
teristics. Similarly, a delivery system design is proposed for the new Stage
II area (16,700 ha), which would require relatively simple operations.
Operational Characteristics of the Modified Stage I Area Irrigation System
2.      The present design characteristics of the irrigation system in the
Stage I area are as follows:
(a) the distributary and minor canals are sized for duty of 0.54 1/sec/ha
plus losses, and flows on all elements of the system are controlled
by undershot gates;
(b) the chaks are 50-60 ha, have gated intake structures sized to deliver
up to 66 1/sec, and structures are located on all delivery canal
elements from the distributary to the minors;
(c) the watercourses are designed for discharges of up to 66 1/sec and
extend to gated division boxes at about 10 ha; and
(d) the division boxes are designed to deliver a flow of about 25 1/sec
to the 10-ha areas, but can deliver about 37 1/sec with a small



-86-                             Annex 2
Page 2
increase of head (about 7 cm); this implies that the chak intake
stream of 66 1/sec must be subdivided between two or more division
box outlets.
3.      The modifications to the irrigation system design would produce the
following operational characteristics:
(a)  all canals below the distributary head regulator would operate con-
tinuously at full supply level (FSL) whenever the head regulator was
opened;
(b)  the intake structure flows to the 50-60 ha chaks would be equivalent
to 0.5 1/sec/ha on the actual area of the chak, giving streams of
25-30 l/sec;
(c)  all chaks would receive water simultaneously whenever the dis-
tributary head regulator was opened;
(d)  the chak stream would be delivered through watercourses to 14 gated
outlets at about 4-ha sub-chaks;
(e) the full chak stream wc,t'd be rotated between outlets over a period
of 14 days, and each sub-chak would take water for a length of time
within the 14-day period equivalent to its area as a proportion of
the chak area; thus the period of operation to a sub-chak would
generally be about one day; and
(f)  within the outlet commands, the full chak stream would be rotated
among farmers for periods proportional to the areas of their hold-
ings.
Operational Characteristics of the Stage II Area Irrigation System
4.      The delivery system design for the Stage II area would allow the
distributaries down to the minor canal offtakes to operate continuously with
regulated and varying flows, while the minor canals would operate in an "on
or off" mode.l/ Figure 1 shows a schematic of the canal system and struc-
tures in the Stage II area. Any minor canal bifurcations would be equipped
with proportional dividing structures and would be ungated. An "on" period
would be one week, and "off" periods would be multiples of one week. All
chaks on a minor canal would take water simultaneously through an inlet
structure that would consist of ungated fixed-discharge devices (adjustable
proportional modules - APM) during an "on" period, when the canal would be
run at FSL. The chak commands would average about 28 ha with a range of
20-40 ha. The water supply to a chak during an "on" period would be equiv-
alent to 1.1/sec/ha of the chak area. The watercourses would be extended
from the chak intake to seven gated outlets, each serving about 3-5 ha; thus
the chaks would be divided into seven approximately equal sub-chak areas.
1/ The minor would operate either "on" at full design discharge or "off"
by shutting the head gate.



-87-                              Annex 2
Page 3
The full chak water supply would be allocated to each sub-chak for a period
of about one day during an "on" period. The water supply to the sub-chak
would be rotated to its farmers for periods proportional to their holdings.
5.      Water Management Study.  The objective of the design concepts and
operation procedures for both the Stage I and Stage II areas is to introduce
strict RWS in their commands. However, the RWS procedure is new to Nepalt
although it is to be implemented in the Narayani Irrigation project. Because
of the importance of adopting the practical application of the design con-
cepts and operation procedures to Nepal's situation, a water management study
would be conducted to evaluate possible further improvements which are often
identified only be practical application of water management and operational
arrangements such as those proposed under the project. Accordingly, the
project provides for a water management study over a two-year period. Draft
terms of reference of the proposed study are given in the Attachment to this
Annex. The study would be managed by the M&E Division (Annex 6).
Water Supply and Demand
6       The Chatra Main Canal (CMC), which has a head capacity of 45.3
m /sec, takes water from the Kosi River through a gated head regulator,
inflows to the canal being controlled by natural river levels. The CMC has
been planned to serve a CCA of about 58,000 ha. The flow on the Kosi river
is always greatly in excess of the design capacity of the head regulator and
headreach of the main canal (Table 3), and there are no legal limitations on
the quantity of water that Nepal can divert from the river. Thus, the water
supply to the project is basically controlled by the capacity of the CMC and
is equivalent to about 0.8 1/sec/ha at the intake, assuming that the system
will serve about 58,000 ha at full development. However, the canal system
must be closed for maintenance for two periods of three to four weeks from
mid-October to mid-November and two to three weeks in March. In addition,
unscheduled closures of the CMC headgates may be necessary when the sediment
load in the river water is excessive. Other unscheduled closures may take
place as a result of cross-drainage flooding, which in the past has breaches
to the canal section and structural damage. Accumulation of trash at the
headgate screens of the CMC has also caused closures. However, unscheduled
closures are relatively infrequent, and improvements under the project would
reduce the risk of such closures.
7.      The entire SMIP area is underlain by a prolific aquifer system with
considerable potential as a water resource because of the high recharge from
both rainfall and the surface water irrigation system. This groundwater
potential has only been developed to a limited extent at present. However,
pr.vate farmers are increasingly installing shallow tubewells equipped with
diesel engine powered pumps. 1/ It is believed that the limited water supply
provided by the surface water irrigation system will, in the future, give
farmers an incentive to increase their overall supply by developing
groundwater for conjunctive use through privately owned shallow tubewells.
1/ The aquifer system is also suitable for the development of deep,
high-discharge tubewells equipped with vertical turbine pumps.



-88-                              Annex 2
Page 4
8.      The design cropping intensity in the Stage II area has been taken to
be 1781, with essentially 1001 crop cover, mainly of rice, in the kharif
season. 1/ The irrigation water requirements at the head of the CMC for the
selected cropping pattern are shown as monthly volumes and monthly average
flow rates in Table 11. The conveyance system efficiency from the CMC head
to the field boundary is estimated to be about 65X during the peak demand
periods. The field irrigation efficiency is takers to be 65% for all crops,
so that overall project water efficiency is assumed to be .1^t 421.  The
maximum water supply at the field would be equivalent to 4.4 mm/day o-;  the
CCA of 58,000 ha.
Water Management Objectives
9.      The objectives of the water management improvement program ares
(i) to deliver water in a timely and equitable manner to all farmers in the
rehabilitated area of the command; (ii) to deliver water to farms at a flow
rate that enables efficient on-farm irrigation; (iii) to notify the farmers
before tha beginning of the rabi season of the times they will receive their
allocations by preparing operation schedules that take into account the
physical constraints of the network; and (iv) so far as is possible, adapt
the delivery schedules to crop requirements. To achieve these objectives, it
would be necessary to make project management and the chak water users'
groups (WUGs) fully ccnversant with their tasks by providing full and
thorough training.
Water Delivery Schedules
10.     During the rabi season, when rainfall is insignificant and crop water
requirements must be met by irrigation, water delivery schedules for the
system would be pre-determined and all users would be notified in advance of
their place in the schedule. During foreseeable kharif shortages, water
deliveries would be scheduled following criteria similar to those applied for
the rabi, and the cultivators would be informed in advance of the arrange-
ments for the scheduled deliveries. During unforeseeable kharif shortages,
the system would be operated according to demand up to the limits imposed by
its capacity.
System Maintenance
11.     The proposed water management program can be implemented only if the
system is properly maintained (Annex 7). To ensure effective maintenance,
the SMIP staff would be provided with adequate transportation and equipment
that would enable them to inspect and maintain the canalst drains, and
associated infrastructure on a regular basis. The provision of a desilting
I/ It should be noted that the farmers choose to plant a very high intensity
of rice and gamble on the rainfall, but there is no way that the irriga-
tion water supply could support this kharif crop intensity if a dry
period occurs during the rains and thus creates an extreme peak demand.
In such circumstance, the crop will inevitably suffer.



-89-                              Annex 2
Page 5
basin equipped with hydraulic dredgers on the CxC headreach would alleviate
many of the distribution system maintenance problems that have plagued the
project to date, and made it very difficult, if not impossible to manage
efficiently. Minor maintenance of watercourses in the chaks is expected to
be provided by farmers through the WUG organizations, and farmers would
construct and maintain field channels below watercourse outlets.
Management Organization
12.     The SMIP system would be operated through two distinct but interre-
lated management levels (Chapter 5, Main Report). The canal system from the
CxC head regulator down to the chak intakes would be operated by the opera-
tions staff of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Division. Below the chak
intakes, the watercourse system and the field channels would be operated by
the WUGs under the guidance of the project staff through the Water Users'
Group Organization Unit of the O&M Division (para 14). It would be the
individual farmer's responsibility to manage the water supply on his farm.
13.     The tasks at each management level have been clearly defined, so that
a logical operation plan and procedures can be formulated to manage the water
supply efficiently through the seasonal irrigation cycles. Facilities would
be provided and financial and institutional arrangements would be made under
the project to enable the operations staff to function efficiently. The
performance of the irrigation service would be monitored.
14.     Water Users' Groups (WUGs).  If the water supply is to be managed
successfully, the farmers in each chak must be organized into WUGs and the
groups trained in the management of rotational water supplies (RWS) at the
chak level. The Water Users' Group (MUG) Organization Unit of the O&M Divi-
sion (para 5.05(c) Main Report) would organize and train the WUGs. The
Chairman of a MUG would be elected from its membership. The WUGs would be
formed imediately in areas where an improved irrigation system has been
provided, and in advance of completion of the field channel system in new
areas. This procedure would enable the MUG Organization Unit to deal with a
responsible body of farmers in designing a rational layout and providing
right-of-way for farmers to construct field channels. 1/ The water users
would be informed of the procedures for assessing and collecting water char-
ges, of their legal rights, and of actions to be taken in disputes or
problems relating to water supplies.
15.     To function effectively, the MUGs need statutory powers.  Accord-
ingly, HKGN should take all such actions as shall be necessary to make the
Water Users' Groups of SKIP statutory bodies with sufficient power to: (i3
supervise and enforce the distribution of water among their members in
proportion to the size of their holdings; (ii) cause their members to con-
struct and maintain the required field channels, including field drainages
adjoining their holdings and any other section of the field channels and
1/ The farmers now use field-to-field irrigation for the main rice crop.
However, field channels are essential for effective distribution of *4ter
in the dry season and are desirable for the wet season.



-90-                               Annex 2
Page 6
field drainages that does not skirt commandable areas; and (iii) in case o0
default, arrange for such work to be done at the cost of the defaulters,
provided that in the event that a Water User's Group does net carry out such
maintenance work, the Borrower shall, at the expense of such Water Userst
Group, carry out the construction and maintenance work irn question.



NEPAL
SUNSAHI MOUiRS IRRiGATION II PROJECT
SCHEMATIC SHOWING PROPOSED LAYOUT OF MINOR COMMAND AREAS, CANALS
AND ASSOCIATED STRUCTURES IN THE STAGE It PROJECT AREA
COata fin Canal (ClIC)
fufar         Spsi a                          Disstibutaw
(CCa                            (CCA 0001 Isb)
Di}<
* hee reguatr at~u
cnc ouftdI 
Crow Treilaw    I on
distselbaty,
*   w cami bead hee
aEin he
E             i 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



-92-                          ANNEX 3
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultancy Services
Table of Contents
Introduction
Engineering consultant's Responsibilities
- Procurement of Civil Works
Supervision of Implementation of Civil Works
- Procurement of O&N Equipment
- Assistance to the Authority's Monitoring and
Evaluation Division
- On-the-Job Training
List of Tables
1. Foreign and Local Consultants for Construction Supervision



AnsiLl
-93.                            Page  1
,NEPAL
SUNSARI MOSANG IRRIGATION II PROJlZT
General Ternn of etfereace for Enaineerina Consultancv Services
,lntrodugtio
1.      These Terms of Reference (TOR) describe the consultants' respon-
sibilities with regard to the engineering and associated works to be carried
out under the Sunsari Norang Irrigation II Project. The TOR also define the
assistance that the consultants would be expected to provide to the project
authority for the procurement of plant and equipment, the monitoring and
evaluation of the project works during construction and subsequent operation,
and for on-the-job training of project staff. About 110 man-months of for-
eign consultant services and about 452 man-months of local consultancy serv-
ices would be provided (Table 1 of this annex).
2.      The engineering works to be implemented include:  (i) repairs and
improvements to the Chatra Main Canal (CMC); (ii) improvements of desilting
operations; (iii) modification to the irrigation and drainage works of the
Stage I area (9,750 ha) to achieve the defined operational characteristics
(Annex 2); (iv) rehabilitation and improvements to the irrigation and
drainage systems of the Stage II area (16,700 ha) to achieve the defined
operational characteristics (An'.ex 3); and (v) construction of buildings.
3.      The TOR are prepared providing that:  (a) the project authority, its
present engineering consultants, and the Bank's appraisal mission have
defined and agreed on the basic design and operational characteristics to be
applied in the Stage I and Stage II areas; (b) the authority's present
engineering consultants will, by June 1987, have: (i) prepared detailed
designs, bills of quantities, and cost estimates for the entire civil works
to be implemented under the project for the irrigation and drainage improve-
ments in the SMIP area; (ii) prepared tender documents for the above works,
and suitably packaged them for procurement through ICi, together with an
implementation schedule; and (iii) issued the call for tender for the works.
namieerina Consultants' Responsibilities
4.      Procurement of Civil Works.  The consultants would assist the project
authority with the technical and fiscal evaluations of the tenders received.



Page 2
5.      Sugervision of ImnLementation of Civil Works.  With the assistance of
the project authority, Il the consultants would supervise the implementation
of the civil works by the appointed contractors and by force account, to
ensure that the works are constructed according to specifications. The
consultants would be responsible for making any design modifications that may
become necessary during construction, and would maintain detailed records of
the "as built" designs of all facilities and of the actual quantities of the
material and works involved.
6.      Procurqent of O&M Equipment.  Specifications and tender documents
for the equipment to be procured have been prepared and calls for tender have
been issued. The consultants would assist the project authority with the
technical and fiscal evaluations of the tenders received for the equipment.
7.      Assistance to the Authority's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Divi-
alga. An M&E Division has been established in the project authority to
monitor and evaluate: (i) the physical and fiscal progress of project
implementation; (ii) the operational performance of the completed parts of
the system; (iii) the maintenance of completed parts of the system; and (iv)
the agricultural performance of the completed part of the system. The con-
sultants would be required to work closely with the M&E Division, par-
ticularly in respect of acquiring, storing and retrieving information on the
construction and O&M of the project, and would assist in-preparing progress
reports on the project's performance for the Board and the Bank/IDA. The
consultants would provide assistance as specified in their contract for the
operation of the M&E Unit and for training its staff.
8.      On-the-Job Trajing.  The consultants would be required to provide
on-the-job training (to the extent specified in their contract) to the
engineering staff of the project authority at all levels and in all fields
of activities (survey, design, construction, quality control, and OM). The
consultants would be required to keep the records needed to monitor and
evaluate this training activity in terms of numbers trained, types of train-
ing, and effectiveness of the training effort.
1/ The assistance to be provided by the project authority to the ccnsultants
would be specified in the contractual agreement.



Anana3I
Table 1
-95-
gm
UISARI MpERANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Forsign ad Local Consultants fog Constructioa Supervision
Ttem               Dseliption                        Mau mouth
A. Foreign Consultants
1.       Team Leader - Senior Engineer                  56
2.       Construction Engineer                          42
3.       Short-term Specialist                          12
Total                                       110
B. LQCal Cosueltants
1.       Construction Engineer (8 no.)                 452



-96-
AL
8UJl8JlU MIOBG CICATIONSQ   II p'DJC
Trailling
Table of Content
nu-Service Training of Project Staff
Training of Agricultural Staff, VWUG Leaders aud Farmers
List of Tables
1. Draft Syllabi for Training Project Staff
2. Draft Syllabi for Trainiug Agricultural Staff, VUG
Leaders, and Farmers



Annex 4
_97_                             Page  1
NEPAL
SUNSARI NORANC IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Training
In-Service Training of Project Staff
1.      The project authority would provide about 1t500 man-days of training
to various categories of project staff, At the beginning of the project, the
AEs, Overseers, and Supervisors of the Construction Division (21 persons -
para 5.04(b), Main Report) would be trained in specific duties relating to
construction supervision. This training would include: (i) the reading of
plans and specifications; (ii) principles of earth, masonry, and concrete
construction; (iii) basic surveying; (iv) construction quality control; and
(v) record keeping. The course would last about 14 days and the construction
supervision consultants would assist with this training.
2.      The Age and Overseers of the Canal Management Units of the O&M Divi-
sions (para 5.04(c), Main Report) would be trained in a range of subjects
related to improving system operations and water management techniques. The
numbers of ARs and Overseers in the units would increase from 33 in the first
year of the project to 42 in the sixth year. The training would be provided
in two 14-day courses, each for about 20 people. The courses would be held
in the second and fifth years of the project.
3.      The gate operators of the Canal Management Units would be trained in
the duties and responsibilities involved in operating the improved irrigation
systems for RUE (para 5.06, Main Report). The number of gate operators would
increase from 32 at the start of the project to about 46 in the seventh year.
The training would be provided in two 7-day courses, each for about 20
people. The courses would be hold in the second and fifth year of the
projecto The Ahs, Overseers, and Supervisors of the WUG Organization Units
of the O&W Divisions total 21 persons. These staff would be trained in
specific aspects of their tasks, including the formation of WUGs and their
functions in operating the irrigation system for RUS at the chak level, and
the layout of field channel systems. The training would be provided through
one 14-day course, held in the first year of the project. SummAries of the
proposed courses are presented in Table 1 of this annex.
Training of Agricultural Staff, WUG Leaders, and Farmers
4.      The DOA, in collaboration with the project authority, would provide
training for WUG leaders in rotational water supply (RWS) at the chak level
and in improved water management at the field level. The course would
explain in simple terms the objective., procedures, responsibilities, and



-98-                               Annex 4
Page 2
rules of water allocation and distribution as it affects individual farmers
and farmers within a WUG.  About 800 WUG leaders are expected to be trained
over the project period through a series of 5-day courses, each for about 20
members. The DOA would also provide training for about 50 field extension
workers in on-farm water management (crop, water, and soil re'ationships) and
irrigation farming techniques applicable to typical farmers in the project
area. The training would be provided in the first and second years of the
project through two 10-day courses, each for about 25 members. The DOA would
also provide training to about 2,000 lead farmers in on-farm water management
and RWS at the chak level through 4-day courses, each for 20-30 members.
Summaries of the proposed courses to be run by DOA are given in Table 2 of
this annex.
5.      The DCA would also have overall responsibility for operating and
staffing the Jhumka Training Center. DOA would provide full-time training
officers, who would be assisted by project staff and other WA staff in
certain subjects.
6.      Under the project, key foreign experts would supervise and train the
technical staff who would be operating the dredgers at the desilting
facility. This service would be obtained through a "service contract" from
the supplier chosen for the dredging equipment as part of the procurement
package (Annex 3).



XAL
8OUShRX E3AUM  IRRIflON II PRO3R1    T
I. Proiect Authority Staff
AUa and Overseers, Canal Manasgent Units, O&W Divisions                           Alas  Overseers and Supervisors, Constructioa Divieion
(a) Length of training;  14 days                                                  (a) Length of training:  14 days
(b) Syllabus:                                                                     (b) Syllabus:
Classroom   Field                                                                 Classrom   Field
- hr _ - -                                                                        -hra--
(i) Duties aud responsibilities                     3         -                   (i) Duties and responsibilities of a                3          -
(ii) Rules and regulations                           3          -                       construction inspector
(iii) Project organixation                            6          -                 (ii) Reading and understanding plans                18
(iv) System operation and irrigation                 6         12                       and specifications
scheduling to chak intakes                                                (iii) Construction inspector's daily                   3         -
(v) Rotational water supply vithin                  3          6                       reports
the chak                                                                    (iv) Principles of earth construction               12         6
(vi) Water Users' Group organization                 3          -                  (v) Principles of masonry construction             12          6
(vii) Water measuremnet and devices                   6          6                 (vi) Priaciples of concrete construction            12          6
(viii) Crops, water requirements, farm                 6          6                (vii) Basic surveying                                 -          6
operations
(is) Hydrological measurements                       6          6           (c) Umber of courses:  1 (2! persons/course)
(), Information flow to 161 Division                6          -          (d) Place of training:  Project Beadquarters
(a) Trainers: Project authority staff and consultants
(c)  Xumber of courses:  2 (20 persons/course)                                    (f) Preparation of course material:  by trainers
(d)  Place of training:  Project Headquarters
(e)  Trainers:  Project authority staff and DOA staff
(f) Preparation of coure material: by trainers
A*s. Overseers and Supervisors. WUG Ormanization Units. OCK Divisions             Cate Operators. CAnal Hansaement Units. 063 Divisions
(a) Length of training:  14 days                                                  (a) Lengtb of training:  7 days
(b) Syllabus:                                                                     (b) Syllabus:
Classroom   Field                                                                 Classro>os   1je1d
-----hrs-- -
(i) Duties and responsibilities                     3          -                  (i) Duties and responsibilities                     3          -
(ii) Rules and regulations                           3          -                 (ii) Rules and regulations                           3          -
(iii) Project organization                            6          -                (iii) Project organization                            3          -
(iv) System operation and irrigation                 3          6                 (iv) System operation and irrigation                12         12
scheduling to chak intake                                                         scheduling to chek intakes
(v) System operation and rotational                 6         12                  (v) Water measurement and devices                   3          3
water supply within the chak                                                (vi) Information flow to ME6 Division                3          -
(vi) Design and construction of                      6          6
field channel systems                                                (c) Number of courses:  2 (20 personaS/courSe)
(vii) water Users' Group organisation                 3          -           (d) Place of training:  Project Headquarters
(viii) Water measurement and devices                   6          6           (e) Traiaers:  Project authority staff
(ix) Crops, water requirement, farm                  6          6           (d) Preparation of course material:  by trainerS
operations
(z) Information flow to HR Division                 6         -
(c)  Number of courses:  1 (21 persona/course)                                                                                                                  D  X
(d)  Place of training: Project Headquarters
(e) Trainers: Project autbority staff and DOA staff
(f) Preparation of course material: by trainers



NPL
SUtER! MORANI IMICATION II PIOJECT
Trainialt
II. Department of Asriculture Staff
A. Extension Service Staff
Junior Technicians qd Junior Techaical Asistanta                                  Paenchavat level Agricultural hesisagta
(a) Length of training:  10 days                                                 (a) Length of training:  10 days
(b) Syllabus:                                                                    (b) Syllabus:
ClarMo2    Field                                                                 Clseroum   1e
-  hr--                                          ----br-
(i) Objectives of Sunari Morang Project            2         -                   (i) Objectives of Sunsari Korang Project           2          -
(ii) system operation nd irrigation                                              (ii) System operation ad irrigation
scheduling to chaba                           4        16                        scheduling to ebiks                           2         16
(iii) Ns within the cbhas                            4        16                 (iii) UwS within the chaks                            4        16
(iv) 8oil/later/plant relationships                 6         6                  (iv) $oillwater/plant relationship                   4         8
(v) Physiologicel cycle of paddy and                                             (v) Physiological cycle of paddy and
other major crope                             6         4                        other "jar crops                               6         4
(vi) Improved cultural practices under                                           (vi) Improved cultural practices under
controlled irrigtion water supply             S         a                        controlled irrigation water supply             6        10
(c) ll ber of course:  1 (25 persons/course)                                       (c) Ih Rber of courses:  1 (25 persons/course)
(d) Place of training:  Jhlmma Trainint Ceater                                     (4) Place of traiting:  JAwaka Training Center
(e) Trainers.:  Etension SUS (Irrigation) and                                     (a) Trainers:  Bxtension MSS (Irrigation) cad
project autbority sta£f                                                            project autbority staff
(f)  Preperation of course material:  by trainer                                   (f)  Preparation of course material:  by trainers
Ill. Psmera and Paxmsra' Or animatEiom
A.  Vsrm5ei  Orsaniztinn  (Mater Us   Grouo Leaders)                              S.  Proaiect Farmers (Lead FPArers)
(a) Length of trainigng      days                                                 (a) Leagtb of traiaing:  4 days
(b) Syllabus:                                                                     Cb) Syllabus:
Clazss>      il                                                                   lslaa        il
- -hra                                                                                   brc 
Ci) Purpose and oblibetio"s of VUG                                               (i) SoillwaterJplaea relationships                  2         6
co mittee                                     2         -                  (ii) Use of fertilizers and pesticides              2          4
Cii) Obligation. ad rights of WUM                                                (iii) Use of iUproved seeds                          1         3
membership                                    2         -                  (iv) Cultural practices under controlled
(iii) System operation and irrigation                                                    irrigation water upply                        4        10
schedulins to chaks                           2         a
(iv) A;S within the chak                            2         a            (e) Member of courses:  80 (25 perons/course)
(v) Field channel system, layout                                          (d) Place of training: JhimaU Traiaing Ceeter/Subeenter
and purose                                    2         6            (e) Traiaers:  SUB (irrigation)
(vi) Maintenance of the micro distribution                                 (f) Preparation of course materials:  by trainers
system                                        2         6
(e)  Number of courses: 40 (20 persons/course)
(d)  Place of training:  JbumkS Training Canter                                                                                                                 I
(e) Trainers: -U a Organization Unit staff, Operations
section of 06G Division
(f) Preperation of course material: by treiner.



ANNEX 5
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Table of Contents
Objectives
Organisation
Specific Monitoring and Evaluation Activities
- Construction Monitoring
- Monitoring Expenditures on New Works
- Completed System Operation and Maintenance Monitoring
- Monitoring of Water Charge Collection
- Monitoring of Agricultural Inputs
- Monitoring of Crop Prices
- Farm Surveys
- Studies



Annex S
Page l
-102-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Objectives
1.      The basic purpose of project monitoring and evaluation is to provide
project management with timely information on the status of all aspects of
the project, so that it can compare actual and planned developments and can
make informed management decisions. Specific objectives of monitoring and
evaluation are:
(a) to determine whether project works are constructed according to
planned schedules, and to identify causes and suggest remedies for
any delays;
(b) to provide information on project expenditures for both new works
and for O&M of completed works, and to compare actual and planned
expenditures;
(c) to provide information on the performance of the completed irrigation
and drainage system, particularly in regard to water deliveries at
the chak and farm levels;
(d) to collect and collate information on the provision of farm inputs
to the project beneficiaries;
(e) to assess changes in agricultural productivity in the project area;
and
(f)  to provide project management with earlv warning of any problems
arising during project implementation or operation.
Organization
2.      Monitoring and evaluation activities would be undertaken by the
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Division, which would be headed by an Execu-
tive Engineer (ER). In carrying out the various engineering related tasks of
the division, the EE would be assisted by three Assistant Engineers (AE), who
would be responsible for monitoring works, financial expenditures, and water
deliveries. Agricultural aspects of the division's work would be directly
supervised by a Senior Monitoring and Evaluation Officer (SHEO), who would be



-103-                            Annex S
-103-                   ~~~~Page  2
assisted by a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer (MEO), 5 Junior Technicians
(JT) and 15 Junior Technical Assistants (JTA). The division would be
provided with ancillary office staff and drivers for the division's vehicles.
Specific Monitoring and Evaluation Activities
3.      Construction Monitoring.  Day-to-day supervision of the construction
of new works would be the responsibility of the Construction Division of the
project authority. This division would be provided with strong support from
engineering consultants who would maintain detailed records of all construc-
tion activities. The M&E Division would be provided with planned construc-
tion schedules, and would obtain from the Construction Division the informa-
tion required to enable it to monitor actual construction progress. In the
case of delays between planned and actual construction progress, the M&E
Division, with assistance from the Construction Division, would identify the
causes of such delays and suggest the remedial measures necessary to
accelerate implementation of the works and to avoid delays in the future.
Normal progress in construction would be reported in the M&E Division's
routine reports to project management (para 10); important delays and pos-
sible remedies would be reported to project management as soon as they became
apparent. This aspect of the M&E Division's work would be the direct respon-
sibility of one AE who would be required to work closely with the AE respon-
sible for monitoring financial expenditures on project works (para 4).
4.      Monitoring Expenditures on New Works.  At the beginning of each
financial year, the M&E Division would be provided with information on
budgeted expenditures, the source of funds, and details of expected costs for
planned new works. The Construction Division would maintain detailed records
of as-built costs of new works as they are completed. The M&E Division would
retrieve from the Construction Division appropriate information to enable
it to monitor actual expenditures in comparison with planned expenditures in
terms of expenditure schedules and actual costs of works. The M&E Division
would also maintain records of disbursements for new works and for
work-related equipment from the IDA credit, and would compare actual and
scheduled rates of disbursement. Periodic financial reports will be prepared
for new works (para 10). Any major deviations from scheduled expenditures
or estimated costs would be reported to project management immediately. This
aspect of the M&E Division's work would be the direct responsibility of one
AE who would be required to work closely with the AE responsible for monitor-
ing construction supervision (para 3) and the financial staff of the
Administration and Finance Division.
5.      Completed System Operation and Maintenance Monitoring.  The M&E
Division would be responsible for monitoring the performance of the completed
irrigation works and water supply systems, and their maintenance requirements
and costs. The source of information on water deliveries down to the intakes
to the chaks would be the Canal Management Units of the O&M Divisions (see
para 5.04(c) of main report). Periodic sampling procedures would be used to
monitor deliveries within the chaks (para 9). The M&E Division would be
provided with the O&M Division's planned delivery schedules at the beginning
of each crop season, and would compare the planned schedules against actual
delivery performance. At the beginning of each financial year, the NM&
Division would be provided with information on budgeted expenditures, the
source of funds, and details of expected costs for O&X of the completed



-104-                           Annex 5
Page 3
works. The O&M Divisions would maintain detailed records of actual expendi-
tures on system O&M. The M&E Division would retrieve from the OEM Divisions
appropriate information to enable it to monitor actual OM expenditures under
various categories, which would include: (a) temporary works on the Kosi
River to ensure flows to the CMC during low flow periodsl (b) operational
cost of the desilting facility; (c) other maintenance works on the CMC; (d)
area-specific maintenance works on the irrigation and drainage system below
the CXC; and (e) unscheduled maintenance works caused by flood damage to the
system. Periodically, the M&E Division would prepare reports (para 10) for
project management concerning the operational performance of the completed
works and their maintenance costs. This aspect of monitoring and evaluation
would be the direct responsibility of one AE of the division's staff.
6.      Monitoring of Water Charge Collection.  The Water Charge Assessment
Unit (see para 5.04(d) of main report) would provide the M&E Division with
information on the water charges assessed against the project beneficiaries
at the end of each assessment year. The M&E Division would obtain informa-
tion from the Revenue Department on the actual water charges collected and
overdues after the conclusion of each year's collection campaign. The
assessment and collection information would be summarized by the M&E Division
in scheduled reports to project management (para 10).
7.     Monitorin; of Agricultural Inputs.  Before each cropping season, the
agricultural section of the 1&E Division would contact the Agricultural
Inputs Corporation (AIC) and the Sajhas for information on the availability
of seeds, fertilizers, and plant protection chemicals in stock in order to
estimate the inputs needed by the project, and to assess the adequacy of
input stocks. Information would also be obtained from the Sajhas on the
actual disposal of the above inputs to derive estimates of their use by
project beneficiaries. The results of these inquiries would be reported to
project management in the appropriate four-monthly reports.
8.      Monitoring of Crop Prices.  The agricultural section of the M1E
Division would make periodic market surveys to obtain information on prices
available for project produce, and this information would be transmitted to
project management in the four-monthly reports.
9.      Farm Surveys.  The main function of the agricultural section of the
MU3 Division would be to conduct on-farm surveys to collect information on
agricultural practices, water availability and management, agricultural
services including extension, cropping patterns, and yields. The section
would administer questionnaires to a representative sample of farmers three
times during the crop season for each of the major crops, and would produce
reports on the results of the surveys. Summaries of the reports would be
included in the appropriate semiannual report to project management.
10.     Reporting ReSuirements.  Every six months, starting from March of
each year, the X&E Division would produce summary reports for project manage-
ment incorporating the information obtained from the activities described
under paras 3-9. The Division would also produce an annual report for
project management including an analysis of progress over the year, con-
straints to progress, and an evaluation of the project's benefits. In addi-
tion to preparing reports for the Board, the M&E Division would prepare all
project progress reports for project management and IDA. Accordingly, the
reporting activity would be organized so that the project authority could



Annex 5
-105-                             Page  4
furnish IDA, commencing on January 1, 1988, and thereafter until the comple-
tion of the project, semiannual project progress reports acceptable in scope
and detail to IDA, and would submit them within two months after the end of
each reporting period. In addition, the M&E Division would be responsible
for preparing a project completion report, in a format agreed with IDA, that
would be submitted not more than six months after the completion of the
project.
11.     Studies.  The M&E Division would be responsible for the agro-economic
and water management studies supported under the project. Agro-economic
surveys of present farm practices, cropping pattern, yields, and characteris-
tics of farm households were carried out during project preparation. To
provide a measure of progress and to evaluate the changes that the proict
would bring about in the above aspects of the farming scene, the project
authority, through a contracted competent agency, would carry out an
agro-economic survey about every three years. Reports summarizing the find-
ings of the initial and follow-up surveys would be prepared by the project
authorities for the Board's perusal, and the M&E Division would be respon-
sible for coordinating this activity. This work would be organized so that,
by June 30, 1989, the base agro-economic survey, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, would be completed and a report summarizing the results
and conclusions of the survey would be submitted to IDA for its review and
comments. Then, in view of IDA's comments on this base report, the survey
would be repeated and additional reports would be submitted to IDA by Septem-
ber 30, 1992 and 1994, for its review and comments. The results and recoi-
mendations of the above surveys would be evaluated and the project authority
would take such remedial action as necessary.
12.     In addition to undertaking the agro-economic study described above,
the MUE Division would be responsible for coordinating the work of the for-
eign and local consultants retained to undertake the water management study
(Annex 3). Under this study, data collection and monitoring and evaluation
would be undertaken by local consultants. A foreign consultant experienced
in water management would specifically supervise this monitoring and evalua-
tion activities, He would provide advice and guidance, particularly with
respect to evaluating the quality and quantity of the data collected and
formulating conclusions and recommendations. The M&E Division would schedule
the study under the terms of reference satisfactory to IDA such that by March
1, 1989, a report summarizing the results and conclusions of the study would
be submitted to IDA for its review and comments.
I



-106-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Establishment and Maintenance Costs
Table of Contents
Establishment
Maintenance
O&N and Cost Recovery
List of Tables
1. Estimated Annual Maintenance Cost of SHIP System with Various
Levels of Irrigation and Drainage System Improvement



Annex 6
-107-                           Page  1
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Establishment and Maintenance Costs
Establishment
1.      The present establishment budget for the entire SMIP command area
is NRs 4.0 M (FY 1986/87) and is intended to cover staff salaries and
allowances, and other incidental establishment costs. The existing staffing
and future staffing requirement through the 7-year life of the project for
all divisions of the project organization are compared in Table 10 of the
Main Report. It is estimated that the incremental staff requirements over
the project period would incur additional expenditures totaling about
MRs 6.3 N (US$279,800) at present prices, and that incremental staff expendi-
tures would peak at about NRs 1.0 M (US$43,950) in the sixth year of the
project and decline to NRs 0.91 N (US$40,800) in the last year of the
project. It should be noted that the numbers in some staff categories (for
example, gate operators) would be reduced during the project period. Annual
and incremental staff salary expenditures and allowances are estimated below:
Cost During Project
Costs                       87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94
Total annual                3,188  3,388  3,514  3,637  3,781  3,831  3,603
Incremental staff cost        718    813    918    931    969    983    911
2.      If it is assumed that total establishment costs, including additional
expenditures for staff salaries, will remain at about NRs 4.0 M (in present
prices), the cost per hectare would be about NRs 69 at full development of
the 58,000 ha. It is recommended that NRs 69/ha for O&M at full development
should form the basis for evaluating the target that would set the level of
water charges that beneficiaries would pay for the recovery of establshment
expenditures, regardless of the area of the command actually developed. If
this concept is applied, government funding would be required to support
establishmenAt costs until the command area is fully developed.
Maintenance
3.      Maintenance includes two types of activities--those that do not
relate drectly to the area being served at any time (common works), and
those that can be related to the area actually irrigated. If a desilting



-108-
Annex 6
Page 2
basin is in operation 1/, maintenance would includes (i) temporary works on
the Kosi River to ensure a water supply at the CMC intake during the low flow
season; (ii) operation and maintenance of a desilting basin with hydraulic
dredgers at the top of the headreach of the CMC; (iii) maintenance of the
CKC, including any necessary desilting and gate repairs along its entire
length; and (iv) maintenance of protection works at major river crossings of
CMC. The maintenance components that can be directly attributed to the area
that has received a rehabilitated and improved irrigation and drainage system
include: (i) maintenance of the distributary and minor canal system serving
the improved area; (ii) maintenance of the watercourse systems within the
chaks; and (iii) maintenance of the drainage system provided for the area.
Table 1 of this Annex shows a breakdown of estimated maintenance costs by
components for various areas with improved irrigation and drainage networks
below the CMC. The annual incremental mainenance costs are estimated in
March 1987 prices as follows:
Cost During Project
Item                      87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93194
-------  - ---gNs Million) ------
Mi) Upstream CXC
headworks                  1.5    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
(ii) Desilting facility          -       -      -      -      6.3    6.3    6.3
(iii) Other CMC works
(t/s of head regulator)   2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3
(iv) Irrigation & drainage
systems (area specific
works)                     0.9    1.1    1.4    1.7    2.0    2.2    2.5
Total             4.7    4.4    4.7    5.0   11.6   11.8   12.1
Present Maintenance
Allocation                2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Incremental Maintenance   2.7    2.4    2.7    3.0    9.6    9.8   10.1
4.      The estimated annual maintenance cost, at full development of the
command area of 58,000 ha served by the CMC, is estimated at about IRs
15.1 M, of which about IRs 9.6 X (64Z) would be for maintenance works
required to keep the Cxc operational, and URs 5.5 M (361) for maintenance
works on the canal distribution and drainage systems (Table 1). Thus, annual
maintenance costs at full development would be equivalent to URs 260/ha (at
1/ If a desilting basin is not provided, maintenance costs would be sig-
nificantly higher than the costs that include a desilting basin.
Moreover, when a large amount of silt is allowed to reach the distribu-
tion system, its effectiveness is reduced and production drops (Annez 2).



-109-
Annex 6
Page 3
March 1987 prices), of which NRs 165/ha would be for maintenance attributable
to the CKC, and NRs 95/ha would be for area-specific works.
5.      It is evident that the beneficiaries could not be expected to sustain
the full cost of the maintenance associated with the CMC while the improved
command area remains only a relatively small proportion of the total CCA.
Nevertheless, such works are essential to maintaining the irrigation service
to the improved command area. It would be equitable to charge that part of
maintenance attributable to the CMC at a flat rate of about NRs 165/ha
regardless of the area actually improved. It would also be equitable to
charge the entire cost of the area-specific maintenance works against the
beneficiaries. Charging in this way would mean that, in theory, HMGN's
annual support to maintenance costs would decline to zero when the total CCA
had received an improved irrigation and drainage network (i.e., at full
development). This concept would set the maintenance component of O&X char-
ges at about NRs 260/ha/yr (at present prices) regardless of the area
provided with an improved irrigation and drainage system.
O&M Costs and Cost Recovery
6.      On the basis of the previous discussion, it is calculated that the
total OM costs at full development of 58,000 ha would be equivalent to about
MRs 330/ha/yr at present prices. In 1986, the Government simplified the
water charge system to a flat rate of NRs 200/ha/yr. This implies that it
would fund about 40% of the actual cost of O&M at full development if this
rate is maintained at present prices, and a considerably higher proportion
of O& costs until the command area is fully developed. The implications in
terms of Government funding requirements are shown below for various stages
of development. The estimates start from the third year of the entire Stage
II project (1989/90), when the desilting facility is planned to be commis-
sioned, and the area actually served with an assured irrigation supply at
that time is assumed to be composed of the Stage I area (9,750 ha), 101
(1,670 ha) of the Stage II area, and about 10,000 ha in what would be the
Stage III project area of 31,550 ha, which are believed to be receiving an
adequate water supply for a water charge to be made.
1989/90      Stage II      Full Develop    t
(21,420 ha)   (36,450 ha)       (58,000 ha)
------ ---- (URs M)------------
08W Expenditures
Establishment                        4.0            4.0             4.0
Maintenance of CMC                   9.6            9.6              9.6
Area-specific maintenance on
improved area only                  1.1            2.5             5.5
Total                          14.7           16.1            19.1
Cost Recovery a/                     4.3            7.3            11.6
Government Support Funding          10.4            8.8              7.5
a7 Assuming a flat rate of URs 200/ha/yr.



-110-                               Annex 6
Page 4
7.      For full recovery of O&M costs on a pro-rata basis for 58,000 ha is
to be achieved, the flat rate of MRs 200/ha/yr will have to be increased to
about NR9 330/ha/yr. HMGD would undertake to increase the flat rate to about
NRs 330/ha/yr for the first full irrigation year after the desilting facility
is commissioned.



Annex 6
Table 1
-111-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Annual Maintenance Cost of the SMIP System with Various Levels
of Irrigation and Drainage System Improvement a/
Area with Improved System
Item    Maintenance Component                 9,750 ha  26,450 ha 58,000 ha
-----(NRs M)------___
A. CMC Components
1. Temporary Works on Kosi R.
at CMC headworks                          1.00        1.00        1.00
2. Desilting works on CMC
including operation of a
desilting basin b/                       6.30         6.30        6.30
3. Other works on CMC including
gate repairs and maintenance
of cross-drainage structures             2.30         2.30        2.30
Subtotal                    9.60        9.60        9.60
B. Area-Specific Components
1. Maintenance of distributary
canals                                  0.44         1.19        2.61
2. Block maintenance, including
drains                                  0.49         1.32        2.90
Subtotal                    0.93        2.51        5.51
Total                      10.53        12.11      15.11
a/ Present provision for maintenance costs is NRs 2.0 N per year.
b/ Excluding the service contract for the desilting facility estimated at
MRs 1.1 M each year (Annex 1, Table 5).



-112-                         AN1X 7
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Table of Contents
Financial Prices
Economic Prices
- Economic Prices for Traded Commodities
- Economic Prices for Nontraded Commodities
- Financial and Economic Prices for Agricultural Inputs
- Economic Prices of the Project Investment Costs
Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis
List of Tables
1. Derivation of Economic Prices for Traded Commodities
2. Financial and Economic Prices
3. Models of Cropping Pattern for the Financial Analysis
4. Crop Budget at Financial Prices



Annex 7
-113-                            Page  1
NEPAL
SUSARI NORANG IRIGATION II PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial Prices
1.      The prices used in the financial analysis are based on the prevailing
farmgate prices (February 1987). For traded and nontraded commodities and
the farm inputs that are not under government control, the financial farmgate
prices were calculated by taking the average wholesale market prices in the
major marketing centers of Sunsari and Norang districts for the preceding
year to November 1986 and then subtracting the marketing margin of about 30%
from the wholesale prices. These prices were verified during field visits
and interviews with farmers. The fixed government prices were quoted as the
farmgate prices for fertilizers, o-her selected chemicals, and improved
seeds. The projected financial prices for future years take into account the
forAseen trends of the international prices of the commodities and the
projected prices in the Indiar markets.
Economic prices
2.      Economic Prices for Traded Comnodities.  The economic price, at
farmgate, of traded agricultural outputs and inputs were derived from the
IBID-projected 1987/88, 1990 and 1995 world market prices.l/ Adjustments
were made for quality, freight, insurance, handling, inland transport, and
processing. A variable exchange rate was applied to convert prices expressed
in U.S. dollars to local currency values; the exchange rate was taken as
US$1.0   NRs 22.5 for 1987/89, and as US$1.0 = NRs 24.8 for 1990/95.  Table 1
of this Annex presents the method of derivation of economic prices for the
traded commodities, including fertilizers.
3.      Economic Prices for Nontraded Commodities.  These prices were derived
from the financial prices using conversion factors. Since the financial
prices were considered to be a poor estimate of the economic value, a stand-
ard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 was used to establish economic prices of
nontraded goods. A somewhat different approach has been used to derive the
economic prices of oilseeds and pulses. In the case of oilseeds, a com-
parison was made with the price of imported oil and a conversion factor of
1/ Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities; IBiD Report No. 814/86,
October 1986. 



-114-                               Annex 7
Page 2
0.9 was calculated. In the case of pulses, the comparison was based on the
price of imported soybeans and a conversion factor of 0.9 was calculated.
4.      Financial and Economic Prices for Agricultural Inputs.  The economic
prices of fertilizer nutrients were derived in the same manner as for other
traded commodities. The economic prices of agro-chemicals, other than fer-
tilizers, were derived by applying the SCF of 0.9. The financial price of
hired agricultural labor in the Terai was taken to be NRs 16.0, of which
about NRs 12.0 is paid in cash and about NRs 4.0 is given in benefits such as
food and permission to collect farm produce during post-harvest. However,
analysis of farm labor supply and demand in Sunsari district indicates that
alternative labor opportunities are scarce, so that the conversion factor
applied is 0.9. Given the high population growth rate, only a small increase
in the economic wage rate has been assumed for the project period. The
conversion factor for the cost of draft animal work is also estimated to be
0.9. The financial and economic prices for outputs and inputs are presented
in Table 2 of this Annex.
5.      Economic Prices of the Project Investment Costs.  Construction of
the project requires the use of equipment, materials, and skilled and
unskilled labor. The proportion and the degree of price distortion of these
costs vary, depending on the proportion of foreign exchange, taxation sub-
sidies, and other forms of support. In order to adjust for cost-price dis-
tortions, a construction conversion factor (CCF) has been applied as follows:
Category                 CCF
Civil works              0.75
Equipment                0.80
Materials                0.80
Imported equipment       1.00
Financial Analysis
6.      Two indicative farm-unit models were constructed to assess the finan-
cial impact of the project on the individual farm unit. The following
assumptions have been used in formulating the farm-unit models and their
cropping patterns and budgets:
(a)  All farm models represent the typical medium textured soils under
surface water irrigation.
(b)  The two farm models represent two farm sizes - farms of 1.4 ha (which
represent the small farm groups of 0.5-3.0 ha that include 471 of all
holdings in the project area and 331 of the land area (para 2.08,
Main Report), and farms of 3.9 ha (which represent the medium farms
of 3.0-5.0 ha that include 101 of all holdings in the project area
and 191 of the land area). Farms of less than 0.5 ha were excluded
from the analysis, as the average size of holding in this farm group
is 0.16 ha (para 2.08, Main Report), and would not be viable as a
farm unit.



-115-                             Annex 7
Page 3
(c) The basic difference between the two farm-size models is that smaller
farms have the tendency to intensify their production, concentrate on
higher-value crops, and eleminate crops such as jute and sugarcane,
whereas the larger farms have lower intensity and include crops such
as jute and sugarcane. The four models of cropping pattern for the
financial analysis are presented in Table 3 of this Annex.
(d) The crop yields and input application data used in the financial
analysis are presented in Tables 5 and 12 of the Main Report.
(e) The models assume that crop yields in the "future without" project
situation would be higher thar. crop yields in the "present" 3itua-
tion, because crop productivities are expected to increase without
the project owing to the impact of the agricultural extension service
and the improvement in input supply and usage.
7.      Individual crop budgets in financial prices are given in Table 4 of
this Annex. A summary of the farm-unit budgets at full development is given
in Table 13 of the Main Report, which also indicates the gross margin and the
net return per farm unit. The return per capita has also been calculated.
Calculations of the financial rate of return were not included in the finan-
cial analysis, because practically all investments in the project would be
public investments.
Economic Analysis
8.      The economic analysis of the project was carried out separately for
two alternative assumed situations: (a) the entire project area, including
the future development of stage III area; and (b) the entire project, area
including the future development of stage III area. The analysis relates to
the following areas of the project.
- complementary works on the Stage I project area - 9,750 ha
- Stage II project area                              - 16,700 ha
- future development of Stage III area               - 31,550 ha
Total              58,000 ha
9.      The benefit and the cost streams (Table 15a and 15b, Main Report) in
the economic analysis are based on the following assumptions:
(a) benefits constitute the return from all incremental production
resulting from the project, net of on-farm production costs (under
assumed situation para 8 (a) assumed situation (a), incremental
benefits of Stage III future "with project" were included; and under
assumed situation para 8 (b), benefits of Stage III future "without
project" were included);
(b) cost streams include: (i) all direct investments; (ii) all incremen-
tal O&M costs; and (iii) expenditure for management improvement and
institution building; and



-116-                              Annex 7
Page  4
(c) for assumed situation part 8 (a), cost of future development works in
the Stage III area were inluded; and for assumed situation para 8
(b), the cost of works of developing Stage III area were not
included.
10.     The following assumptions were used in constructing the cash flow
streams:
(a) Replacement Lifespan. The assumed replacement periods are as fol-
lows: (i) civil works, 50 years; (ii) equipment, 12 years; (iii)
buildings, 30 years; and (iv) vehicles, 8 years;
(b)  Yields, Input Application, and Cropping Intensity.  Crop yields.
input application, and cropping intensity would increase substan-
tially in the "future with" project situation. However, it is
assumed that the future cropping intensity without the project would
be similar to the present situation and that yields of some crops
would increase slightly, owing to improved agro-technical methods and
intensified application of inputs. The expected crop built-up rate
for crop yields and inputs is as follows
Year    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10
(    z)________________
IWO     6  14  28  49  68  84  97  100
1W     20  45  82  92 100
FIO - "future without" project; PI - "future with" project.
I1.     Several sensitivity tests were conducted to measure the impultct of
possible changes in the economic enviroment on the project's stream of
benefits and costs. These included measurements of the economic rate of
return for the overall project and for each of the two project areas under
the following assumptions:
(a) costs up to 20Z;
(b) benefits down by 202;
(c) costs up to 502;
(d) beneifts down by 50%;
(e) costs up to 102; benefits down by 102;
(f) benefits lag by two years;
(g) benefits lag by three years; and
(h) switching values at 12.02.
In addition, for the purpose of evaluating past investments under the Stage I
project during the period 1978/79 through 1986/87, economic analysis of the
project, including sunk cost of Stage I, was also performed.



NEPAL
SUNSARI ORANG tRRGATIOW It  PROJECT
Deriyation of Econgmic Prices for Traded Commodities .L/
(in 1987 Constant Prices)
Unit   Paddy   Wheat      maie    Jute   Sugar              P      K
Projected World Market Price (1987/88)            USS/t    225       142        116     311    215    144    134    75
Quality Adjustment                                   %       85       95         95     100      97    100    1)O  100
World Market Equivalent of Nepalase Product    USS/t    191          135        110     311    208    144    134    75
Freight and Insurance                             USS/t       -        -          -       -      3B     54      69    a9
Border Price at Calcutta Port (CIF or FOB)        USS/t    191       135        114     311    246    198    203   144
Calcutta Border Price in Nepalese Currency 2/  NRs/t  4,289   3,035           2,565  68998  5,535  4.455  4.568 3,240
Domestic Handling and Transport to/from
Calcutta                                         NRs/t   -360    -360        -360    -360    360    360    360   360
Processing or Nutrient Ratio                         %       65      100        100      78      10     46      48    60
Processing Cost                                   NRsIt   -130         -          -    -170   -140        -      -      -
Wholesale Price                                    NRs/t  2.430   2,675       2,205   5.008    450 10.467 10,267 6.000
Transport to/from Farm                            NRs/t    -35       -35        -35     -35    -3S      35      35    35
Economic Farm Gate Price                          NRs/t  2.395   2.640        2.170   4.973    415 10.502 10.302 6.035
ProjectiedWorld Market Price (1990/95)            USS/t    225       161        11i     360    335    199    159    92
Quality Adjustment                                   %       85       95         95      100     95    100    100   100
World Market Equivalent of Nepalese Product    US$/t    271          153        105     360    318    199    159    92
Freight and Insurance                             US$/t       -        -          -       -      25     54      69    69
Border Price at Calcutta Port (CIF or FOB)        US$/t    271       153        105     360    343    253    228   161
Calcutta Border Price in Nepalese Currency 3/  NRs/t  5,382   3.594           2,604   8.928  8.506  6.274  5.654 3.993
Domestic Handling and Transport to/from
Calcutta                                         KRs/t   -360    -360         -360    -360    360    360    360   360
Processing or Nutrient Ratio                         #       65      tOO        100      78      10     46      48    60
Processing Cost                                   NRs/t   -130         -          -    -170    160        -      -     -
Wholesale Price                                    NRs/t  3,134   3.434       2.244   6.513  1.047 14.422 12.529 7.255
Transport to/from Farm                             NRs/t    -35      -35        -35     -35    -35      35      35    35
Economic Farmgate Price                           NRs/t  3.099   3,399       2.209   6.478  1.012 14.457 12.564 7.290
I/  Pricing Basis:
Paddy Rice: Thai, Milled 5%, Broken, FOB Bangkok.
Wheat: Canadian No. 1, Western Red Spring. FOB St. Lawrence.
Maize: US No. 2, Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports.
Jutes Bangladesh White D. FOB Chittagong/Chaina.
Sugar: World, ISA daily price, FOB and Stored at greater Caribbean Ports.
Fertilizers: N; Urea. Any origin, Bagged. FOB N.W. Europe.
P; Triple Superphosphate. Bulk, FOB US Gulf.
K; Potassium Chloride, Bulk, FOB Vancouver.
2/ At an Exchange Rate of USS 1.00 = NRs 22.50.
S/ At an Exchango Rate of USS 1.00 = NRs 24.80
Sources World Bank; Price Prosoects for Major Primary Commodities,                                                                     $4
IBRD Report No. 814/86  October 1986. 
'I4



-118-                               Annex 7
Table 2
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
1987/88                        1990/95
Financial  Economic            Financial  Economic
NRs9/ton)                      NRs/t-onT
Output
Paddy                    2,800      2,400              3,300      3,100
Wheat                    3,400      2,640              3,800       3,400
Maize                    2,700      2,170              2,700       2,210
Oilseeds                 8,200      7,630              9,500       8,840
Jute                     3,800      4,970              4,300      6,478
Sugarcane                  280        415                340         760
Pulses                   6,800      6,100              7,500      6,750
Vegetables               3,300      2,970              3,500       3,150
Potatoes                 3,500      3,150              3,900      3,300
Straw                       75         68                 82          74
Inputs
Fertilizer - N           9,130     10,500             10,500     14,460
- P          6,860      10,300              7,500     12,560
- K          3,500       6,040             3,800       7,290
Manure                      35         32                 42          38
Labor 'NRs/manday)          16         14                 18          16
Draft Animal (NRs/day)      28         25                 32          29



NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION IT PROJECT
Models of CropDino Pattern for the Financial Analysis
Small Size Farm - 1.4 ha                           Medium Size Farm - 3.9 ha
Present and Future Without    Future With          Present and Future Without    Future With
Season  Crop                ha              -           ha       %             ha               %          ha       %_
Kharit  Main Paddy         1.17           84.00        1.17    84.00          3.04            78.00       3.31    95.00
Kharif  Vegetables         0.03            2.00        0.04     3.00          0.04             1.00       0.06      1.50
Rabi    Wheat              0.24           17.00        0.36    26.00           0.39           10.00       0.94    24.00
Rabi    Pulses             0.14           10.00        0.34    24.00           0.27            7.00       0.62    16.00
Rabi   Olaeed             0.11            8.00        0.28    20.00          0.24             6.00       0.47    12.00
Rab1    Potatoes           0.03            2.00        0.04      3.00             0               0        0.06     1.50
Hot     Early Paddy        0.11            8.00        0.22    16.00           0.39           10.00        0.55    14.00
Hot     Maize              0.03            2.00        0.04      3.00          0.23            6.00        0.23     6.00
Hot     Gram                  0               0        0.06     4.00              0               0           0        0
Hot     Vegetables            0               0        0.02      1.00             0               0           0        0
Hot     Jute                  0               0           0         0         0.31             8.00        0.47    12.00
Per.    Sugarcane             0               0           0         0         0.08             2.00       0.12      3.00
1.86          133.00        2.57   184.00          4.99           128.00       6.83   175.00
H!



NEPAL
SIJSARI )DRANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Crop Sudgets at Financial Prices 1/
(MRs/ha)
Value of Use of
Gross Value of Production                 Production Operatings Costs                  Flamiy Own Resources
By-                                                             Gro0s         Draft           Net
CSOD                  Season    Main Crops  Product  Total      Seeds   N    P   K   Manure Chemicals Total  Margin Labor Animal  Total  Return
At Present
Main Paddy            Ihsaif      6.720      263      6,983    200   183      0    0      0     40       423    6.560  1.920    980  2.900   3.660
Vegetables (brinjal)  Iharif    26.400         0      26,400     20   320   135  35       C      0       510   25.890  1.760    784  2.544  23,346
Wheat                 Rabi        4.760       105     4,865    300   183   137    0       0      0       620    4.245  1.104    700  1.804   2.441
Oilseeds              Rabi        4,100        0      4.100    280      0     0    0      0      0       280    3.820    608    672  1,280   2.540
Pulses                Rabi        4.760       75      4.835    350      0     0    0      0      0       350    4.485    560    560  1.120   3.365
Potatoes              Rabi       28.000        0     28.000  3.000   183    69    0    210       0     3.462   24.538  2,000    784  2.784  21,754
Early Paddy           Rabi        4.480      173      4,653    350      0     0    0    140     30       520    4.133  1.440    980  2.420   1.713
Maize                 Rabi        4.320      165      4.485      40     0     0   0    140      20       200   4.285  1.120    700  1,820   2,465
Jute                  Hot         4.940       158     5.098      60   183     0    0    140     20       403    4.695  2.400    700  3.100   1,595
Sugarcane             Per.        7.000        0      7.000    780   593   274  53    140        0     1,840    5.160  2.400  1.120  3.520   1,640
Future Without Proiect
Maim Paddy             a2hrif     8.250      312       8.562    240   210     0    0      0    50        500    8,062  2.250  1,216  3.466   4.596
Vegetables (brinjal)  Kbarif     26.400        0      26.400     25  368   150  38        0      0       581   25.819  1.980    960  2,940  22,879
Wheat                 Rabi        5.700      131      5.831    500   210   150    0       0      0       860    4.971  1.242    800  2.042   2,929
Oilseeds              Rabi        4.750        0      4,750    336      0     0    0      0      0       336    4,414    684    768  1.*52   2,962       1
Pulses                Rabi        5.250       82      5,332    400      0     0    0      0      0       400    4.932    630    640  1,270   3.662
Potatoes              Rabi       31.200        0     31.209'  4.000   210    75    0    252     50     4.587   26.613  2.340  1.056  3,396  23.217       I
Early Paddy           not         5.610      197      5,807    400      0     0    0    168     40       608   5.199  1.620  1.120  2,740   2.459
Maize                 not         4,860      189      5,049      45     0     0    0    168     30       243    4.806    450    960  1,410   3.396
Jute                  not         5.590      172      5.762      64   210     0    0    168    30        472    5,990  2,700    800  3,500   1.790
Sugarcane             Per.        8,500        0      8.500    850  683   300   57    168        0     2.058    6.442  2.700  1.280  3,980   2.462
Future With Project
Main Paddy            Rharif     11.220      394     11,614    240   630   22C   57       0    100     1.252   10,362  2.520  1.440  3.960   6.402
Vegetables (brinjal)  Kharif     84.000        0     84.000      25  525   2.5  57    252    150       1,234   82,766  2.970  1,120  4,090  78,676
Wheat                 Rabi       10.260      221     10,481    400  525   k88   38        0     30     1.181    9.300  1.494  1.024  2.518   6.782
Ojiseeds              Rabi        7,600        0      7,600    336   210      0    0      0     50       596    7,004    720    768  1.488   5.516
Pulses                Rabi        7,500      123      7.623    400   158      0    0      0      0       558    7,065    720    736  1.456   5.609
Potatoes              Rabi       93.600        0     93.600 10,000   683   225  57    252    150    11,367   82.233  2,970  1,216  4.189  78.047
Early Paddy           Hot        11,550      410     11.960    240   630   225   57    168    100      1.420   10.540  2.520  1,440  3.960   6.580
Maize                 Hot         8.100      344      8,444     54   420   150   38    168    50         880    7,564  1.530    960  2.490   5,074
Gram (HUng)           Rot         6.800       98      6.898    160   210   75    0        0      0       445    6.453    900    768  1.668   4.785
Jute                  Hot         6.880      213      7,093      64  315    75   19   168    50          691    6.402  3.150    896  4,046   2.356
Vegetables (Tomatoes) Not        84.000        0      84.000     75   735  26.t  57    252    150      1.532   82,468  3,060  1.120  4.180  78,288
Sugarcane             Per.       11.900        0     11.900    850   945   338   95    168      65     2.461    9.439  3.600  1.600  5.200   4.239
1/  'Present' and 'future without' data refers to Stage rr area only. 'future with' data refers o
to both areas.  For the 'present' 1987/88 financial prices were applied and for 'future without'
and 'future with' 1990/1995 prices were applied.
LiX
> s



Annex 8
-121-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATON II PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project Files
1. Feasibility Study on the Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project (Volumes I
and II), His Majesty's Government of Nepal, June 1985.
2. Feasibility Study on the Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project, Revised
Addendum (Volume III), His Majesty's Government of Nepal,, may 1986.
3.  Household Baseline Study, Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and
Meteorology, January 1985.
4. Updated Cost Estimte on the Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
(Volumes 1-5), Nippon Koei-Hyundai Consulting Engineers, November 1986.
5. The Seventh Plan (1985/1990), National Planning Commissin, HMGN,
June 1985.
6. Handbook of Agricultural Statistics of Nepal, Ministry of Agriculture,
HMGN, September 1986.
7. Economic Survey (FY 1985/86), HMGN, July 1986.
8. Area and Production of Major Crops (1971/1986), Ministry of Agriculture,
August 1986.
9. Program and Budget (1985/86), Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal, 1985.
10.  The Land Tenure System in Nepal, Integrated Development Systems,
Kathmandu, May 1986.
11. Study of 06M Problems in Nepalese Irrigation Projects, No-Frills
Development Consultants, Nepal, December 1984.



C5 to
W">"~~~~~ ~ MFO"           v      oW
t*tN    e- .0IS Ph                          .4 ||
O.                           O ed;
000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
S  g   Qa  g    x             o W 9i n   0 e3B2 Ct f 0.
*~~~~p 'O 09                         P  r la
g, |           i~A                    i t
f:.            Si. *,
*0. ~ ~~40'10t0      NOI~~~~t '1 Ft 0 SO        C
0.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ". *S          "   g    F""             P 
ProJect starts -September, 1987               - 
*~ ~~r tl9 F ..> 
-  -- ---  -  -- --------- --- --------- 
-   - --    - -- - -- -- -- - ---   <- -S- -- -- -
Pompetedtrt  - September, 1987
-ZZ T
g 1
:     _     L   ~~~~Project completed - September, 1994
t-  _      _  __         _    _____________ 



Chart C-2
-123-
Lr- - - - - -- - -- - -___ - -
I         I'
w b r         II;;lIj1  ri
,----------|-~~~-------
|g   he X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F[III
t                      L_ _ __ _ _ _________I
ii ~~~~~IH  'ii~~~~~



I~~~~r .. - - :3 f-- - - -- - -- -    ---   
I~~~   X  j I                       
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O -0:
Ie



Chart C-4
-125-
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Proposed Organizafton of Extension SenAce in Sunswd Distict
ProjoectManoger                   Regionol Director of
ShIP                             Agrculture
01strlct Agricultural
Developnent Ofcer
I.igated Area                              .                           Rainfed Area
AWstant                  w4~~Subect matter                     Assisant
Ditrict       Agrc. Deveiosns nt                    Speciallst Team                       AQriculural
o Dfev  lopmen)                        Irnduding                         Development
OsM (I    )                            Offcer
I                                                                        II
Subconter     Junior Technicians                                                       Junior Technicians
Junior Technica l                                                       Junior Technical
Assistants                                                              Assistants
[~~~II
Panchayt PonchaatLev                                                                    P at Level
Agt  Assita                                                             Agric. Assiant
Leend
Une of Command
- - - - Coordination
World Bank-31039:1



-126---
7~I1u



POin NO. tan
NOC(mtMtENT SCNW4JL
crn   fNepal                                                P                                                                         Sunsarti  orang Irrigation 11 Project
[(--F---~~~~~ano                                       1"                        19871  i                   488 FX989l- I1
MUSaWTa of mm                                                                                                                                 E    E
Main Works:                 M      2     ACVC                                                  iF
(a) Canal improvement
(b) Desllt Ing basin                                                                                              t C        t 4
_ _>ItL~~Of                t          Ai  ec CTUtAL_t t tt1 ed*t^,
(C) 16.700 ha 11v
nuZZ41U1fl* (several
(a) Ntow (29 nt                      *                       _-DAt                                                *t
(b) Ufgreding otbers                     ACTUAL
Subtotal (Works)               29.8
w0bs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB
vehicjlas & Eqn*pment±iC            4.5 ACUA
(a) System 4 saint. eq.IO
(b) VehiclesI
-1?
Workshop equipment   LIS         *  e3VSUO
Subtotal (God)                        PWA5MF F   i-T   
WTOAL                                 .                 T
coot.                                                         1992                     199
Main Works ((aJ.(b].[cJI                 P                                                          K                                  I II          I II                                      
~evs*anosemtsma9 .rnA,t,sffA.Ae..o. 5tc..c*..sA.e s.oou,..Iw
A*                                                          4 ~  9WTtOP rse*,                                                                            CUse-m.anani
Ill    Panomop WAIOIWAFICATM ODCLS 01 9"92MV^t  ,49 * CMOM 2SCWll                                                                 O-AFTMAATISI
o .saaa.so.inmrasm   ~~~~~~~~~~~TA  LAN ( ..eee          e p.c,                                     . a.N.,...'sCOTmCT egu ow.e..LOCA
e ase Cost                                                                                                          mtO.,*S'
*1



NOTES



NOTES



KAP SECTION



80°                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~8~2°                                      84°
<:\ iH            as                      C~~~CH I N A
INDIACHI
WMA ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~PP
-- -. ~BHAIRAWA LUMBINI ) /
QSROUNDWATER PROJBC)'  
MID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
f _ d ne t_*                                         ~     ~    ~~ ~       ~~ ~ ~~~~~0 40  80  120  11
r *000                                                         I         I         I         I
z*$^oziliols                                         ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~0 20  40    60       80
_                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~82°                                       84°
s                                                                                                    . ~~~~~C



IBRD 199C
60s                                                          880
b                                           ~~~~~~~~~~N  E P A  L
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                                                                  30
CHATRA CANAL COMMAND AREA
IDA ASSISTED ONGOING PROJECTS
MOUNTAIN REGION
HILL REGION
INNER IERAI
TERAI
KATHMANDU VALLEY
- - 9  RIVERS
.:.~ ,DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDARIES
ADMINISTRATIVE ZONE BOUNDARIES
-  - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
_ ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
V~~~~~~~~~
28"
8HAT~RAH
Z ,-,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~9Ht
! 5;-           MA%AH\
4~~~
PARSA                                                   NG   KTG
NARAI          A;'
IRR GATI gONfu
4PROJECT                                 HN             AA 
D KILOMETERS                                                                   SUNSARI MORANG                         .
DO  MILES                             7                         IRRIGATION PROJECT
00O  liES     \                                                                   (STAGE I ) 
26 
\  86°                                                                    U 88°26
FEBRuARY 1987



NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
CHATRA MAIN CANAL COMMAND AREA
Stoge 11 2 (6700 ha.)                              Sandy Soil Areaos
'Inta; '    Jhumke  (°                   h                     Silt Ejectors
Stoge I (9,750 ha.)                                Naturol Drains and Streoms
CH-ATRA                                Boundary of Canal Command Area           t          Protective Embonkment
Main Canal                                         Main Roads
Distributary Canals                                Towns
Internotional Boundaries
\                              ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~To Dborcn          To mlrechi                                /              \        B
.HA             MHARI             'AL                                                                          RANGE
INARWA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ \ % : t; \5.~~~~~~~~~~DU / "I
INDIA
~~~~~ ,                                          .,,bIfif.,4..ifn\i;,                                                   '-BIRATNAGA
CHINA         30'  -:                                                                                                                                                  7
INDIA                                                                                                           t/
N,              /                                                                                                             8rv    s,>   BRTAAx,.
.1<0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05M,Wes 
_20'      80'0   TO K'uli                                                                             IN/ NDI A
_    _    . -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1



