Report No. 1297a-PH                                                              FILE  COPY
Philippines: Appraisal of
a Third Highway Project
December 10, 1976
Transportation Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit = Pesos (P)
US$1.00       = 7.35 (August 1976)
-Pi           = US$0.1360
P1 million    = US$136,000
*The exchange rate is floating, but the rate used in this report is indi-
cated above.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                           British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                        3.28 feet (ft),
1 kilometer (km)                                   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)           -               0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                                    2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                               1.1 US short tons (sh tons)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT   =  Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB    =  Asian Development Bank
BOC    =  Bureau of Customs
BOT    =  Board of Transportation
DPH    =  Department of Public Highways
B/C    =  Benefit/Cost Ratio
BPW    =  Bureau of Public Works
DPWTC  =  Department of Public Works, Transportation
& Communications
ER     =  Economic Return
FYB    =  First Year Benefits
GNP    =  Gross National Product
HSF    =  Highway Special Fund
IATCTP = Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning
ILO    =  International Labor Organization
NDP    =  Net Domestic Product
NEDA   =  National Economic and Development Authority
PAL    =  Philippine Air Lines
PCMP   =  Progressive Car Manufacturing Program
PNR    =  Philippine National Railways
PPDO   =  Planning and Project Development Office
PRC    =  Philippine Railway Company
PTS    =  Philippine Transport Survey
UNDP   =  United Nations Development Programme
vpd    =  Vehicles Per Day
FISCAL YEAR
1975 = July 1, 1974 - June 30, 1975
1976 = July 1, 1975 - December 31, 1976
From 1977 = January 1    - December 31



PHILIPPINES            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY  ..........................................                      i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....................................                          1
II.    THE TRANSPORT  SECTOR  .............................                         2
A.   Economic  Setting  .............................                       2
B.   Transport Modes  ..............................                        3
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination  ....                 ......       6
III.    HIGHWAYS           .................................                         7
A.   The Network  ..................................                        7
B.  Highway Traffic  ..............................                         8
C.   Administration  ................................                      10
D.   Planning and Financing  .......................                       10
E.   Design and Construction  ......................                       12
F.   Maintenance  ..................................                       13
G.   Training  .....................................                       14
IV.    THE PROJECT  ......................................                         15
A.  Description  ..................................                        15
B.   Cost Estimates  and Foreign Exchange Component                       20
C.   Execution  ....................................                      22
D.   Procurement  ..................................                       23
E.   Financing  ....................................                      24
F.   Disbursements  ................................                      24
V.    ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ..............................                       25
A.   General  ......................................                       25
B.   Construction  and Improvement  of National
Roads  .......................................                      26
C.   Reconstruction  of Minor Roads  ....                ............     27
D.   Road Maintenance Program  .....................                       28
E.   Risks  ........................................                      29
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................................                         29
This report has been prepared by Messrs. A.F. Ballereau (Economist), and
K.V.S.K. Nathan (Engineer). Mr. E.H. Chittleburgh (Training Advisor)
assisted the mission on training matters.
This documnent has a rstricted diutribulon *nd may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may Mot otherwis be disclosd without World lnk authorization.



ANNEX
1.   Description of Project Roads
2.   Staff Training Component
3.   Project Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1.   Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1968-74 and 1980-85
2.   Public Transport Investment Programs and Sources of Funds, FY 1968-80
3.   Public Highway Network, 1974
4.   Motor Vehicle Statistics, FY 1966-75
5.   Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, FY 1966-75
6.   Expenditures by Highway Works and Source of Funds, FY 1966-75
7.   Expenditures on Highways by Road System, FY 1966-75
8.   Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, FY 1972-81
9.   Highway User Charges, FY 1966-75
10.   Highway Design Standards
11.   Minor Roads Identified for Improvement
12.   Road Maintenance Program:  Workshops for Construction and
Improvement (Luzon Island)
13.   Road Maintenance Program:  Maintenance Equipment for Procurement
(Luzon Island)
14.   Road Maintenance Program:  Physical Targets and Budget Requirements
for the National Road Network, 1977-81
15.   List of Roads for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
16.   Advisers for Technical Assistance
17.   Detailed Project Costs Estimates
18.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
19.   Estimated Traffic Growth on Project Roads
20.   Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
21.   Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project National
Roads, 1980
22.   Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Minor
Roads, 1980
23.   Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams for Reconstruction
and Improvement of National Roads (10 sections)
24.   Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits for Reconstruction of Minor
Roads (20 sections)
25.   Road Maintenance Program:  Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits
Streams, 1977-81
26.   Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
IBRD 16191 Organization of the Department of Public Highways
IBRD 16234 Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 12320 Construction
IBRD 12321 Other Project Elements



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The demand for transport in the Philippines continues to increase
rapidly at a somewhat higher rate than the average growth of the economy.
In spite of past investments, the transport infrastructure is still insuf-
ficient to cope with the present level of traffic and meet the expected
demand. Part of the transport network has continued to deteriorate as mainte-
nance is often inadequate. The need for better road transport at lower costs
is still far from satisfied and is likely to grow rapidly in the future as
economic growth picks up.
ii.       Public sector investments in transport represent about 50% of the
total public infrastructure expenditure. The share for highway investment is
about 80% of the expenditure in the public transport sector, reflecting the
dominant role of this mode; highways carry about 80% of passenger movement and
45% of freight. The Department of Public Highways (DPH) has taken steps to
respond to the need for more adequate road transport by improving the planning
and coordination of road investments; this will involve among other things
systematic traffic data collection and processing to guide in formulating
economically sound investment programs.
iii.      The proposed FY 1977-80 public investment program for roads
envisages a major increase in investments from an annual level of about
D 1.6 billion in 1976 to P 3.3 billion in 1980 (at current prices). It is
a major step toward meeting the targets for the highway network which are:
(i) the reconstruction and realignment of certain major trunk routes; (ii)
the paving and/or strengthening of virtually all national highways, totalling
about 23,000 km (less than 40% are paved), and those provincial highways with
high traffic volumes; (iii) the improvement of the condition of graveled and
unsurfaced minor roads, chiefly through improved maintenance; and (iv) the
institution of an adequate system to maintain paved highways.
iv.       The Bank has previously assisted the Government in the transport
sector with five loans totaling US$110.6 million, including two port pro-
jects totaling US$14.6 million in 1961 and 1973, one shipping project for
US$20 million in 1974, and two highways projects for US$8.0 million in 1971,
and US$68.0 million in 1973. In addition, the Bank has assisted in financing
the construction and improvement of feeder roads serving rural areas under
irrigation, multipurpose and rural development projects.
v.        The Third Highway Project will include the construction and improve-
ment of about 500 km of national roads of which only about 43 km represent new
roads; improvement of 230 km of minor roads; implementation of the first phase
of a Five-Year Road Maintenance Program which includes a road restoration



- ii -
component; and consulting services for supervising construction and improve-
ment of project roads, for carrying out feasibility studies and engineering of
1,400 km of national roads, 800 km of minor roads and ferry crossings to
prepare future highway projects, and for continuing technical assistance and
training.
vi.       The construction and improvement works on national roads and the
procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools, workshop machinery and
spares will be carried out by contract on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement".
Supervision of construction will be carried out by consultants except for
roads engineered by the DPH which it will also supervise with the assistance
of some foreign technical personnel. The feasibility studies and engineer-
ing, technical assistance to strengthen the DPH and training services will be
carried out by experienced foreign consultants assisted by domestic firms.
The estimated cost of the project is US$196 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$95 million. The loan is based on the estimated foreign costs.
vii.      The benefits from the construction and improvement of the highways
will be mainly to lower vehicle operating costs by improving sections of
the highway network which have inadequate standards. The improved roads will
also serve agricultural production areas of the potentially rich islands of
Visayas and Mindanao by easing access to markets which is now hampered by
periodic floods. Economic returns on the national roads are high and vary
between 18% and 36%. The road maintenance equipment and workshops to be
procured under the project will contribute to the setting up of an efficient
maintenance organization, starting with Luzon Island, to prevent deteriora-
tion of newly paved roads and improve the riding conditions of graveled roads.
The project also includes studies for new projects which will extend highway
development to other important islands and improve social and economic parity
among the island populations. The growing investments in roadworks are also
expected to help relieve local unemployment.
viii.     The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$95
million equivalent to the Government of the Philippines for a 20-year term,
including a four and a half year grace period.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of the Philippines has requested
the Bank's assistance to help finance a Third Highway Project consisting of:
(a) construction and improvement of 500 km of national roads comprising 10
sections and improvement of 230 km of minor roads comprising 16 sections;
(b) implementation of the first phase of a Road Maintenance Program compris-
ing: (i) construction or enlargement of base and area workshops on Luzon
Island; (ii) procurement of road maintenance equipment including spares,
hand tools and workshop tools and machinery; (iii) procurement of spare
parts and components for existing equipment; and (iv) restoration of deteri-
orated sections of the national road network to a maintainable condition; (c)
consulting services for (i) supervising construction and improvement of roads
in (a) above; (ii) feasibility studies and detailed engineering for future
projects; (iii) technical assistance to strengthen the Department of Public
Highways (DPH) and help to implement the Road Maintenance Program in (b)
above; (iv) designing and supervising the construction of maintenance work-
shops; and (v) training of the DPH work-force. The estimated cost of the
project is US$196 million, with a Bank participation of US$95 million.
1.02      The Bank's previous assistance in financing the transport sector
has involved five loans; two port projects (Loan 290-PH for US$8.5 million
in 1961 and Loan 939-PH for US$6.1 million in 1973), one shipping project
(Loan 1048-PH for US$20 million in 1974); and two highway projects (Loan
731-PH for US$8.0 million in 1971 and Loan 950-PH for US$68.0 million in 1973).
Performance on the First Port Project, which included procurement of dredging
equipment, was unsatisfactory due to inadequate operation and maintenance of
the dredges and some US$1.1 million of the loan was cancelled. The Second
Port Project, after a slow start due to cumbersome Government procedures in
contract awards for civil works, is progressing satisfactorily. The First
Highway Project was completed in 1975; works had been progressing satisfac-
torily until March 1973 when they were suspended for about two months due
to civil disturbances which eventually led to the deletion of a section of
the road worth about 20% of the project. No part of the loan was cancelled
because of the need for funds to meet the increase in construction costs of
the remaining works. The Second Highway Project is progressing about on
schedule and to date about 60% of the civil works have been completed. The
technical assistance which was included in the First Project and continued in
the Second helped to improve DPH organization and operations, but further
assistance is required, particularly for road maintenance.
1.03      The present project forms part of the Government's infrastructure
program for 1977-80 and was prepared on the basis of priorities established
by a UNDP-financed Transport Survey (1968-70) which recommended a 10-year
transport investment program placing main emphasis on highways. In 1971,
the Government began to implement the program with the construction of



-2-
the Japanese financed Pan-Philippines highway and the Cotabato-Digos road
(160 km) in Mindanao Island, financed by the Bank under the First Highway
Project. It was followed, in 1973, by the Second Highway Project which
included the construction and improvement of about 52 km of expressway and
about 640 km of other national roads, all in Luzon Island. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering of the proposed project were carried out
under the Second Project, the studies being financed by the UNDP.
1.04      This report is based on information provided by the Government
and its consultants, and on the findings of the April/May 1976 appraisal
mission, composed of Messrs. A. F. Ballereau (Economist) and K. V. S. K.
Nathan (Engineer). Mr. Chittleburgh (Training Advisor) assisted the
mission on training matters.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      The Philippines archipelago comprises some 7,100 islands and covers
about 300,000 km2 in land areas, roughly the same size as Italy. The two
largest islands, Luzon, with Manila the capital and Mindanao, represent about
two-thirds of the area and account for about three-quarters of the population
of 42.5 million (estimates of mid-1975). The balance of the population lives
mainly on a group of large islands, the Visayas, located between Luzon and
Mindanao. The annual growth rate of the population, 3% during 1960-75, is
one of the highest in the world.
2.02      Agriculture, including fishery and forestry, remains the main sector
of the country's economy and output has grown at an average of 3% p.a. since 1970.
Now, it generates nearly 36% of the Net Domestic Product (NDP), accounts for
about 70% of export earnings (sugar, coconut and forestry products), and
employs over 50% of the labor force. For the same period, manufacturing and
mining grew at 7.2% p.a. and accounts for about 27% of the NDP; commerce and
other soft services grew at 5.6% p.a. and represent around 40% of the NDP.
The Philippines has scope for further development of her abundant natural
resources, with particular potential in tropical agriculture, forestry, mining
(copper, gold, iron, chrome and nickel) and tourism. Following a period of
acute balance of payments difficulties in 1970-72, there was a sharp increase
in output and income in 1973-74. The growth in GNP averaged about 5% p.a. in
1970-72, doubled to 10% in 1973-74 and then declined to about 6% a year in
1974-75. The GNP per capita was $370 in mid-1975 and has grown about 3% over
the past five years. The Government development program is expected to sustain
a growth rate of 7% in real terms by the end of the decade, provided that the
international economic situation improves and the country takes full advantage
of this opportunity. The rate of registered unemployment has decreased to 4%
from about 8% in 1970 but still remains high in larger urban areas such as



- 3 -
Greater Manila (8% compared to 12% in 1970). In addition, there is a wide-
spread underemployment, especially in the services sector.
B. Transport Modes
General
2.03      The demand for transport in the Philippines was estimated for 1968
in the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS), carried out by Metra/Sauti (France/
Italy), which was the first attempt to quantify the movement of passengers
and goods. Since then, the Government through the efforts of the Planning
and Project Developme_nt Office (PPDO) of the Department of Public Works,
Transport and Communications (DPWTC) has updated the PTS for 1974 and made
projections up to 1985. The Government has agreed as part of the Second
Highway Project to improve the collection and processing of data in the
transport sector by establishing in each transport agency a comprehensive
system to provide regularly all data required for assessing present and
future demand. However, the system is not yet operating due to inadequate
administration and staffing. The fragmentary data available make it difficult
to give an accurate view of the sector's recent evolution. They appear to
indicate, however, that the development of transport in general between 1968
and 1974 was faster than the economy as a whole. Road transport is the
dominant mode within the two major islands and probably accounts for nearly
80% of passenger traffic; but its relative importance in the total freight
movement has dropped between 1968-74 from nearly 60% to 44% (Table 1). Inter-
island and coastal shipping, serving a population scattered over hundreds
of islands, is now the largest transport mode for freight traffic with about
53% and accounts for nearly 10% of passenger movement. Railroads are of
marginal importance, because of short inland distances and poor management,
and carry only a small fraction of the total traffic. Domestic aviation,
still of small importance, is developing rapidly, mainly serving passenger
traffic.
2.04      The overall growth rate of freight movement averaged more than 8% p.a.
between 1968 and 1974 while passenger movement grew by 5% p.a. Inter-island
and coastal shipping growth was high for both freight and passenger movement
with about 14% and 8% respectively, while road transport grew at the rates of
about 4% and 5% respectively. PPDO forecasts assume for all modes together an
average growth of about 8% p.a. until 1985, which seems realistic. Road
transport is expected to grow at about 8% and 7% respectively for freight
and passenger movements; and coastal shipping growth should stabilize at
about the same rates.
2.05      Public investments in the transport sector accounted for over 50% of
public infrasructure expenditure during the last investment periods FY1968-71
and FY1972-75 (Table 2). But, still, public transport investments hardly
represent 1% of the GNP each year and were insufficient to cope with transport
demand. Inadequate funding and weak administration resulted in a generally



-4-
poor maintenance of the network for all modes. Also, insufficient coordina-
tioin and overlapping of responsibilities have hampered rational transport
planning and efficient project execution. However, the situation is expected
to improve as the funds available for public infrastructure investments have
notably increased with the tax reforms introduced in recent years, especially
the substantial increase of taxes on gasoline and other fuels. Also the
inadequacies in data availability and administration are gradually being
remedied.
2.06      The Government's efforts have been concentrated on roads which
received over the last ten years about 80% of the funds allocated to public
transport. Over the same period, other transport modes were allocated little
funds. Airports received about 10% and ports about 8%, railways almost none
until 1975. A review of the adequacy of these modes is being undertaken
through specific studies to assess the needs and priorities of additional
investments (para 2.17). The efforts required to further improve the
Philippines transport network should aim at: (i) providing a more efficient
communications system to link the major centers of activity, (ii) improving
transport within these centers, and (iii) linking isolated islands to the
mainland.
Highways
2.07      Parts of the present highway system are still inadequate to cope
with the current level of traffic despite the Government's efforts since 1970.
Vehicles operating and travel costs are generally high since only 38% of
national highways and 13% of provincial roads are paved, the rest of the
network being either gravelled or unsurfaced. A continued high level of
investment in highways will be required. Details are given in Chapter
III.
Railways
2.08      The only railway of significance is the Government-owned Philippine
National Railways (PNR) which has a network on Luzon totaling 1,060 km of
which 740 km of main line and 80 km of branch lines and sidings are operating.
Most of PNR's track were relaid during the 1960's with Japanese aid. The
remainder is in very poor condition and closed for the most part. Man-
agement of the railways has been poor, maintenance of facilities inadequate
and operations for years were inefficient and unprofitable. The main line
is paralleled by highways for most of its length, and as haulage distances
of most commodities are relatively short, it is unlikely that the railway will
ever be competitive with trucks and buses.
2.09      Since the PNR is an important employer (staff of about 8,000), the
Government finds it difficult to close it down and its present objective is
to improve its operations to permit the railroad to cover at least current
operating costs. The programs under the Rehabilitation Plan, 1971-75, have
improved services, and passenger and freight traffic have increased somewhat
since 1973. Higher fares permitted a small operating surplus but this recovery
does not signify the long-term economic viability of the PNR. A second railway,



the Philippine Railway Company (PRC), is privately owned and operates an
antiquated 117 km track of diminishing importance on Panay Island. The PRC
will be rehabilitated temporarily at low cost to continue service until its
phasing out when the improvement of the road network in Panay will be com-
pleted.
Ports
2.10      There are about 80 national and 390 municipal ports throughout the
Philippine archipelago, plus numerous private piers and wharves. The long-
established public ports have generally been sited where natural protection
is available but sedimentation problems occur in many cases. The more
modern private piers and wharves, which handle 80-85% of export shipments,
have generally been located to take advantage of natural deep water. Swell
is generally a problem only during typhoons and many ports have been able
to avoid building expensive breakwaters. Most of the public ports are poorly
maintained and have not been designed for modern cargo-handling techniques.
Sheds are often lacking, although private warehouses are usually available
nearby. Cargo-handling is generally in the hands of private companies and in
many ports there is a lack of equipment. Manila, the largest.port, accounts
for about 70% of all imports and 5% of all exports.
2.11      Coastal shipping is the most important transport mode for freight,
and second for passengers after roads. There are about 480 inter-island ves-
sels of over 100 gross tons and a much greater number of small ships. The
potential of inter-island and coastal shipping, however, has not yet been
realized due to inadequate port facilities and the antiquated local shipping
fleet. More than 34% of the inter-island fleet and 41% of the ocean-going
fleet were 30 or more years old in 1974. There are about 50 Philippine ship-
ping companies, but the majority of the fleet is owned by only 10.
2.12      Administration and control of the national ports have been in the
hands of the Bureau of Customs (BOC) of the Ministry of Finance while physical
planning, construction and maintenance have been the responsibility of the
Bureau of Public works (BPW) of DPWTC. No satisfactory mechanism existed in
the past for coordinating the activities of BOC and BPW, with the result
that port investments were often unrelated to port needs, and required main-
tenance was neglected. A further problem was the inadequacy of records in
the BOC, making it impossible to develop a sound data base for analyzing port
and inter-island traffic volumes by route and commodity breakdown. The
reorganization of the DPWTC now under consideration by the Government is
expected to improve the existing organization and develop an efficient data
collection system (para. 2.17). The Government, as agreed with the Bank,
established the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA)in 1974, which will become
fully operational by late 1976. It will take over the port-related functions
carried out so far by BOC and BPW.



-6-
Civil Aviation
2.13      Manila, the only international airport in the Philippines, is
served by 19 international and regional scheduled airlines, including
Philippine Air Lines (PAL), which has both international and domestic services.
There is an extensive network of domestic airports (78) operated by the
Government and served by PAL, now the sole domestic carrier. Domestic pas-
senger traffic has been increasing at about 12% p.a. over the past six years;
air freight is still insignificant. The Manila Airport is being rehabilitated
and extended to meet traffic demand by 1983 with the assistance of a US$26
million loan from ADB.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.14      As a result of the Government reorganization in 1972, transport
planning is now the joint responsibility of the National Economic and Devel-
opment Authority (NEDA) and the DPWTC. As a central planning agency, NEDA has
the overall planning responsibility for public capital investments through its
Infrastructure Program and Project Office, which reviews and approves invest-
ments proposed from each transport agency. NEDA is assisted in this task by
the Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning (IATCTP), staffed
with representives from each transport agency, including the DPH. The IATCTP
formulates and recommends comprehensive and integrated long-range transport
plans; formulates standards and guidelines for the preparation of agency plans
for transport development and coordinates transport programs and projects; and
serves as a forum for the resolution of operational problems of transport
agencies.
2.15      Under the Secretary of the DPWTC, the Planning and Project Develop-
ment Office (PPDO) has the responsibility for undertaking comprehensive
regional planning studies with focus on infrastructure investments and formu-
lating on this basis priorities of major infrastructure projects. PPDO
maintains liaison with NEDA and provides the bulk of technical input to
transport planning. The Board of Transportation, as a semi-detached unit of
the DPWTC, handles the quasi-judicial function of granting routes to transport
companies and prescribing rates, schedules and regulations for their operations.
The Bureau of Transportation in the same department and working within policy
guidelines laid down by the Board of Transportation, is responsible for the
enforcement of regulations concerning all modes of transportation, except for
railways. The PNR remains responsible to the Office of the President. These
organizational developments have in practice improved the planning and coor-
dination functions of the Government. However, there are still many instances
of overlapping or lack of coordination such as the exclusion of the railways
from the juridiction of the Bureau of Transportation.
2.16      The Government's Transport Infrastructure Investment Program en-
visages an expenditure of P 13,700 million during the period FY 1977-80
(Table 2). About P 3,000 million (22%) are expected to be financed by



- 7 -
foreign sources. The program is to be periodically updated. The program is
ambitious because it will require an increase in public expenditures on trans-
port from an annual level of P 2.0 billion in 1976 to P 3.7 billion in 1980 at
current prices but the Government, given appropriate technical assistance, has
the capacity to execute this program. The proposed investment program was not
adequately supported by technical studies other than investigations related to
regional planning by the PPDO. The largest share is distributed to roads but
substantial amounts are planned for other modes; this seems reasonable in view
of the past investment backlogs. With the ongoing efforts to improve the
collection of transport data particularly for highways and ports, a sound
basis will soon be available for improved planning and the preparation of the
next Transport Infrastructure Investment Program.
2.17       A Bank Transport Planning mission which visited the Philippines in
July 1975 made a number of recommendations to improve the effectiveness
of transport planning and coordination. The mission's report was received
favorably by the Government and implementation of some of the recommendations
is underway. The recommendations included the regrouping of all planning and
coordination activities in a single agency either under NEDA or under an
independent new Department of Transport to be created. The mission also
recommended that technical assistance be provided through appointment of
advisers to each transport agency to strengthen their capabilities in basic
data collection, processing and planning functions. The advisers would also
assist NEDA in preparing a transport investment study. Following receipt of
proposals from qualified consulting firms, the Government has negotiated a
contract with Sauti/Hoff (Italy/Denmark) to provide these advisers who will
be financed by the Bank under the Manila Urban Development Project (Loans
1272-T-PH and 1282-PH).
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The public highway network totaling about 99,000 km, consists of
about 23,000 km of national roads, 30,000 km of provincial roads, 27,000 km
of city and municipal roads and 19,000 km of other roads (feeder, farm to
market and other local roads) (Table 3). The national roads include about
47 km of four-lane toll expressways with grade separated intersections north
and south of Manila. Since 1970, the Government has made a substantial ef-
fort to improve and develop the road system mainly with local resources,
supplemented in recent years by foreign assistance mainly from Japan, USAID
and international agencies such as IBRD and ADB. The achievement during the
last six years is impressive with over 13,000 km of newly constructed roads
(National Roads, about 4,000 km), including about 6,700 km of earth roads,
3,440 km of gravel roads, and 3,140 km of paved roads (asphalt and concrete).
Among those new roads is the principal artery in the country, the 2,000 km
Pan-Philippine Highway, which when completed will extend from the north of
Luzon to the south of Mindanao. The construction of this 1,300 km road,



- 8 -
financed with Japanese assistance, started in 1970 and is about 75% completed.
Progress has been slow due to the poor performance of some contractors and
inadequate supervision by the DPH.
3.02      The average road density is 0.3 km of road/km2 of land area and
2.3 km of road/1,000 inhabitants. These compare favorably with ratios of
0.5 km of road/km2 and 1.3 km of road/1,000 inhabitants in Korea and 0.1 km
of road/km2 and 1.3 km of road/1,000 inhabitants in Thailand. The road
density is generally sufficient to serve transport needs, but the condition
of most of the highway network is-unsatisfactory. Only 38% of national
roads and 13% of the provincial roads are paved (compared with 85% and 35%
in Thailand). Moreover, both paved and unpaved roads are generally in
poor condition. Many roads were initially badly designed and constructed,
and inadequate maintenance in the past has resulted in serious deterior-
ation of some high cost pavements. Damage to roads results also from severe
flooding during rainy seasons and frequent overloading of trucks, which is
common practice particularly in logging and mining areas. The Second High-
way Project sought to remedy the deficiencies in highway maintenance and
vehicle axle load control. Some progress has been made but, nevertheless,
there is a continuing need to improve the highway network, particularly
by the (i) reconstruction and improvement of major trunk routes and connecting
minor roads; and (ii) implementation of an enlarged and improved road mainte-
nance program including a large amount of restoration works.
B. Highway Traffic
3.03      Between 1966 and 1975, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
325,000 to about 740,000, an average annual increase of about 9.6% p.a.
(Table 4). The composition of the fleet in 1975 was 53% passenger cars, 29%
trucks, 3% buses, 8% jeepneys and 7% other vehicles. The vehicle fleet is
fairly large with one vehicle per 60 inhabitants compared to one per 185 in
Korea and one per 120 in Thailand.
3.04      The motor vehicle manufacturing industry consists of the assembly of
cars and trucks and the production of multi-purpose vehicles. Almost all
cars and commercial vehicles sold are now assembled locally. The local
industry is being developed under the Progressive Car Manufacturing Program
(PCMP) initiated in 1972 which is aimed at foreign exchange savings through
domestic manufacture of automotive components. Five foreign car manufacturers
have been selected by the Board of Investments to participate in the program,
whose goal is to increase the domestic component ratio to about 56% in 1976.
The assembly of passenger cars has risen from about 12,000 units in 1972
prior to the PCMP to about 27,000 units in 1975. The PCMP also brought about
the production of low cost light commercial vehicles with a larger local
content, commonly known as Asian Utility Vehicles (Ford's Fiera, GM's Harabas,
Chrysler's Cimaron, and DMG's Trakbayan). Production of these vehicles rose
from about 6,000 units in 1973 to more than 18,000 units in 1975. A Progres-
sive Truck Manufacturing Program similar to the PCMP was instituted early in
1976 for the local manufacture of trucks with a gross vehicle weight not



-9-
exceeding 40,000 lbs. Even prior to this program, trucks were being assembled
locally (Table 4).
3.05      Data on growth of demand for road transport is not collected and
analyzed on a regular basis. However, judging from the increases in the
nation's motor vehicle fleet and the volume of gasoline consumption attribut-
able to road transport, traffic growth between 1966 and 1973 was substantial.
During this period, the increase in gasoline consumption is estimated to have
been about 10% p.a. (Table 5). Since then, traffic growth has been slowed by
the increase in oil prices but it is expected to increase with the growth of
output and income.
3.06      Routine traffic counts on the national highways were taken twice
a year until 1971 when they were suspended pending preparation of improved
procedures for collection and processing of traffic data by consultants
Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA) as part of a UNDP-financed technical assistance
program under the First Highway Project. The Government undertook under the
Second Highway Project to implement the consultants' recommendations and since
August 1975, the DPH has resumed a nationwide traffic counting program.
Special traffic counts and origin and destination studies have been con-
ducted by consultants who were carrying out feasibility studies and by the
DPH for various roads proposed for financing by Bank and ADB loans or for
bilateral financing.  However, more efforts are required to enable effective
planning of highway investments and maintenance operations. During negoti-
ations, the Government gave assurances that it will put into operation not
later than December 31, 1977 a country wide system to collect, record and
process traffic data and make such modification to the said system as shall
be agreed with the Bank.
3.07      Only 10% of trucking is carried out by general haulage operators.
Ninety percent of freight services are provided by trucks owned by enterprises
and hauling their own goods; and the utilization of these trucks appears to
be low. Among the factors which deter the growth of efficient commercial
trucking is the unrealistically low trucking rates which are set by the BOT.
Passenger transport is operated by private companies and regulated by BOT for
route licensing and fares. Taxis and buses are owned by a few large companies
while "jeepneys," an extended jeep carrying some 12 to 16 people, are gener-
ally driver-owned and are very popular because of low fares and convenience.
However, urban traffic congestion, particularly in Greater Manila, has led to
traffic management measures which restrict access of jeepneys to main arteries
and encourage the expansion of bus services. These measures have been
resisted by the bus companies which claim that rates are too low to permit
them to buy new buses and operate them profitably during peak hours. The
technical assistance advisers to be appointed to each transport agency (para
2.17) will assist the Government in reviewing the present tariff structure and
formulating a realistic policy on trucking rates and passenger fares.



- 10 -
C. Administration
3.08      The responsibility for constructing, maintaining and, to some
extent, planning of national roads is vested in the DPH which was created in
May 1974 by elevating the former Bureau of Public Highways of the DPWTC. In
May 1975, the Department received in addition the responsibility for the
supervision of the construction and maintenance of Barangay roads (or farm to
market roads) which includes practically all roads other than national
roads, provincial roads, and city and municipal roads. Local authorities are
responsible for the provincial, city and municipal roads except for the
supervision of construction and improvement of these roads which is carried
out by the DPH when expenditures are charged to the general funds. All
provincial, city and municipal roads are maintained by their respective local
government.
3.09      The DPH is headed by a Secretary who is assisted by an Under
Secretary. Two Assistant Secretaries work under them, one in charge of all
administrative matters, and the other in charge of operations. The present
organization (Chart No. 16191) was set up by the Presidential Commission on
Reorganization as detailed in its report published in March 1973, which
generally follows the recommendations by consultants under a UNDP-financed
technical assistance program, started under the First Highway Project and
later continued with Bank financing under the Second.
3.10      The operations of construction and maintenance of the national
roads are the responsibility of 14 DPH Regional Offices, each headed by
a Regional Director. Their work is supervised at headquarters by the
Bureau of Construction and Maintenance which is responsible for the construc-
tion and maintenance standards. The regions are subdivided into districts or
cities whose numbers vary with the size of the region. There is a total of
149 districts and cities, each headed by a district or city engineer. Some of
the city engineers are employed by the DPH and they function as DPH district
engineers in respect of national roads that pass through the city and municipal
areas. The Bureau of Equipment is responsible for the management, repair and
maintenance of road construction and maintenance equipment which is rented
mainly to DPH regions and district offices at pre-set rental rates which are
fair and comparable to those in the industry. It has its own regional equip-
ment services organizations with direct control of 14 base workshops and a
number of area workshops and mobile shops. The Bureau of Barangay Roads
supervises the construction and maintenance of farm-to-market roads.
D. Planning and Financing
3.11      In the DPH, a Planning and Development Service has been established
with responsibility for programming the annual allocation and disbursement of
funds and preparing the highway component of the Four-Year Development Plan
(para 3.15). For this purpose, its task includes the evaluation of major road
projects and ranking of priorities among projects; but the Service had only a



- 11 -
limited responsibility in the preparation of this project which was based for
the road and maintenance components on feasibility studies carried out by two
foreign firms (paras 4.03 and 4.06). It has made a modest start by undertak-
ing a study of road components of integrated irrigation and rural development
projects, but will eventually plan, undertake and supervise a program of
feasibility studies. The strengthening of this office has been included under
the present project with the appointment in July 1976 of an expatriate Transport
Economist who will assist the Planning and Development Service in its functions
at headquarters and in the regions. However, the staffing of this service is
not satisfactory as there are no economists and many of the other positions
have not been filled. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will fill all vacant positions for professional staff
consisting of 3 economists and 15 engineers before December 31, 1977.
3.12      In each DPH Regional Office, a planning division has been formed
to identify projects for studies, indicate regional priorities and super-
vise the collection of traffic and accident data. The strengthening of
the planning capabilities of the regional offices and the systematic
collection of traffic data will be provided through the guidance and train-
ing of the Planning and Development Service.
3.13      The Government plans to spend a total of about 11,200 million
pesos (US$1,520 million) for highways under the next investment program
(FY 1977-80). This program is over three times the total actual expenditures
during the previous Four-Year Program (FY 1972-75). 1/ During this period,
total highway expenditures, including administration and maintenance,
increased at a rate of over 50% p.a. at current prices, and doubled between
1974 and 1975. Actual construction expenditures over the period, averaged
between 55% and 65% of the total, while maintenance accounted for 30%,
the remainder being administrative expenditures (Tables 6, 7 and 8).
During the same period, revenues from highway users increased at the rate of
5% to 10% p.a. through 1973; in 1974 they jumped by 115% and by 57% in 1975,
as a result of the increase in price of crude oil and subsequent tax increases
based on the recommendations of the technical assistance consultants and the
Bank. A new annual energy tax was introduced in 1975 to penalize private
cars, particularly high consumption models and sports cars (rates are heavy,
ranging from 150 pesos per year for a new small car to 12,000 pesos a year
for a sports car. These revenues (Table 9) covered only about 40-60% of
highway expenditures.
3.14      Almost 80% of highway revenues are obtained from fuel oil taxes
and the remainder is contributed by motor vehicle fees, licenses and other
items including tolls levied on the two expressways north and south of
Manila. Road user charges, despite recent increases, are still comparatively
low and they should be reviewed periodically to cover gradually a larger
1/   Period FY 1972-75 was chosen for comparison as FY 1976 extended for 18
months because of a change in the Fiscal Year.



- 12 -
proportion of highway expenditures. About 90% of total revenues were ear-
marked for the Highway Special Fund (HSF) until it was abolished in July 1975,
in common with all special funds. The HSF was in the past used to cover
most highway expenditures and the general funds contributed about 10% of con-
struction expenditures up to FY 1970, but this share has increased substan-
tially since then to about half of the expenditures. In FY 1975, the HSF
covered exclusively maintenance and minor improvement expenditures to insure
that these high priority operations were not neglected. With the abolition of
the HSF, funds required for road maintenance, particularly restoration works
were not assured. However, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that it will commit funds annually for road maintenance,
including restoration in accordance with the agreed Five-Year Maintenance
Program (paras 3.21 and 4.09).
3.15      The Philippines is not yet considered among the countries suitable
for highway sector lending, since it has not yet established a well planned
highway investment program. At this stage, much more planning effort is
required to transform the projected Four-Year Development Program into a
realistic and appropriate plan. Only the first two years of the Program
includes projects under preparation (feasibility studies and detailed engi-
neering); the other projects listed are mere ideas expressing unevaluated
preference. NEDA is aware of these deficiencies in the Program and has taken
steps to improve the planning activities in each transport agency and to
assure adequate coordination. Staffing constraints have been generally a
bottleneck, and the Bank has agreed under the Manila Urban Development Project
(Loan 1282-PH), to assist in financing a technical assistance team of seven
advisers to help in transport planning (para 2.17). NEDA intends to prepare
by 1978, with the assistance of the seven advisers, a new transport investment
program, which is to be regularly updated.
E. Design and Construction
3.16      The design and construction of all national roads are carried
out by the DPH either directly or by employing consultants and contractors.
Large projects are mostly designed by consultants but a few have been under-
taken by special teams in headquarters and by the regional offices. Design
standards appropriate to Philippine conditions were developed by the DPH with
the assistance of consultants, Norconsult (Norway) during the first UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies in 1971-72. Additional standards for minor
roads were recommended by the general consultants, Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick
& Partners (U.K.) who supervised the detailed engineering of the project roads.
They are satisfactory and have been applied to the project roads (Table 10).
Consultants are also used for construction supervision of large projects
financed by international agencies, such as the Bank and ADB. Construction is
carried out principally by contract and, for Bank and ADB-financed projects,
under international competitive bidding procedures.



- 13 -
3.17      Provincial, city and municipal roads financed by local funds are
designed and constructed by their respective local governments. Since 1968,
under the Provincial Development Assistance Program (PDAP), many provinces
have developed an advanced planning and implementing capability through the
organization of the offices of the provincial engineer and the setting up
of equipment pools and workshops and training facilities. USAID has been
assisting the provinces under this program with funds and technical assist-
ance since 1974.
3.18      The improvement and construction of farm to market roads will
receive a new impetus with the creation of the Bureau of Barangay Roads.
An inventory is presently underway and the total length of the roads may
exceed 50,000 km including a large number of trails. The work in the
field, surveys, provision of equipment and supervision is undertaken by
DPH Districts, but the actual construction is done by village labor.
F. Maintenance
3.19      The maintenance of national roads and other roads has been generally
poor due to an inefficient maintenance organization, insufficient maintenance
funds, and unsatisfactory planning, budgeting and operating procedures.
Routine road maintenance is carried out in each region by force account, and
periodic maintenance is carried out, when undertaken, by contractors. However,
the DPH is not equipped to maintain the national road network adequately. Es-
sential items of equipment are not available, hand tools are in short supply,
and workshop facilities to service and repair equipment are grossly inadequate.
The existing depots are virtually junkyards with all types of equipment broken
down and in scrap condition. Consequently, the newly organized road mainten-
ance division in the DPH headquarters and regions have not been able to
operate efficiently. Years of neglect of road maintenance have, in fact,
resulted in a large part of the network deteriorating to a condition where the
roads cannot be maintained by normal maintenance methods and restoration works
have to be carried out to put them in a maintainable condition.
3.20      Some improvements, however, have taken place following the recom-
mendations of technical assistance consultants, Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/
USA) who have identified major problem areas. They were appointed in 1972
under the First Highway Project, and continued under the Second. In a first
group of recommendations, the consultants advised on the improvement of the
maintenance organization, planning, budgeting and operating procedures and
equipment management which were implemented at DPH headquarters in Manila and
in two pilot regions in 1973-75, but with modest success due to funds not being
released in time. A second group of recommendations was contained in their
report of April 1975 which proposed a Five-Year Road Maintenance Program (FY
1976-80) and included a Highway Maintenance Manual describing operations and
procedures to accomplish maintenance tasks. The next stage to be included in
the present project is to implement the five-year program, and extend to the
rest of the country the improved maintenance procedures tested in the two



- 14 -
pilot regions. The DPH has started to implement the program with respect to
routine maintenance but only exceptionally for periodic maintenance and
restoration works as lack of funds prevented the procurement of adequate
equipment and material, and recruitment of staff.
3.21      The budgeting procedures for road maintenance have been greatly
improved by the adoption of the consultants recommendations. The allocation
of maintenance funds to the regions is now based on technical requirements
by a formula which expresses in Equivalent Maintenance Kilometers (EMK) the
actual road lengths, as adjusted by correction factors for surface type,
width, traffic levels and length and type of bridges. The average maintenance
cost per EMK in 1975 was about US$1,100. The technical assistance proposed in
the project is expected to assist in proper planning and preparation of
adequate annual budgets to cover all maintenance expenditures.
G. Training
3.22      Training has been conducted for more than 25 years for technical
and administrative personnel, mainly on-the-job, by the various DPH functional
units. Upon the creation of the DPH, Training Officer posts were established
in the headquarters and regions to meet the manpower development needs and to
organize training courses in the Administrative Service and Bureau of Equip-
ment and Barangay Roads. However, insufficient care was taken in selecting
staff and little support was given by headquarters to regional efforts to
conduct training programs on a regular basis. The expansion of the road
network together with technological advances experienced in highway mainten-
ance, construction and equipment have accentuated the need for more compre-
hensive and organized programs of training for both existing and new personnel.
3.23      The need to improve the performance of the DPH workforce was recog-
nized by the Bank in 1973 and, accordingly, funds were included in the Second
Highway Project for a consultants' study to identify manpower development
needs and recommend suitable training programs. The consultants, Roy Jorgensen
Associates, Inc. (USA) submitted a final report in early 1976. The report
did not fully take into account the existing training facilities, took little
account of the high educational standard of the DPH workforce, and used in-
exact methods to identify training requirements. The result was that the
training requirements were somewhat exaggerated. However realistic provisions
have been made within the present project (para 4.15) to assist the DPH in
meeting the need for training as outlined in para 3.22.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The object of the project is to assist in improving the highway
network, mainly in the Visayas and Mindanao Islands and in implementing the
first phase of a road maintenance program in Luzon Island. Other purposes
of the project are to improve the operations of the DPH and to prepare future
projects (see Maps Nos. 12320 and 12321 at the end of the report).
4.02      The project consists of:
(a) the construction and improvement of 10 national road
sections totaling 500 km and 16 minor road sections
totaling about 230 km;
(b) the implementation of the first phase of a Five-Year
Road Maintenance Program comprising: (i) the construction
or enlargement of 5 base and 23 area workshops on Luzon
Island; (ii) procurement of road maintenance equipment
including spares, hand tools, workshop tools and machinery;
and (iii) procurement of spares and components for existing
equipment; and (iv) restoration of deteriorated sections of
the national road network to a maintainable condition
included in the first two years of the Five-Year Program;
(c) consulting services for: (i) supervision of the construction
and improvement of roads in (a) above; (ii) feasibility
studies of about 1,400 km of national roads, 800 km of
minor roads and seven ferry crossings to be followed by
detailed engineering of elements found justified; (iii)
technical assistance to strengthen the DPH and help in im-
plementing the road maintenance program in (b) above;
(iv) designing and supervising the construction of work-
shops in Luzon Island; and (v) training of DPH personnel.
(a) Construction and Improvement of Roads
(i) National Roads
4.03      The 10 national road sections totaling about 500 km, described
in Annex 1, will be constructed and improved mainly on present alignment
except for the Passi-Dao (35 km) road and Iloilo-Jaro (9 km) diversion road,
which will be constructed on new alignments. The existing roads have rough
and narrow pavements which have deteriorated because of bad design, poor
maintenance and heavy traffic volumes. Feasibility studies were carried out
in 1974-75 by consultants, Norconsult/Hoff and Overgaard (Norway/Denmark),
financed by the UNDP with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. Detailed
engineering was carried out by the DPH Region V Design Office in Legaspi,



- 16 -
and three local consulting firms between mid-1975 and mid-1976 except for
the Passi-Dao Road (35 km) expected to be completed early in 1977. All
three local consulting firms employed a few expatriates under arrange-
ments with foreign consulting firms operating in the country. The detailed
engineering was supervised by general consultants, Scott Wilson, Kirkpatrick
and Partners (U.K.). The foreign cost of the detailed engineering was
financed under the Second Highway Project. The work is generally satis-
factory.
4.04      The new road pavements will vary from gravel to bituminous surface
treatment and asphalt or portland cement concrete. The road improvements
will generally follow existing alignments except for a few bypasses around
towns and for two major re-alignments along the Zarraga-Passi road. On some
sections, embankments will be raised to reduce damage arising from severe
flooding. The roads will be upgraded by improving and widening shoulders and,
in many sections, by widening the pavements to cope with increased traffic
volumes or by doubling present carriageway for the Bacolod-Silay road. The
roads are designed in accordance with Philippines Highway design standards
(Table 10).
(ii) Minor Roads
4.05      The 16 minor roads sections totaling 230 km (Table 11) are located
in Panay, Negros, and Mindanao islands, and most of them connect with the
national roads being improved under this project. They were identified by
the feasibility study consultants as requiring improvements at the same time
as the national roads. The roads are in a poor condition with narrow widths,
inadequate drainage and unsatisfactory earth or gravel surfaces and are
difficult to negotiate during the wet season. A brief description of the
level of improvement of the minor roads is given in Annex 1, para 30. Fourteen
minor road sections were engineered by newly created DPH Design Offices in
Regions VI and X, and two on Panay Island by local consultants. Designs are
in accordance with recently set up design standards for minor roads (Table
10).
(b) Road Maintenance Program
4.06      The Road Maintenance Program included in the present project is
the first phase, limited to Luzon Island, of a Five-Year Program which
eventually will be extended to the rest of the country. The Maintenance
Program for national highways (FY 1976-80) was prepared by consultants,
Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA), in 1974-75 under the ongoing Second Highway
Project. The consultants' recommendations have been accepted in principle
by the Government and the Bank (para 3.20).
4.07      Luzon Island was selected for the first phase of the program since
traffic density is high and most highway investments have been concentrated
there - the Japanese financed Pan-Philippines Highway, the Bank's Second High-
way Project and an ADB road Project. The project will improve and equip 5
Regional Base Shops and 12 Area Shops, and build and equip 11 new Area Shops.



- 17 -
Two Regional Base Shops on Luzon will be built and equipped with Japanese
aid outside the present project. Details and cost estimates of construction
and improvement of workshops and their location are given in Table 12. A list
of maintenance equipment, spares, hand tools, workshop and tools machinery to
be procured under the project, including cost estimates, is given in Table 13.
The maintenance equipment was identified after reviewing the whole DPH equip-
ment fleet, including recent purchases through Japanese aid. Available equip-
ment was allocated with priority given to road maintenance and only items that
were not available or were not in adequate numbers to meet road maintenance
requirements have been included in the project. Spare parts and components
for the maintenance of existing equipment in Luzon have been identified
tentatively and would meet requirements over a two-year period. Actual
requirements will be determined by the technical assistance experts who will
be appointed under the project to assist the Bureau of Equipment (para 4.12).
4.08      The Government will continue road maintenance on a country-wide
basis in accordance with the consultants' recommendations using the existing
inadequate equipment and workshop facilities in all other regions until a
second phase is implemented. In addition, the Government has agreed to carry
out the Road Restoration Program as recommended by the consultants in the
Five-Year Maintenance Program, in order to prevent further deterioration of
the road network and to save maintenance funds. The scope of works of the
overall Program for the national road network, including normal maintenance
and the Restoration Program, over the 1977-81 period, which is considered as
the base period for the project, is detailed in Table 14. The physical
targets for normal maintenance increase from 22,500 km in 1977 to 25,000 km in
1981, while the Road Restoration Program should be completed by late 1981, and
is to be carried out mainly by contractors. The budget requirements call for
a total expenditure of about 432 million pesos in 1977 rising to about 528
million pesos in 1981; it represents an important increase compared to past
expenditures in 1975 and 1976 when the corresponding expenditures did not
exceed 300 million pesos per year. The Government has indicated that it will
be able to meet the budget requirements for normal maintenance and that part
of the road restoration works to be carried out by force account. To assist
the Government in financing restoration works to be carried out by contract,
the project includes provision to meet the foreign costs for the first two
years of the Five-Year Program.
4.09      The successful implementation of the Five-Year Maintenance Program
requires a substantial effort from the DPH. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment gave assurances that it would implement the program as described in Table
14 and agreed that:
(i) road restoration works, as recommended by consultants
will start not later than January 1977 and be carried
out until completion in 1981;
(ii) progress reports will be submitted semi-annually each
August and February; the first on August 1, 1977 and for
the following years, covering achievements for normal
maintenance and restoration works;



- 18 -
(iii)  annual detailed physical targets and budget requirements
will be planned and prepared in accordance with the pro-
cedures recommended by Kampsax/Berger and submitted in
October of each year for the Bank's approval, giving a
list of road sections to be restored with details of road
locations, length, traffic data, standards and cost estimates;
the first target report to be submitted by October 1, 1977;
(iv)  annual release of funds to DPH will be in line with budget
requirements to implement the annual maintenance programs
as agreed with the Bank; and
(v)  DPH will no later than the end of 1977 dispose in an appropri-
ate way of all scrap parts and components and non-serviceable
equipment and take measures to dispose thereafter regularly of
the equipment which has reached the end of its economic life.
(c) Consulting Services
(i) Construction Supervision
4.10      Construction supervision will be undertaken by the same local con-
sultants who carried out the detailed engineering of the project roads. To
strengthen their supervision staff, local consultants are expected to recruit
experienced expatriates to fill key positions. All consultants will use
counterpart staff from the DPH to the extent qualified staff can be made avail-
able. DPH Regions V, VI and X will supervise directly the roads engineered by
their design staff. The technical assistance to be provided by consultants
under the project to strengthen the DPH (see paras 4.12 and 4.13) will help in
the organization and operation of the supervision teams. During loan nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the qualifi-
cations, terms, and conditions of the supervision consultants and DPH staff,
will be satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii) Feasibility Studies and Engineering for Future Projects
4.11      The present project includes the conduct of feasibility studies and
engineering by consultants for about 1,400 km of national roads and about 800
km of minor roads and seven ferry crossings. The proposed roads and ferry
crossings are listed in Table 15. The Government has selected these roads on
the basis of current traffic counts, development potential, and population of
areas served. Some of the roads were identified by the Philippine Transport
Survey carried out in 1968-70 by consultants, Metra/Sauti (France/Italy). The
ferry crossings are expected to facilitate inter-island movement of motor
vehicles. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that qualified consultants would be retained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 19 -
(iii) Technical Assistance to DPH
4.12      The performance of the DPH has improved through technical assist-
ance by consultants financed under successive highway projects. Started
in 1971, the services of Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA), which were financed by
the UNDP, under the First Highway Project helped to improve the organization
and operations of the DPH, then a bureau. Among the measures implemented were
the separation of the administrative and technical functions, the reduction
of the number of divisions, the division of construction and maintenance re-
sponsibilities, and the strengthening of the regional offices. The consultants
continued their work until mid 1975 under the Second Highway Project, with new
terms of reference which placed emphasis on road maintenance and included the
preparation of a Five-Year Maintenance Program for national highways. Part of
their recommendations with respect to procedures and operations of maintenance
were implemented by DPH headquarters and the regions. However, the gradual
reduction of foreign consulting firms' input, which prepared projects for the
DPH and their replacement by local firms calls for additional scrutiny by the
DPH to review project preparation. Also, a somewhat high turnover of staff
attracted by the private sector leaves a vacuum which needs to be filled.
Further, DPH staff in some areas such as maintenance lacks the expertise to
implement successfully the Five-Year Maintenance Program.
4.13      The technical assistance input proposed in the present project will
help the Bureau of Construction and Maintenance with four experts for a two-
year period each, to advise the four Chiefs of the Divisions of Construction,
Maintenance, Design, and Soils and Materials. In addition, two short-term
experts will be employed in the Maintenance Division to assist with the
implementation of the Road Maintenance Program, one to help with the imple-
mentation and improvement of operations of the diverse maintenance crews, the
other to assist in implementing the road restoration component. The Bureau of
Equipment will also be strengthened with one expert to advise the Director,
also for a two-year period, in organizing a modern and efficient workshop net-
work with proper spare parts control and management system, and with two
short-term experts, one to help with the reorganization of the spare parts
depots and the procurement of spares, the other to assist in the preparation
of specifications, bid documents, and evaluation of bids for the procurement
of equipment, tools, and workshop machinery.  An expert has been appointed to
assist the Director of the Planning and Development Service from July 1, 1976
for a two-year period, in developing statistical data, including traffic counts,
to improve the preparation of highway programs.  The cost of his services up
to the effective date of the Loan Agreement, not exceeding US$50,000, is
recommended for retroactive financing under the project. A total of 168
man/months will be required to carry out this Technical Assistance Program
(Table 16). During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that qualified consultants would be retained under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 20 -
4.14      A Bank staff member was seconded in September 1973 under the Second
Highway Project to establish the IBRD Projects Office in the DPH, responsible
for the monitoring of the implementation of projects and the preparation of
future projects. He was succeeded in July 1975 by his Filipino Deputy. In
view of the considerably expanded work load, the Government has requested the
return of the same person to advise the Executive Director of IBRD Projects
Office, with the post to be financed again under the Second Highway Project,
Loan 950-PH.
(iv) Training
4.15      A small training program is proposed in the project and consists of
three Training Advisers, two to assist the existing Training Units located in
the Personnel Division of the Administrative Services and the Bureau of Equip-
ment, and one to start training facilities in the Bureau of Construction
and Maintenance. The latter Bureau has no formal training unit and so far,
has relied on ad hoc seminars conducted in the field by local and headquar-
ters personnel. The details of the program and the training experts' services
are given in Annex 2. The services which are expected to be provided by a
consulting firm will extend over a two-year period and involve 72 man/months
at about US$6,000 per man/month. During loan negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that the qualifications and conditions of the
consultants to be appointed as training advisers will be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(v) Workshops
4.16      Design and construction supervision of workshops will be undertaken
by local consultants. The design work will consist of reviewing existing DPH
plans, revising as necessary and preparing detailed drawings and bid documents.
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
the qualifications and conditions of the consultants to be appointed will be
satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.17      The total cost of the project, including right-of-way cost, is es-
timated at about 1,438 million pesos or US$196 million equivalent. The total
cost includes physical contingencies of 10% on all items, and price conting-
encies of 24% and 21% for civil works and consulting services respectively
over a four-year period and 8% for equipment over a one-year period. Infla-
tion for civil works has been assumed to be 12% p.a. 1977-79 and 10% p.a.
for 1980; for consulting services, 8% p.a. for 1977-79 and 7% p.a. for 1980;
and for equipment, 8% p.a. The Bank loan of US$95 million will finance the
foreign exchange cost of the project estimated to be about 48% of total costs.
Detailed costs estimates are given in Table 17 and are summarized below:



- 21 -
Foreign
(Pesos Million)        (US$ Million)        Exchange
Item               Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
(x)
A.  Construction and Improve-
ment of:
1.  National Roads
(500 km)               294.8  294.8  589.6  40.2   40.2   80.4
2.  Minor Roads (230 km)   31.9   32.0   63.9   4.3    4.4    8.7
Sub-Total (A)    326.7  326.8  653.5  44.5   44.6   89.1           50
B.  Road Maintenance Program  132.6  158.1  290.7  18.1   21.5   39.6            54
C.  Consulting Services          47.8   44.9   92.7   6.5    6.1   12.6          48
Sub-Total (A,B & C)   507.1  529.8 1036.9  69.1   72.2  141.3           51
D.  Contingencies
1.  Physical                 50.7   52.9  103.6   6.9    7.2   14.1
2.  Price                   115.4  114.6  230.0  16.0   15.6   31.6
Sub-Total (D)    166.1  167.5  333.6  22.9   22.8   45.7           50
E.  Right-of-Way                 67.6    -      67.6   9.2      -      9.2
TOTAL        740.8  697.3 1438.1 101.2   95.0  196.2         48
4.18      The estimated average construction cost per km (excluding contin-
gency allowances) is about US$160,000 for the national roads, and about
US$40,000 for the minor roads. Construction supervision by consultants is
estimated at about 8% of construction cost. The man-month rate for expatri-
ate consultants is estimated to be about US$8,250 or US$6,000, excluding
international travel expenses and local costs for housing and local travel.
These costs are reasonable.
4.19      The cost estimates were prepared independently by the consultants
who did the detailed engineering and by the DPH for their respective roads.
The estimates were checked and assembled by the general consultants. Quanti-
ties have been derived from detailed designs except for the Passi-Dao Road (35
km) for which cost estimates were based on preliminary engineering. Detailed
engineering is expected to be completed early in 1977. Unit prices were based
on an analysis of the cost of labor, materials, depreciation, operation of
equipment, and contractors' overheads and profits. A 10% contingency allow-
ance for quantity and time overruns is considered adequate. Cost estimates
for construction supervision, feasibility studies and detailed engineering
have been based on experience on the Second Highway Project. During loan
negotiations, final cost estimates for the project were agreed with the
Government.



- 22 -
C. Execution
4.20      The DPH, through its Projects Office (Chart No. 16191), and
assisted by qualified consultants, will be responsible for the execution of
the project. The Projects Office was set up to supervise Bank financed
highway projects and includes on its staff a Bank highway engineer seconded
to the DPH. The project will be executed over a four-year period and should
be completed in December 1980. A schedule showing the phases of implementa-
tion for each component of the project is attached at the end of the report
(Chart No. 16234). Road works will extend over three years and the Road
Maintenance Program elements on Luzon Island will require two years to execute.
The Program will be fully operational on this island by late 1978. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed the proposed implementation schedule
and agreed to submit regular quarterly progress reports to the Bank to mon-
itor the overall implementation of the project, in addition to the special
reporting requirements for the Road Maintenance Program (para 4.09).
4.21      The road construction and improvement works have been divided into
13 contracts for the national roads and 12 for the minor roads. The sizes of
the contracts were determined to obtain economies of scale on the larger works
and provide a number of smaller contracts to encourage local contractors.
Cost estimates for individual contracts for the national roads range from
US$1.4 to US$8.8 million and for the minor roads from US$0.25 to US$1.0 million
equivalent. Some 72 local contractors, four local/ foreign joint ventures,
and five foreign contractors have applied for prequalification. Of these, 19
local contractors have been found qualified to execute contracts between
US$2.0 million and US$5.4 million. Five local contractors, three local/
foreign joint ventures and all five foreign contractors have been prequalified
to execute the largest contracts in the project. Six of the local contractors
have won 10 of the 14 contracts of the Second Highway Project, and with the
exception of one, are performing satisfactorily. The bidding schedule has
been arranged to allow unsuccessful bidders to bid on subsequent contracts.
The bids for the first contracts were opened before loan negotiations and are
close to the cost estimates. Contracts will be awarded soon after the signing
of the loan agreement.
4.22      The local contracting industry has benefited from several measures
instituted by the Government to place it on an equal footing with foreign
contractors and to assist in other non-discriminatory ways. Foreign exchange
requirements of local contractors are readily made available by the Govern-
ment and equipment to be used on Bank-financed projects is allowed to be im-
ported duty-free. Advances of up to 15% of contract sums are permitted on
all contracts and retention funds have been limited to 5% of sums due to con-
tractors. The contract conditions will include an adequate price adjustment
clause on major pay-items for price fluctuation of basic materials, fuel,
labor, and plant. Experience in the Second Highway Project shows that the
local contracting industry is competitive and does not need special assis-
tance.



- 23 -
4.23      Civil works for the construction and expansion of workshop facili-
ties are expected to be executed by local contractors. The estimated cost of
the works will be about US$200,000-US$400,000 for each base shop and less for
the area shops. The workshop designs and construction supervision will be
carried out by local consultants. The local building industry is efficient
and competitive and the proposed arrangements are satisfactory.
4.24      The potential of the project for relieving unemployment in the
country has been considered. Although the contractors are left to choose
their own construction methods, employment of a large amount of labor is
expected to be generated by the prospective award of most contracts to local
contractors. Many local sub-contractors, using labor-intensive methods,
particularly for the supply of materials, are also expected to be employed by
both local and foreign contractors. An ILO technical assistance team is
currently undertaking studies on labor intensive schemes. The Bank will
monitor its work and, if appropriate, will consider a component in the next
highway project as a pilot program for labor intensive methods.
4.25      No significant ecological problems are expected.  The reconstructed
roads will have improved drainage facilities which will benefit the immediate
environment. Noise and dust will also be considerably reduced due to better
surfacing; wider and well constructed shoulders will contribute to road
safety. The roads will largely follow existing alignments, thus minimizing
disturbances to property and persons.
4.26      Some additional right-of-way will be required for the works.  In the
Second Highway Project, contractors did not get full access to sites on many
contracts for a year or more after award of contracts. In view of serious
problems in the past, confirmation was obtained during negotiations that
acquisition of right-of-way will be completed on each road section before any
contract for construction or improvement is awarded.
D. Procurement
4.27      Contracts for the construction and improvement of the national roads
amounting to about US$80 million will be awarded to prequalified contractors
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". Contracts (average value about US$500,000
each) for the reconstruction of minor roads amounting to about US$9 million
and small contracts (value to be determined by Government as detailed program
is prepared) for the road restoration works amounts to about US$21 million will
be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of local competitive
bidding following procedures and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Contracts
for civil works for the construction and extension of workshops (average value
about US$150,000 each), including installation of workshop equipment, amounting



- 24 -
to about US$4.3 million will also be awarded to qualified contractors on the
basis of local competitive bidding following procedures and conditions accept-
able to the Bank. Foreign contractors operating in the country will be allowed
to participate in all local bidding.   Workshop equipment, tools, road main-
tenance equipment, spare parts and components amounting to about US$14.3
million will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of CIF price of
imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the shelf
items under US$15,000 and procurement of hand tools for road maintenance may
follow normal Government procurement procedures and conditions which are
acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of such purchases should not exceed
US$500,000.
E. Financing
4.28      The proposed loan will finance the foreign exchange component of
road construction and improvement, road maintenance program and-consulting
services (including training). An analysis of the Government Highway
Investment Program shows that no undue difficulties are expected in the
provision of funds for financing the local currency component of the project.
During the construction period, FY1977-80, only 10-15% of the budgetary funds
expected to be allocated annually for highway expenditures will be needed to
match the foreign component of the proposed Bank Project (Table 2).
F. Disbursements
4.29      Disbursements from the loan account will be on the basis of:  (a)
50% of total cost of construction and improvement of roads; (b) 30% of total
cost of construction of workshops; (c) 40% of costs of road restoration works;
(d) 100% of CIF cost of imported equipment, spare parts, tools, and components,
if procured directly abroad or 65%, if procured locally; (e) 100% of ex-factory
cost of equipment, spare parts, tools including hand tools, and components
produced locally; (f) 100% of foreign costs of consulting services or, if
local consultants are used, 45% of total costs. Withdrawals in respect of
payments for expenditures on the road restoration works to be carried out by
contracts over the first two years of the maintenance program commencing in
January 1977 will be made only after the program has been approved by the Bank
for each year. Retroactive financing of about US$50,000 equivalent is recom-
mended for financing the services of an expert to assist the Director of the
Planning & Development Service, DPH. The schedule of estimated disbursements
is given in Table 18. During loan negotiations, agreement on this schedule
was reached with the Government.



- 25 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Third Highway Project will continue Bank assistance to the
Philippines in improving and modernizing the road transport system. The
benefits accruing from the project are essentially the reduction of the
high costs of moving goods and people and provision of easier access to
some isolated areas with high economic development potential. The project
will help to cope with the present and prospective growth of transport demand,
help to maintain price competitiveness of export products and assist the
implementation of the Government's policy for decentralizing industry. The
demand for domestic transport, both freight and passengers, in recent years
increased slightly faster than the growth rate of the economy, in spite of a
severe, but apparently temporary, slowdown since the "oil crisis" in 1974
(paras 3.03 to 3.07).
5.02      The construction and improvement of national roads.(500 km) and the
reconstruction of minor roads (230 km) in the project will help the Govern-
ment in its efforts to achieve the ambitious target of constructing and
improving about 25,700 km of national, provincial and local roads, during the
next Investment Program (1977-80). This project supports the Government's
present strategy of giving emphasis to reconstruction of poorly maintained
roads and to the paving of existing gravel roads, which still account for over
half of the national network, rather than concentrating on the construction of
new high-standard highways. A substantial effort is being made to develop the
capabilities of regional offices to design and supervise the construction and
improvement of minor roads such as provincial or local (feeder) roads. Feasi-
bility studies of roads have shown that for most sections, at the present
time, the optimum first stage of improvement is, depending on traffic volumes,
to pave or gravel the road largely on the present alignment, with only minimum
improvement of sharp curves, widening and improvements of drainage, etc. The
present approach of minimizing and phasing investments enables the highway
system to meet a much larger total transport demand at lower cost; it follows
the recommendations of the consultants and of the Bank.
5.03      The economic analysis of the project roads was carried out by con-
sultants, Norconsult, in association with Hoff and Overgaard (Norway/Denmark)
in Feasibility Studies completed in mid-1975. It was updated in mid-1976 by
the general consultants, Scott Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (U.K.) as
part of the detailed engineering study carried out jointly by local firms
and DPH Regional Offices. The economic setting and the present traffic vol-
umes of the roads for construction and improvement are described in Annex 1.
The consultants' estimated traffic assignment, expected volumes and growth
rates (Tables 19 and 20) are based on DPH traffic counts organized for the



- 26 -
feasibility studies in 1973. The general consultants supplemented those
counts with special counts performed in May 1976, which were taken as the
base year.
5.04      The expected growth rates of traffic between 1976 and 1999 vary,
among the roads, from 7.5% to 10% for cars, 6% to 9% for buses, 4% to 6.5% for
trucks, and 2% to 4% for jeepneys. The growth rates are based on past trends
which were adjusted to take into account expected increases of GNP, population,
and regional per-capita income. The growth rates of traffic were further
adjusted to reflect the recent slow-down in production, registration of
vehicles and gasoline consumption (Tables 4 and 5). The generated or induced
traffic is expected to increase total traffic by amounts ranging from 20% to
30% at the opening of the new project roads. These increases were derived
from studies of earlier cases where the elasticity of demand of road transport
as a function of the reduction of operating costs was measured. The rates
were adjusted to take account of development potential of industries and other
activities such as rural settlement, fishing, timber and tourism. Traffic
diversion from other roads will occur for three of the ten project roads, but
will be significant only for Iloilo-Jaro and Zarraga-Passi. Traffic diversion
from rail will occur on the latter road and will probably lead to the closing
down of the antiquated Panay Railway when, in the future, the road section
between Passi and Roxas will be constructed.
B. Construction and Improvement of National Roads
5.05      The 10 road sections for construction and improvement (Annex 1)
are scattered in the southern islands of the archipelago. Four roads are
located in Pdnay (144 km), two on Negros (105 km), two on Cebu (68 km), one
on Mindanao (156 km), and one in southern Luzon (27 km).  The average traffic
on some of those roads in the vicinity of important centers (Iloilo, Bacolod
and Cebu) is high, between 2,400 and 5,900 AADT in 1976, reflecting very
diversified economic activities including, in addition to agriculture, pro-
cessing of sugar cane (mainly Panay and Negros), mining on Cebu, trade and
services. All the other roads, with traffic ranging between 300 and 1,700 AADT,
are of the rural type, with some fast growing settlements in the case of the
Mindanao road.
5.06      The benefits from the proposed construction and improvement of those
ten roads were determined as the difference or savings in road user costs
with and without the project, for the normal and diverted traffic and for
the generated traffic; benefits also comprise travel time savings restricted
to working time, and reduction in road maintenance costs. The average vehicle
operating costs for each road are given in Table 21, and were assessed for
typical vehicles. Savings on the new improved roads range between 19% and
to 50%, taking into account road standards, traffic density, speed, side
friction and passengers' time. The savings in working time for passenger
vehicles were quantified on the basis of 6.40 pesos/hr. per average car,
3.60 per jeepneys, and 11.80 per buses. Working time savings were quantified



- 27 -
for the driver and helpers of buses and trucks and were included in fixed
costs. Benefits from reduction of accidents were also quantified but are not
significant.
5.07      The streams of costs and benefits are shown in detail in Table 23.
Economic returns (ERs) for each road, calculated over an assumed 20 year
service life of the investment, vary between 18% and 36%. The sensitivity
of the ERs was tested by varying construction costs by +15% and benefits by
+25%. Under the pessimistic assumption of an increase in construction costs
concurrent with a decrease in benefits, the ERs would be between 15% and 31%
(Table 26). Exclusion of passenger time savings would reduce the above re-
turns by about two to six percentage points. Thus, the highway construction
elements of the project are likely to yield quite satisfactory returns.
C. Reconstruction of Minor Roads
5.08      The 16 minor road sections to be reconstructed and improved under
the project are located in the islands of Panay (74 km), Negros (105 km)
and Mindanao (51 km). Two are provincial and the other local/feeder roads,
serving largely regional interests as they link small towns and villages to
national roads to be constructed and improved also under the project. The
minor roads will help in the development of rather isolated regions with
dense population or having potential for new rural settlements such as in
Mindanao. The areas served depend essentially on agriculture, particularly
on rice, sugar cane, pineapple, coconut, corn and vegetables. The present
condition of these gravel roads is poor, and deterioration is accentuated
with the increase of traffic. Traffic volumes range between 100 and 370
AADT (Table 20), except for three small sections where volumes are 50 AADT
or less. The roads require little or no realignment within the service
life to satisfy their multi-purpose transport function. Annex 1, (para 29),
gives additional details on the improvement levels proposed.
5.09      Of the assessed benefits, about 65% represent savings in vehicle
operating costs due to the improved conditions on the newly paved or graveled
roads compared with the existing rough earth or gravel surfaces, about 15%
result from reduction in road maintenance costs, and about 10% each from
reduction in travel time and generation of new traffic. The average vehicle
operating costs, are shown in Table 22, and take into account highway standards,
terrain condition, vehicle speed, and passengers time. The vehicle operating
costs per km will be reduced by 28% to 54%. As the roads will follow closely
their existing alignments, negligible benefit is obtained from distance
reduction, but savings occur from reduced travel time due to increased speed
of vehicles. Hourly time values per vehicle are identical with those used in
the analysis of the national roads (para 5.06). In addition to reduced travel
costs benefiting the road users, part of which may be passed on to urban
consumers and to farmers in the areas served, there are quantified benefits
from the reduction of accidents due to better road surface. The new roads



- 28 -
would also bring other non-quantifiable benefits such as quicker and improved
services, and reduction of the nuisance caused by heavy dust resulting from
increasing traffic on the existing gravel surfaces.
5.10      The estimated costs and benefits in 1980, the opening year,  and the
first-year benefits (FYB) as a percentage of costs for each road are shown in
Table 24. FYB range between 10% and 60% with passenger time savings included,
and between 9% and 56% without. An analysis has been made which indicates
that ERs over a 10 year period would be in excess of 10% in all cases. The
sensitivity of the FYB was tested under the same assumptions as for the highway
construction (para 5.07) and the pessimistic assumption gives FYB ranging
between 8% and 49% (Table 26). These FYB in 1980 are sufficient in view of
the expected high traffic growth, to yield a stream of net benefits which
will justify the reconstruction of those minor roads.
D. Road Maintenance Program
5.11      The recommended program for improving the standard of maintenance
covers about 22,500 km of graveled and paved national roads (paras 3.19 to
3.21). The program is expected to yield considerable savings in vehicle
operating costs for the whole network. These savings would accrue gradually
while the program is being implemented by: (i) preventing further increases
in vehicle operating costs; and (ii) gradually improving road conditions
and reducing vehicle operating costs. Only the latter element was included
in the quantification of the program's benefits in the economic analysis
carried out by consultants, Kampsax/Berger.
5.12      The estimated costs and benefits streams from vehicl operating
cost savings expected over the five-year program (1977-1981) are shown in
Table 25. The savings resulting from the normal maintenance and the restor-
ation part of the program were estimated for categories of roads at certain
levels of traffic. Based on most probable estimates of maintenance costs,
including a sizeable increase in recurrent costs, and benefits from vehicle
operating cost savings on gravel and paved roads, the maintenance program over
the five years would yield a benefit/cost ratio of 2.3, based on present
values in 1977, with discounting at 12% p.a. A sensitivity test with cost
increases of 20% and a reduction in benefits of 20% would reduce the benefit/
cost ratio to 1.5. Alternatively, with 20% lower costs and 20% higher ben-
efits the benefit/cost ratio would increase to 3.5 (Table 26).
5.13      Even on pessimistic assumptions, the maintenance program would
yield satisfactory returns; this indicates that road maintenance, at a low
cost per km, is a highly rewarding investment deserving highest priority in
the road development program. Furthermore, without a maintenance program,
considerable resources would be required in a few years to rehabilitate the
network. The savings of these resources was not taken into account in cal-
culating the benefits of the proposed program, but make the maintenance
program even more attractive.



- 29 -
E. Risks
5.14      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The
risks, normally, are in the estimates of traffic growth rates and savings
in vehicle operating costs and they have been accounted for.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on a number of matters. The most important of these are that
the Government will:
(a)  put into operation not later than December 31, 1977
a country wide system to collect, record and process
traffic data and make such modifications to the said
system as shall be agreed with the Bank (para 3.06);
(b)  fill all vacant positions for professional staff in
the DPH Planning and Development Service consisting
of 3 economists and 15 engineers not later than
December 31, 1977; (para 3.11);
(c)  commit funds annually for road maintenance including
restoration, in accordance with the agreed Five-Year
Maintenance Program (para 3.14); and
(d)  implement the Road Maintenance Program for national
roads including the restoration part, fulfill re-
porting requirements, and take specific measures
as detailed in para 4.09.
6.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$95
million equivalent with a term of 20 years, including a four and a half-year
grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Roads
A. National Roads (500 km)
LUZON
Legaspi-Tabaco (25 km)
1.        The road starts at the end of an existing cement concrete pave-
ment in Legaspi City (95,000), the Capital of Albay Province. It runs
north for 9 km through rice fields and coconut plantations on a narrow
strip of land between the coast and the slopes of the Mayon Volcano. Popu-
lation density along this secton is high and there is low to medium road-
side friction most of the way. The road then deviates from the northerly
direction to pass through Sto. Domingo (17,000) and then through rolling
terrain to terminate in Tabaco at the junction with the Ligao provincial
road. The current traffic volumes range between 1,120 to 1,800 vpd with
a weighted average of 1,570 vpd which is expected to grow at an average
rate of about 6% p.a. to about 3,440 vpd in 1989 and 6,470 vpd in 1999.
The road is part of a road linking Legaspi City with Tiwi hot water springs
which is a tourist attraction.
2.        The alignment is fairly straight and generally follows the coast-
line except for a sharp curve through Sto. Domingo. The gradients are fair
and are between 3 and 5%. No horizontal realignments are required but the
levels have to be raised in many areas as many sections of the road are
subject to floQding. The road pavement has varying width and is fair to
bad asphalt with failures in some areas. During the floods after the 1968
eruption of the Mayon Volcano, the Basud River was filled up with boulders
which damaged the existing bridge. Rivers and creeks erode the slopes of
the range of volcanos (the active Mayon and the extinct Mount Masaraga and
Mount Malinao) and the materials transported by water raises the river beds
and causes flooding in adjacent areas.
3.        The improvements to be made on the road consist of raising road
levels in flooded areas and constructing a new pavement in asphalt concrete
6.10 m wide except for the first kilometer which will have a cement pavement
7.00 m wide. A bypass is proposed at Sto. Domingo which will reduce travel
distance by 2 km. Several new culverts will also be constructed and many
short bridges will either be widened or completely rebuilt. The bridge on
the Basud River will be rehabilitated, including clearing of the river bed.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
PANAY
Iloilo-Jaro (9 km)
4.        This road is a new road linking the Iloilo Port area with roads to
the north of Jaro, a suburb of Iloilo City (210,000). The road is intended
primarily to serve port traffic originating from or destined to the northern
and eastern parts of Panay Island. It would bypass the urban areas between
Jaro and Iloilo Port and is expected to relieve existing traffic congestion
in the Iloilo-Jaro corridor including the Forbes Bridge with a present traf-
fic of 28,000 vpd.
5.        The Iloilo port, airport and railway station are the main transport
terminals in Panay for travel and trade with the rest of the Philippines.
The transport of sugar and molasses is directly connected with the port
as most of this bulk cargo can be loaded directly into ships for export to
foreign countries. Most of the storage facilities are located in or near
the port area.
6.        The road will incorporate some of the existing roads in Jaro and
the Iloilo Port area. The new alignment will cross open land now used for
fish ponds, rice fields and other agricultural purposes. It will have con-
nections with the airport, Jaro town and an industrial estate to be developed
between Jaro and Iloilo Port. In the opening year 1980, traffic on this road
is expected to be about 7,890 vpd. It is expected to grow at the rate of 8.4%
p.a. to about 16,310 vpd in 1989 and about 36,530 vpd in 1999. In a first
stage, the road will be 2-lane 7.0 m wide for most of its length except
for a 1 km section south of Iloilo River where the road will be 4-lane up to
the end of the project. Earthworks and culverts, however, will be constructed
for 4 lanes throughout. The road will be fenced and will have controlled
access.
Zarraga-Passi (45 km)
7.        Starting at the junction with the Jaro-Barotac Viejo road at
Zarraga (11,000) the road proceeds in a northerly direction to Passi (36,000)
located along the Jalaur River. The road essentially runs through flat rice
and sugarcane land with the exception of a hilly section between Dingle and
Passi. Besides Dingle (24,000), the road passes through Pototan (38,000)
and Duenas (20,000). The road serves the two sugar mills near Passi. Current
traffic volume is between 160 and 760 vpd. The weighted average is about 480
vpd which is expected to grow at an average rate of about 7.5% p.a. to about
1,220 vpd in 1980 and 2,770 vpd in 1999.
8.        The improvement proposed include three re-aligned portions, namely
between Zarraga and Pototan (13.5 km), beyond Pototan to 5 km north of Dingle
for a total length of 9.8 km and a 3.3 km by-pass around Duenas. The exist-
ing road through Dingle will also be improved. The entire road will have a
6.1 m cement concrete pavement except for the existing road through Dingle



ANNEX 1
Page 3
which will have a 6.1 m bituminous surface treatment. The existing five
span 140 m steel truss bridge over the Jalaur River will be cleared and
painted. Two new bridges will be required on the realignments.
Jaro-Barotac Viejo (57 km)
9.        The road starts in Jaro, a suburb of Iloilo City (210,000) and
proceeds in a northeasterly direction to the coastal town of Barotac Viejo
(15,000). The road traverses generally flat land, the first 13 km through
densely populated areas up to Zarraga (11,000). The road then crosses rice
and sugar cane fields passing through Barotac Nuevo (30,000) where the
Santos Lopez sugar central plant is located.
10.       The horizontal alignment is generally good except at the junctions
with other roads and a few sharp curves between Barotac Nuevo and Barotac
Viejo. The road levels are low in many areas between Jaro and Barotac Nuevo
and proper drainage has not been provided resulting in continual subgrade
failures. Apart from a good cement concrete pavement on the first few kilo-
meters from Jaro and a stretch through Barotacc Nuevo, the rest of the road
pavement is in bad to very bad condition and consists of cement concrete with
asphalt overlay, old macadan or bituminous surface treatment. There are
also some bad gravel sections. Three bridges including the 178 m structure
over the Jalaur River at Barotac Nuevo have to be replaced and others will
need minor rehabilitation. Current traffic volumes vary from about 2,400
vpd near Jaro to about 275 vpd near Barotac Viejo with a weighted average of
about 1,020 vpd, which is expected to grow at an average rate of about 7.5%
p.a. to about 2,570 vpd in 1989 and 5,730 vpd in 1999.
11.       The improvements proposed include reconstruction of the road to
7 m wide pavement standards from Jaro to Zarraga and then 6.1 m to Barotac
Viejo. The road will have a cement concrete pavement up to Barotac Nuevo
and bituminous surface treatment for the rest of its length. A major re-
alignment is proposed south of Barotac Nuevo to take advantage of a bridge
now under construction over the winding Jalaur River. Three new bridges
will be built and two others will be repaired.
Passi-Dao (35 km)
12.     Thw road starts at Passi (36,000) and proceeds directly north over
rolling terrain and following on existing gravel road in bad condition for
about 12 km. The road continues over slightly hilly terrain towards Dumaras
(24,000) which it bypasses. The road then traverses flat land utilizing
part of an existing road and goes on to Cuartero (15,000). It continues over
similar terrain to join the existing Calinog-Dao road at a point north of
Dumalag (19,000). This existing road is in poor condition and generally
subject to flooding. The area served by the road is largely sugarcane fields
with some rice fields towards the northern end. A sugar central mill is
situated near Dumalag.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.     The proposed new road is an alternative route to the Callinog-Dao
road which is 11 miles longer. The new road will parallel an existing
badly serviced rail route which is scheduled to be phased out.   Traffic
diverted to the new road is estimated to be about 420 vpd in 1980 and
expected to grow at about 6.3% p.a. to 860 vpd in 1989 and, then, at about
8.3% p.a. to 1910 vpd in 1999. The road will be constructed to 6.0 m
wide pavement standards with double bituminous surface treatment. Three
low standard feeder roads totalling about 10 km will also be included in
the improvements.
NEGROS
Bacolod-Silay (14 km)
14.       The road begins at the provincial capital of Bacolod (215,000) and
runs north through suburban industrial and commercial areas over flat coastal
plains to Silay (80,000). The road is a section of a coastal road circling
Negros Island. Several minor roads lead to sugar plantations and small towns
in the interior. There are several sugar mills along the road. Traffic is
very heavy along the road and is currently 5,900 vpd. It is expected to grow
at an average rate of about 7% p.a. to about 13,790 in 1980 and 21,800 vpd
in 1999.
15.       The horizontal alignment is generally good with long tangents but
there are some small curves. The road embankments are high enough to prevent
flooding. About half the road is paved with cement concrete and the balance
with poor quality asphalt of varying width. The road needs widening to cope
with current and expected traffic.
16.       The improvements proposed consist of widening the existing two lane
road to a 4-lane highway (2 x 7.0 m wide) with divided carriageways in rural
areas and a cement concrete pavement throughout.
Bacolod-Kabankalan (91 km)
17.       The road runs south from Bacolod through several towns, of which
the important ones are Bago (83,000) and Pontevedra (31,000) to Kabankalan
(84,000). The road generally passes over flat agricultural land cultivated
mainly with sugar. There is a short section on rolling terrain between Ponte-
vedra and Kabankalan. Traffic between Bacolod and Bago is heavy, currently,
4,550 vpd which reduces to about 1,040 vpd near Pontevedra and then increases
to about 1,700 vpd towards Kabankalan. Between Bacolod and Pontevedra the
weighted average traffic is about 2,930 vpd which is expected to grow at an
average rate of about 7% p.a. to about 5,910 vpd in 1989 and 14,200 vpd in
1999.
18.       The existing horizontal alignment is mostly satisfactory except
at river crossings. The road levels are also satisfactory except for some
low sections, particularly near Bago. The existing pavement consists of



ANNEX I
Page 5
short sections of cement concrete alternating with sections of poor asphalt
concrete. Drainage needs improvement along certain stretches.
19.       The improvements proposed will incorporate as much of the existing
pavement and drainage as possible. The cement concrete sections which are
satisfactory will be strengthened with an asphalt overlay and the other
sections will be reconstructed in asphaltic concrete. The new road will be
7.0 m wide between Bacolod and Pontevdra and 6.1 m wide for the remaining
length.
CEBU
Cebu-Carmen South (33 km)
20.       The road connects Cebu City (400,000) with the industrial estate
at Danao (55,000) and goes further north to Carmen (23,000). The first part
of the road passes through densely built up areas for about 12 km. The road
then follows the coastline all the way. The industrial activity in Danao is
centered around a sugar mill, a cement factory and a small steel mill. The
main activities north of Danao are fishing and subsistence farming. Some
sugar plantations are also served by the road. Traffic is heavy near Cebu
City but further north it becomes lighter. Current traffic volumes range
between 1,400-4,250 vpd with a weighted average of about 2,380 vpd which is
expected to grow at a rate of about 6.9% p.a. to 5,270 vpd in 1989 and 10,410
in 1999.
21.       The existing horizontal and vertical alignments are generally satis-
factory except for some sections where the road levels are low and subject to
flooding. The existing pavement consists of cement concrete which is mostly
in good condition alternating with low grade asphalt concrete.
22.       The improvement proposed include a by-pass at Danao and raising
the road where necessary to overcome flooding and easing some of the curves.
The existing cement concrete sections will be strengthened with an asphalt
overlay and the rest will have a new asphalt concrete pavement. The pavement
will be 7.0 m wide up to Liloan and then 6.1 m.
Naga-Toledo (35 km)
23.       This road is a cross island road linking Naga on the East Coast
of Cebu Island with Toledo on the West Coast and passing through Lutopan
(10,000) where a large open pit copper mine is in operation. Toledo is also
the port for export of copper. The terrain is mountainous and the road has
an extremely tortuous horizontal alignment in the central section and very
steep gradients. The mining town of Lutopan has grown rapidly and haphazardly
without any planning with many buildings within the road right-of-way. At
present, traffic between the east coast and Lutopan uses an alternative route
about 12 km north of Naga. Current traffic volumes on the alternative route
ranges from 280 to 1,100 vpd with a weighted average of about 810 vpd. This



ANNEX I
Page 6
traffic is expected to divert through Naga. Traffic growth rate is estimated
to be an average of about 6.5% p.a. and traffic is expected to reach an
average of 1900 vpd in 1989 and 3,700 vpd in 1999.
24.       The road is to be reconstructed with a 6.1 m wide asphalt concrete
pavement from Naga to Lutopan and then 7.0 m wide cement wide concrete pave-
ment up to Toledo. It is also proposed to construct a bypass and access
roads to relieve congestion in Lutopan.
MINDANAO
Puerto-Kibawe (156 km)
25.       This road is a part of the main road southwards through central
Mindanao and the only connection from the coast to Bukidnon Province. The
road commences at the coastal town of Puerto near Cagayan de Oro City
(130,000) and passes through Impasugong (9,000), Malaybalay (47,000),
Valencia (40,000), Don Carlos (33,000) to Kibawe (56,000) in central Bukid-
non Province. The agricultural potential of the area will be greatly in-
creased with the improvement of the road as most agricultural produce goes
to the coast. At present corn, rice and sugar cane are the main crops
grown but there are a number of large ranches, and logging is a major in-
dustry.
26.       The road starts at sea level at Puerto and climbs a steep es-
carpment to the Bukidnon Plateau. It crosses three canyons in the first
70 km before reaching Malaybalay. The alignment is tortuous with steep
gradients but it improves after the canyons. A serious landslide occurred
in June 1975 in the Atugan Canyon area resulting in the temporary closure
of the road. The affected road section remains unstable and heavy maintenance
is required to keep it open.
27.       The existing surface from Puerto to Malaybalay combines stretches
of bituminous surface treatment with short stretches of concrete of 6.1 m
width and stretches of gravel of varying width. From Malaybalay, the road
runs south through a fertile valley. The road generally has a gravel surface
with intermittent sections of concrete and bituminous surface treatment.
28.       Current traffic volumes range from 750 to 1300 vpd on the Puerto
Impasugong section with high traffic near Puerto. Traffic volumes increase
to about 830 vpd as the road moves south to Malaybalay and then decreases
to about 480 vpd on the last section from Don Carlos to Kibawe. Traffic
growth rates are expected to be about 7-8% p.a. along the road with the
higher growth expected near Kibawe. Average traffic volumes along sections
of the road are estimated to range between 1,240 and 2,170 vpd in 1989 and
2,900 and 4,600 vpd in 1999.
29.       The proposed improvements with minor corrections and straightening
follow the existing alignment except for a by-pass section at Bancud.
The Bancud by-pass reduces the road length by 2.0 km. The road will be



ANNEX 1
Page 7
improved with a 6.1 m cement concrete pavement from Puerto to Aglayan and
bituminous surface treatment from Aglayan to Kibawe. In addition, minimum
works will be carried out to improve 5 feeder roads totalling about 35 km
providing access to undeveloped areas along the main road.
B. Minor Roads (230 km)
30.       The present condition of these roads is very poor with rough earth
or gravel surface, narrow widths and lacking adequate drainage. Many sections
of the roads lie in frequently flooded low lying areas and some bridges are
missing, thus making the roads impassable during rainy seasons. Their recon-
struction will benefit mainly the rural population served by the roads and
increase the feasibility of the national roads in the project. The improve-
ment to minor roads will consist mainly of widening, resurfacing with gravel
or, where traffic is high, double bituminous service treatment for eight
sections plus restoration of ditches, installation of culverts and raising of
road levels in frequently flooded areas. Some bridges will be built under the
program and many will be repaired. The works will be kept to a minimum and
are estimated to cost about US$40,000/km.
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staff Training Component
A. Present Staff Training Organization in DPH
1.        Training has been ongoing in the highway sub-sector for more
than 25 years, almost all of it being provided on-the-job by the various
functional units. However, the expansion of the road network together with
technological advances experienced in highway maintenance, construction and
equipment, have led to a need for more comprehensive and organized programs
of staff development aimed at both newly-recruited and existing personnel.
2.        Following the creation of the Department of Public Highways in
1974, Training Officer posts were established in headquarters and in the
regions as follows:
(a) Administrative Services
A senior Training Officer plus two assistants in head-
quarters and one Training Officer in each of the 14
regions.
(b) Bureau of Equipment
A senior Training Officer plus two assistants in head-
quarters and one Training Officer in each of the 14
regions.
(c) Bureau of Barangay Roads
One Training Officer in headquarters.
Most of these posts are filled, but insufficient care has been taken in
selecting staff who possess the right pedagogical and personal qualities.
Consequently, very little ongoing training of an organized nature is being
conducted. The headquarters staff also are not providing the kind of leader-
ship and support to regional Training Officers which is necessary to produce
an effective training effort.
B.   Training Requirements
3.        Estimates of priority training needs based on studies by Roy
Jorgensen and Associates Inc., and by the appraisal mission indicate the
following numbers and categories of staff requiring both orientation and
upgrading training over the next five years:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(a) Equipment Operators - 540 Staff
Training for crane, grader, roller, crusher and asphalt
plant operation.
(b) Equipment Servicing Mechanics - 860 Staff
Training in lubrication, coolants, tires, belts, pumps,
carburetors, brakes and mufflers.
(c) Maintenance Field Suprevisors - 1200 Staff
Training in road surface maintenance, base repairs,
ditch and drain maintenance, shoulder maintenance,
bridge maintenance.
(d) Management - 70 Staff
Training in management principles and systems,
performance budgeting etc.
4.        Training courses for categories (a), (b) and (c) above will be
conducted in the regions by the Training Officers located at regional head-
quarters. Management courses, together with training sessions for regional
Training Officers will be conducted in headquarters by the units responsible
in the Administrative Services and the Bureau of Equipment.
C.   Provision of Training Advisers
5.        In order for the above training objectives to be met, the project
will assist DPH in its manpower development efforts by financing the
services of three Training Advisers, each for a period of two years, plus
various training materials and equipment. The functions of the Training
Advisers will be as follows:
(a) Training Adviser in Equipment Operation and Maintenance
He will:
(i) develop courses and training materials together with
the training staff in the Bureau of Equipment;
(ii) develop a capability among the training staff to
up-date curricula and course materials as the need
arises;
(iii) conduct specimen courses for regional Training
Officers aimed at equipment operators and main-
tenance personnel, and provide visual-aid materials
to these Training Officers to enable them to con-
duct systematic training courses in their regions;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(iv) ensure that regional training staff are made fully
aware of their duties, give advice to them on the
performance of these duties, and set up a procedure
whereby field training staff are monitored and super-
vised by periodic visits from headquarters training
staff;
(b) Training Adviser in Highway Administration and Management
He will perform similar duties to those of the
Training Adviser above except that he will con-
centrate on the training of both headquarters
and regional office personnel working in admin-
istration and financial departments. In addition,
the Adviser will arrange and conduct seminars for
the top managers in DPH to improve their super-
visory and decision-making skills.
(c) Training Adviser in Highway Maintenance
Since no training organization exists in the Bureau
of Construction and Maintenance, which has no regional
Training Officer posts nor headquarters training staff,
the task of training highway maintenance personnel will
mainly be the responsibility of regional operational
staff. For this purpose, the training adviser in
charge of highway maintenance will be attached to the
Bureau of Construction and Maintenance. He will per-
form similar duties to those of the Training Advisers
above to ensure that all highway supervisors and gang
foremen are fully conversant with techniques of road,
shoulder, ditch, drain, and bridge maintenance currently
in use, and that such supervisors actively train their
own work-force so as to improve their effectiveness.
6.        Roy Jorgensen and Associates Inc. recently produced for the Govern-
ment of Indonesia under a Bank-financed project, a series of audio-visual
courses which are considered entirely suitable for the training needs of
DPH in the categories listed in para. 3. Since it is possible to dub a
second soundtrack onto the films to convert them into the local language,
there would be some advantage to be gained by DPH retaining the services
of the same consultant who assured that these courses could be translated
and made available to DPH, provided the three Training Advisers are con-
tracted from the firm.
7.        The estimated cost of the training component outlined above is
$550,000, made up as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Three Training Advisers, for two years each:
72 man-months at $6,000 per month ........*......    $432,000
Training equipment .....     ........................  35,000
Library material and model courses .............       15,000
Training supplies (films, slides, projectors) ..       40,000
Travel, logistic support ....                          38,000
$550,000
December 1976



ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I.   Feasibility Studies Reports
(a)  Road Feasibility Studies II, 2 text volumes and 6 appendix
volumes, June 1975, by Norconsult AS and Hoff & Overgaard
(Norway/Denmark)
(b) Five Year Maintenance Program, 1976-80, text volume and
2 appendix volumes, April 1975, by Kampsax/Berger
(Denmark/USA)
(c) Highway Maintenance Manual, May 1975 by Kampsax/Berger
(Denmark/USA)
II. Detailed Engineering Reports
(a) IBRD Highway Projects Guidelines, June 1976, by Scott Wilson,
Kirkpatrick & Partners (SWK), General Consultants (UK)
(b) General Specifications for-Road and Bridges in Philippines,
1976, by SWK
(c) General Conditions of Contract, 1976, by SWK
(d) Tender Documents, June 1976, by SWK
(e) Engineers Estimates and Drawing Volumes for the Project
Contracts, August 1976, by F.F. Cruz/Sauti (Philippines/
Italy), Certeza/Kampax (Philippines/Denmark) and Trans-
Asia (Philippines)
III. Government Reports
(a) Updated General Data Required for Appraisal (Philippines High-
way Projects), May 1976, by DPH
(b) Ten Year Instrastructure Development Programs, 1977-86, 2 volumes
I. Physical targets
II. Capital Investment Requirements, March 1976, by PPDO
of DPWTC
(c) Physical Perspective Plan for the Philippines, 1976, by PPDO
of DPWTC
December 1976



PHIT'PPINS
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data
1968-85
1968                   1974               1948-74                  1980              1974-80                1985                1980-85
Ton-Km                 Ton-Km            Average Annual            Ton-Km           Average Annual          Ton-Km            Average Annual
Freight             (million)   (() (million)  (%)                 Increase (7)        (million)  (%)         Increase (7)       (million)   (7)        Increase (.)
Road                      3,520      57          4,438    43.6              3.9             7,170    44.0             8.3             11,200    46.5            9.4
Coastal Shipping          2,510      41          5,433    53.4             13.7             8,740    53.7             8.2             11,900    49.4            6.3
Bli1way                      150      2            286      2.8            11.3               360      2.2            3.9                970      4.0          22.0
Aviation                      10      _             13      0.2             4.5                23      0.1           10.0                  39     0.1          11.1
Total                6.190    100          10.161   100.0             8.6             16.293   100.0            8.2              24.109   100.0            8.2
Pass-Km                 P88s-Km
Passenger           (million)    (.)        (million)   (                              ()illion} 7)
Road                     15,650      82         20,562    79.4              4.7            31,440    78.2             7.3            46,000      77.7           7.9
Coastal Shipping           1,570      8          2,462      9.5             7.8             3,740      9.3            7.2             5,080       8.6           6.3
Railway                   1,210       6          1,261      4.9             0.7             1,710      4.3            5.2             3,050       5.1          12.3
Aviation                     780      4          1,610      6.2            12.8             ,3290      8.2           12.7             5.085       8.6           9.1
Total               19.210    100          25.895   100.0              5.1            ML8L   100 o.0             7.6            59.215    LO0.o            8.1
Source: 1968 - Government and Consultants Estimates
1974, 1980 & 1985 - National Economic Development Authority.
December 1976.



PHILIPPnIES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Transport Investment Programs and Sources of Funds i
FY 1968 to FY 1980
(Pesos Million)
Actual Cash Releases                                               Provisionsal/_                          Planned 6|
FY 68-71                                                  FY 72-75                                                             FY 77-80
Program                                                   Program                                                              Prorn
Transport Mode       FY 1968   FY 1969   FY 1970   BY 1971   Totali            FY 1972   FY 1973   FY 1974   FY 1975   Total              B FY 1976   FY 1977   FY 1978   FY 1979   FY 1980   Total
Highways              260.3      229.7     319.6      243.2   1,052.8   81.2   357.6       647.8     609.3    1,339.5  2,954.2  79.6   2,358.5   2,039.1   2,689.6   3,082.7   3,315.4  11,186.8  81.3
Local j           217.5      226.5     252.0     227.7        -             307.4      590.2     546.1    1,120.5                     2,034.1   1,654.9   2,084.7   2,449.7   2,677.2
Foreign 3/  /      42.8        3.2      67.6      15.5        -              50.2       57.6      63.2      219.0                       324.4     384.2      604.9     633.0      63B.2
Airport and
Navigation           11.4       33.3      48.5       33.4     126.6   9.7      72.7       56.5      87.0        57.1    273.3   7.4       307.4     211.8      254.5     235.0      113.7     815.0   6.0
Local              10.2       32.1      33.3       16.6                      32.1       56.5      21.1        24.4                      178.2     136.8      179.5     170.5      113.7
Foreign             1.2        1.2      15.2       16.8                       40.6       -        65.9        32.7                      129.4      75.0       75.0      64.5        -
Port Works             34.6       22.3      18.7       35.7     111.3   8.5       15.9      42.7      88.3       149.7    296.6   8.0       245.0     243.8      191.9     101.5      105.6     642.8   4.7
Local              27.0       22.3      18.7       35.7                       13.9      41.4      72.2       109.0                      181.2     202.2      158.5      89.5       93.6
Foreign             7.6        -                    _                         2.0        1.3      16.1        40.7                       63.8      41.6       33.4      12.0       12.0
Railways                -          -                    -                 0.5    13.1       27.6      36.7                185.9   5.0       272.4     249.0      318.6     335.7      204.8   1,108.1   8.0
Local               -          -         6.9        -        6.9      0.5    13.1       27.6      36.7       &;.5                       162.2     164.9      196.4     186.2      109.3
Foreign             -          -         6.9        -                          -         -          -         47.0                      110.2      84.1      122.2     149.5       95.5
Total         306.3     285.3      393.7     312.3   1,297.6  100       459.3      774.6     821.3   1,654.8  3,710.0  100        3,183.5   2,743.7  3,454.6    3,754.9   3,739.5   13692.7   100
Local       254.7     280.9      310.9     280.0   1,126.5   87       366.5     715.7      676.1    1,315.4  3,073.7   83      2,555.7   2,158.8  2,619.1    2,895.9   2,993.8   10,667.6   78
Foreign     51.6        4.4      80.8       23.3     171.1   13        92.8      58.9      145.2      339.4    636.3   17        627.8      584.9    835.5       859.0o    745-7    3,025.1   22
total Public Infrastruc-
ture Expenditures     580.7      596.4     687.3      653.1   2,517.5            762.8   1,275.6   1,532.8    3,608.8  7,180.0
Transport as propor-
tion of Total (V       52.7       47.8      57.3       47.8       51,5            60.2      60.7       53.6       45.8      51.6
j Cash releases represent replenishment of the common fund account or issued treasury warrants either as direct payment to the creditor or depesit to the accont of a disbursing
officer of the implementing agency. Disbursement of cash expenditure represents actual payment to the creditor and is made from either or both the comun aecount and treasury
warrants.  Cash releases may be carried over from one fiscal year tolhe next before disbursement is made and hence is not exactly the sae as actual expenditure during the
fiscal year. However, because of some balancing effect of disbursement made against cash releases during previous years and because year-end balances of undisbursed funds
do not vary much in size, cash releases are approximately equal to actual expenditure.
J Represents expenditures from local resources in Pesos and foreign exchange reserves, includes commodity assistance.
3/   Represents expenditures from foreign borrowings, project loans, reparations and grants.
|   Converted at same exchange rates as are used by Infrastructure Operations Center; WY 1967-70: P4.0=US$l; FY 1971: P6.0-US$l; FY 1972-73: P6.7-TUS$1; FY 1973-74: P6.8-us$l.  From
FY 1975 to BY 1980: P7.5=U0$1.
2 - 1976 Figures covers the period from July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976.
- From 1977 to 1980 Fiscal Years cover the period from January to December each year.
Source:   National Economic and Development Authoritv and P anning ano lr 'eo' Development Office (DPWTC): Infrastructure Operatior Center "Implementation of the Infrastructure Programs",
various years and Physical Projective Plan    the F%:iioes -   Year Infrastructure Program - 1i76.
December 1976.



TABLE 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Highway Network, 1974
(Km)
Total             Paved
Category and type    Length    Concrete  Bituninous -    Gravel %   Earth   %
National
Expressway          47         47          -      100     -           -
Primary          8,0oo4     1,623       2, 297     49   3,762  -47   323    4
Secondary       14.866      1,195      3,653       33   8,142   55  1,876   13
Sub total 22,917       2.865      5,950       38  11,904   52  2,199   10
Local Roads:
Provincial      30,003        1410     3,511       13  16,1494   55  9,588   32
City             7,693        4142      2,078      33   3,008   39  2,165   28
Municipal       19,750        868       1,415      11   8,335   43  9,132   46
Other           18,769         52         880       5   8,095   43  9,742   52
Sub Total   76,215      1,772      7,884       13  35,932   47 30,627   40
Total      99,132      4,637     13,834       19  47,836   48 32,825   33
Road Density in 1974
Km/Km2              0.3
Km/l000 inhabitants 2.3
Source: Department of Public Highways, Project Execution Service,
Monitoring and Statistics Division.
December 1976.



TABLE 4
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Stalstics FY1966-75-
Year        Cars2/      Jeepneys3    Buses        Trucks       E r /-Total
1966       165,744      31,969      14,218       98,701       13,433      324,065
1967       209,199      35,339      12,028      105,483       21,608      383,657
1968       235,676      40,418      14,h02      114h,195      26,727      431)413
1969       261,968      48,874      14,215      123,99h       28,072      477,123
1970       268,260      43,262      13,506      152,664       30,530      488,322
1971       276,547      43,739      13,018      140,850       32,184      506,338
1972       301,992      h4,94o      15,870      152,413       42,593      557,808
1973       318,022      57,729      17,532      175,582       50,328      6141,292
1974       371,334      59,268      19,199      204,791      54,569       709,581
1975       392,464      57,639      19,085      216,024       56,816      742)028
Average Annual Change (%)
1966-1975       9.4         6.8         3.3          9.1         17.4          9.6
1966-1970      12.6         7.8           -         11.5         22.8         10.8
1970-1972       6.1         2.0         8.4           -          18.1          6.9
1972-1974      10.9        14.8        10.0         15.9         13*1         12.8
1974-1975       5.7        -2.8          -           5.5         4h0           4.6
Changing Composition (%)
1966         51          10          4            31         4             100
1975         50           8          3            30          8            100
Motor Vehicles Assembled in the Philippines
1971 - 1975.
Year          Passenger Cars        Commercial Vehicles              Totil
1971               9,4147                   11,v219                 20,666
1972              11,994                     9,522                  21 , 516
1973              16,737                    15,534                  32,271
1974              21,844                    22,303                  44,147
1975              27,497                    23,768                  51,625
1/ Excludes trailers with no power units
2/ Includes Jeeps
3/  Jeepneys and Jeeps converted for passenger transport
IT! EMV - Equivalent (4 wheels) Motor Vehicle for Motorcycles
(3 motorcycles = 1 EMV)
Source:  Land Transport Commission
December 1976.



TABILE 5
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, FY 1966-75
Gasoline               Diesel Fuel
Year               (million liters)         (million liters)
1966                     1450                       -
1967                     1771                     1402
1968                     1877                     1578
1969                     2205                     1629
1970-                    2280                     1919
1971                     2481                     1721
1972                     2710                     1902
1973                     2839                     2320
1974                     2570                     2181
1975                     2294                     1994
Average Annual Increase (%)
1966-73                  10.1                 9.8 4/
1973-75                 -11.0                -7.8%
I/ FY 1967--73
Source:  Department of Public IHighways.
December 1976.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures by Highways Works and Source of Funds, FY 1966-75
(Pesos Million)
Item              1966       1967      1968      1969       1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
Administration_/              29.7       22.3     32.3       41.0       55.0      52.5       70.2      105.6      179.4    284.4
Highway Special Funds      24.0       19.1     24.5       29.6      30.9 7-26                       ir1         01.0   lC2
Other Funds                 5.7        6.2      7.8       11.4       24.1      26.5       43.6       93.1       79.3    165.2
Maintenance                   84.2       73.0    127.0      125.7      104.0     121.6      155.6      216.1       209.1    428.5
Highway Special Funds      83.7      72.4    126.0       125.5     103.5      TE         1j55.6    1g3-0.8     T9        428.5
Other Funds                 0.5        0.6      1.0        0.2        0.5       0.3        -         85.3             -
Construc.2ion2/               66.5      172.7    192.1      180.4      346.3     215.7      303.9     473.1        608.5  1 339.5
Highway Special Fund      ; 32.2 103.1    103.3           88.5     147.7                 11 1.2                  66.3     94.5
General Funds              25.9       7.4      22.7       18.8     149.5      112.8      1178.7    321.8        463.5 1,018.5
Bond Funds                  7.7      60.8      64.6       70.2      45.8        3,0        1.1        1.2         -       -
Other Funds                 0.7        1.4      1.5        2.9       3.3       10.1        7.9       35.2        16.4       7.5
Foreign Sourees-4  -               .           z          -          z                       .                  63.2    219.0
TOTAL               180.4      271.0    351.4      347.1      505.3      389W8     529.7      754.8       997.0  2,052.4
1/   Includes loan amortization for FY 1966-75
2/ Includes construction of Buildings
/  Expenditures are for road improvement works only
17/ Exchange Rates used: FY 1974 US$1.00 = P 6.80
FY 1975  US$1.00 = P 7.00
Source:  Department of Public Highways
December 1976



PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Expenditures on Hi1hways by Road Systea-. FY 1966-75
(Pesos Million)
System                1966        1967        1968        1969        1970       1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
National Highways           111.7       195.6       244.6       238.2      373.4      275.5       381.8       634.3        882.2      1779.1
Provincial/City Roads        34.5        43.7        62.4       61.8         76.8      67.5        91.3        51.1         50.3       129.0
Municipal Roads              16.8        20.1       29.4         29.3        34.6      31.7        42.6         28.7        16.2        66.o
Loan AmortizatiOn            17.4        11.6        15.0        17.8       20.5       15,1        14.0         80.7        78.3        78.3
Total    180.4        271.0       351.4      347.1       505.3      389.8       529.7        794.8      .997.0      2052.4
1/ Expenditures of National Government only
Source: Department of Public Highways
December 1976.
7jm



PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, FY 1972-81
(million pesos)
I.  Routine Maintenance -/                    Actual Year                                           Planned Year
1972       1973       1974       197-5     1976       1977       1978        1979        1980        1981
National Roads            94.7       70.7      150.5      263.6      258.1      379.1      407.2      424.2        457.2       478.7
Provincial Roads          39.5       34.8       42.4      100.6      114.0      175.4      201.3      228.8        262.9       289.5
Municipality Roads        21.4       23.9       16.2       66.0       26.8       31.1       35.7       40.6         46.6        51.3
Barangay Roads             -          -          -          -         68.5      126.1      152.4      167.7        184.4       202.9
Sub-Total            155.6       129.4     209.1      430.2      467.4      711.7       796.6      861.3        951.1      1022.4
II. Special Maintenance
(Restoration) -2/
National Roads             -          -          7.0       37.3       24.4      114.5      161.3      154.9        141.0         67.3
Provincial Roads           -          - )
Municipal & City Roads   -            - )-       3.1       16.0       10.9       29.4       27.7       27,4          25.0        24.3
Barangay Roads             -          - )
Sub-Total               -          -         10.1       53.3       35.3                 189.0      182.3        166.0        91.6
III. Emergency Repairs
Calamity Fund              -         85.3       50.7       50.0       46.1      144.2      153.0      161.8        170.6       179.4
Total            155.6      214.7      269.9      548.8      548.8      999.8    1138.6    1205.4         1205.4       1293.4
1/ Financed from the Highway Special Fund (HSF) until 1975 when the Fund was abolished.
2/ Restoration expenditures are a portion of the Restoration, Betterment and Improvement funds (RBI) which are
leftover of the HSF after appropriations for routine maintenance have been made.  However, the RBI are considered as
capital expenditures subject to budgetary approval and are not released automatically as recurrent expenditures.
3/ 1976-81 estimates assume that routine maintenance requirement will increase at a growth rate of 4% p.a., same as the
network; that "special maintenance" will be about 30% of RBI portion of the HSF; and that the emergency expenditures
(Calamity Fund) will equal 10% of the estimated income of the HSF.
Source:  Department of Public Highways
December 1976.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJBCT
Highway User Charges FY 1966-75
(Pesos M1illion)
Item                     1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
1.   Fuel Oil Taxes 1/                  123.5   145.1   152.8   181.3   189.0   1          207.6   1        466.7   804
a.  RA-1435                         17.9    20.1    21.4    25.4    27.3    2.5    37
b.  RA-917                        105.6   125.0   131.4   155.9   161.7   170.0   177.4   159.5   440.2   776.1
2.   Motor Vehicle Fees                  63.5    68.5    81.6    85.2    96.7   101.8   109.9    98.9   145.4   15.7
a.  Motor Vehicle Registration    56.2    55.2    72.2    74.7    85.2   -7
b.  Licenses & Plates                3.7     4.3      4.4     4.5      4.8     5.8        NO BREAK DOWN
c.  Miscellaneous                    3.6     9.0      5.0     6.0      6.7     7.5
3.   Total                              187.0   213.6   234.4   266.5   285.7   300.3   317.5   284.7-  612.1   960.6
4.  Annual Increase (%)                   9.6    14.2      9.7    13.6      7.2      5.1     5.7    10.3   114.9    56.9
5.   Earmarked for Highway
Special Fund                    169.2   193.5   213.1   241.0   258.5   271.1   287.3   258.4   585.6   931.8
1/ Fuel oil taxes include taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel and lubricants
2/ Motor vehicle fees include registration fees, dresses' and conductors'
licences, fees on plates and miscellaneous, e.g. fines, penalties,
surchages. Detail of breakdown data not available for FY 1972-75.
3/ Books had been closed earlier and the remaining accruals were trans-
ferred to next fiscal year as reported by Board of Internal Revenue.
Source:   Department of Public Highways.
December 1976.



PHILIPPINKS
THIRD HIGQ8AY PROJ4CT
Highwav Desian Standards
Terrain                                                     Flat                                                    Rolling (Hilly)                                   Mowmtaioous
Class of Rodl1                      Minor Roadj1    2        3             5    Expresway  Minor RoadgaY       2      3     4        5   Ewerezsua    MEr  _d.-2/   2         3      4        i    xprDsNV        !
Design speed (km/h)                     60           60     80     80    100        120         40-50         50     60     70     90        100           30         40     50      60     70        100
Pavement width (i)                       6.0        6.1    6.7    7.0   2x7.3    2x7.3           6.0         6.1    6.7    7.0   2x7.3       2x7 3         5.5        5.5    6.0    6.7   2x7.0      2t7.0
Median width (m)                         -            -       -     -     4.n       12.0          -            -      -      -     4.0       12.0            -         -       -      -     2.0       4.0
Shoulder widtI (m)                       1.5        1.5    2.0    2.5    3.0         3.0        1.0-1.5       1.5    2.0    2.0    3.0       3.0            1.0       1.00   1.5    1.5    3.0        3.0
Right of Way (m)                        30          30      60     60     60         60           30          30     60     60     60        60           30          40     40      50     60        60
Stopping sight distance (m)             70           70    110    110    180        260           60         60      70     90    150        230           s0         50     60      70     90        190
Passing sight distance (m)             350          350    450    450    6003/      BODY-      275-300       300    400   400    525_/       700 1/       275        275    300    350    4503/       6003-/
Maximum superelevation (%)               8            8      8      8      8          8            8           8       8     B       8         8            8          8       8      8       8          8
Minimim horizontal radius (m)          125          125    240    240    400        750         50-90         90    200    200    350        550           25         50      80    125    180        400
Structural Design:  "Standard Specifications for Highfny Bridges" adopted by the American Association of State Highway Officials (MSHD).
Loading: HS 20-44 & HS 15-44
Pavement Design:    Based on an equivalent standard 8-ton single axle load.
1    Claeg I is jn4rnded to cover ahabUitatioa of an existing road of any class  such as improvement of pavement  reshaping of shoulders, repairs of drainage, etc.
2?   Stane  rds o   snor reads my    re   ed where terrain and other physical conaitions necessitate lower standards
3/   Only to be applied if constructed as an undivided highway in the initial stage.
Source:  Department of Public Highways.
December 1976.



TABLE 11
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Minor Roads Identified for Improvement
Length Improvement        Estimated Cost-
No.            Location              _()    Level l/   Pesos(Million) us$ (Million)_
Total     Local   Foreign   Total
PANAY
1. FR5026   Talanghaan-Inas           14     6.0 Gr          4.0B        0.28     0.28     0.56
2. FR5031   Passi-Wnifog              14     6.o BST         6.46        0.44     0.44     0.88
3. FR5032   Cabugao-TAyongan          10     6.0 Or           2.66       0.18     0.18     0.36
4. FR5042   Bantog-DmaraM              9     6.0 88T         3.02        0.20    t.20      0.40
5. FR5014  Janiuay-PotOten            16     6.o BST         4.75        0.33     0.33     0.66
6. FR5017  Gibalo-Cabuyagan          11      6.0 BST         3,34        0.22     0.22     0.44
Sub-total          74                    24.31       1.65     1.65     3.30
NEGROS
1.  PR2001   Talisay-Condepcion       11     6.0 BST          3.66      .0.25     0.25     0.50
2.  FR2003   Silay-Guimbalaon        11i    6.0 BST           3.55       0.24     0.24     0.48
3.  FR2004/1 Imbang-Patag             20     6.0 Gr           2.93       0.20     0.20     0.40
4.  FR4003   Sumay-Abuanan            12     6.0 Gr           2.03       0.14     0.14     0.28
5.  FR617  La Castellana-Isabela    16       6.0 BST          4.62       0.32     0.32     0.64
6. FR4017A Hinigaran-Aranda           18     6.0 BST          5.53       0.37     0.37     0.74
7.  FR4021   Cagulaan-San Isidro       4     6.0 Or           1.06  ..  0.07  -.OW         0.14
8.  FR4030  Himamayalan-Carabalan    10      6.o Gr           1.91       0.13 .    -L13    0.26
Sub-total         105                    25.29        1.72     1.72     3.44
MINDANAO
T.   i016   Aglayan-Miglamin           15     6.0 Gr          6.24        0.43     9.43     0.86
2.  FR8017   Aglayan-Basak            36     6.o Gr           8.09       0.55               1. 55    l.10
Sub-total          51                    14.33        0.98     0.98     1.96
TOTAL   230                    63.93       4. 3      4.35     8-70
1/ Gr = Gravel Road    BST = Bituminous Surface Treatment
At January 1977 prices; excludes R-O-W cost estimated to be about P 4.65 million (US$0.63
million)
Source: General Consultants
December 1976.



TABLE 12
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Road Maintenance Program: Workshops Construction and Improvement -
(Luzon Island)
New or             Total Cost
Region      Shop          Location            Existing    Pesos Mlllion      US$('OO0)
1         Base         Bauang              Existing           2.59            352
Area 1       Laoag               Existing           0.73            100
Area 2       Vigan               New                1.22            166
Area 3       Bontoc              New                1.22            166
Area 4       Baguio              New                1.22            166
Area 5       San Fernando        New                1.22            166
Area 6       Sta. Barbara        Existing           0.61             83
2.        Base          Solana -           New                2.34            3f8
Area 1       Bayombong           Existing           0.27            166
Area 2       n agan              New                1.22           166
Area 3       Tuguegarao          New                1.22            166
Area h       Tabuk               New                1.22            166
3.        Base          San Fernando       Existing           1.70            231
Area 1       Tarlac              Existing           0.61             83
Area 2       Iba                 Existing           0.54             73
Area 3       Cabanatuan          Existing           0.61             83
Area 4       Malolos             New                1.22            166
4A        Base         Taguig              Existing           3.19            434
Area 1       Lucena              Existing           0.31             42
Area 2       Quezon City         Existing           1.22            166
Area 3       Trece Martires      New                0.61             83
Area 4       Los Banos           Existing           0.92            125
Area 5       Batangas City       New                1.22           166
5         Base          Legaspi 2'         New                2.344           318
Area 1       Daet                Existing           0.31             42
Area 2       Naga   3            Existing           0.14             19
Area 3       Virac  -
Area 4       Ligao               New                1.22            166
Area 5       Sorsogan3,          Existing           0.31             42
Area 6       Masbate -
Total of Workshop Buildings:        31.55         4,291
1/ Workshop tools and machinery not included
2/ Not included is the main repair building to be Japanese financed
3/ Not included in project as they are located on other islands, although
administratively, they depend on regional offices on Luzon Island.
Source: Department of Public Highways
December 1976



TABLE 13
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program: Maintenance Equipment for Procurement
(Luzon Island)
Unit Cost        Total Cost
Description                         Number    (CIF Manila)    (CIF Manila)
US$              US$
Air Compressor 125 cfm                            20          8,500            170,000
Air Compressor 250 cfm                            15         13,000            195,000
Asphalt Plant, Mobile 10 tph                       5        105,300            506,500
Asphalt Distributor, 6000 liters                  11         32,400            356,400
Asphalt Kettle, 800 liters                        24          4,000             96,000
Chip Spreader                                     5           3,200             16,000
Asphalt Pre-Heat Plant, 600 liters                 6          7,900             47,400
Crusher, Rock 60 tph                              5         210,000          1,050,000
Crusher, Rock 10 tph                               5         52,500            268,500
Washing and Screening Plant, 100 tph               5        105,000            525,000
Surge Bin, 20 m3                                  5           6,300             31,500
Fuel Truck, 6000 liters                          10          25,000            250,,000
Water Truck, 6000 liters                         20          21,000            420,000
Water Tank Trailer, 2500 liters                   80          3,700            296,000
Pneumatic Tractor, 60 hp                         10          18,500            185,000
Water Pump, 3" x 3"                              80           1,600            128,000
Pneumatic Roller, 6-12 tons, self-propelled    30            23,000            690,000
Vibrating Roller, towed, 6-tons                    3         13,000             39,300
Vibrating Plate Compactor                         35          1,200             42,000
Sand Blasting Machine                            30           4,700            141,000
Paint Spray Outfit                                30          3,700            115,000
Traffic Line Marker                              40           3,600            144,000
Paving Breaker                                   45             600              21L000
Traffic Counters                                 LUU          1,500             150,000
Sub-total Maintenance Equipment       5,889.600
Spare Parts and Components (20%)                                             1,178,000
Handtools                                                                       132,000
Workshop Tools and Machinery                                                  2,400,000
(28 shops. 5 bases and 23 areas)
Total         9,600,000
Source: Department of Public Highways
December 1976



Table 14
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program: Physical Targets end Budget Requirements for the National Road Network, 1977-1981
Rood loength (km)
1977        1978         1979         1980         1981
I. Physical Targets
I/
a) Normal Road Maintenance
-unpaved roads                                         11,997      11,651       10,758       10,363       10,434
-bituminous roads                                      5,788        6,191        6,626        7,127        7,560
-concrete roads                                        4,733        4.971        5.408        6453         7,066
Total        22,518       22,813       23,692       24,365       25,060
b) Road Restoration Program
-ditches and shoulders                                 3,697        6,272        4,295        4,295         -
-unpaved roads                                         2,453        2,434        2,230        1,746        1,061
to be restored by DPH                                   (653)        (47)         (79)         (10)        (181)
to be restored by contractors                         (1,800)     (2,387)      (2,151)      (1,736)        (880)
-bituminous roads                                         194          192         190          190          169
Million Pesos
II. Budget Requirements
1/
a) Normal Road Maintenance
-labor                                                   56.7        58.3         59.7        60.2          61.4
-equipment                                             255.1        278.8        292.7       320.2         339.1
-materials                                              34.9         37.6         39.3        44.4          45.7
-maintenance engineering                                32.5         32.5         32.5        32.5          32.5
Sub-Total (a)   379.2        407.2        424.2       457.3         478.7
Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer (EMK)                     33,427       34,174      34,711      35,811        37,465
Basis Cost per ENK (pesos)                                 11,342       11,827      12,220      12,766        12,778
2/
b) Road Restoration Program
-ditches and shoulders                                    9.3        36.8         33.7        36.0           -
-unpaved roads                                          64.6         71.3         69.1        57.7          36.4
to be restored by DPH                                  (14.6)        (1.1)       (2.0)       (0.3)         (5.3)
to be restored by contractors                          (50.0)       (70.2)      (67.1)      (57.4)        (31.1)
-bituminous roads                                        11.1        11.8         12.5        13.4          12.7
Sub-Total (b)      85.0        119.9        15.3 i     107.1          49.1
Total Budget Requirement (a&b)  431.7         527.1        539.5       564.4         527.8
1/ Includes routine and periodic maintenance; figures assessed in direct costs as DPH workforce
will be used.
2/ Estimates assessed in direct costs; the financial costs of the works to be carried out by contractors
are estimated to be 30% higher to allow for profit and taxes.
Source: Department of Public Highways and Consultants' Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 15
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
List of Roads for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
National Roads
Location                            Length
(kn)
LUZON
1.     Baguio-Lubuagan                               208
2.     Dugo-San Vincente                              72
PANAY
3.     Iloilo-San Jose de Buena Vista                 88
NEGKIS
4.     Dwnaguete-Canlaon                             136
5.     Damaguete-Basay                                98
CEBU
6.     Cebu City-Santander                           134
LEYTE
7.     Palo-Carigara-Ormoc                            84
BOHOL
8.     Tagbilaran East                               139
9.     Tagbilaran North                              116
MINDANAO
10.     Midsayap-Dulawan-Marbel                        97
11.     Dipolog-Oroquieta                              83
12.     Davao-Surigao                                 130
TOTAL           1,385
Minor Roads
A total of about 800 km of high priority m-inor roads adjacent to
the above national roads will be identified for improvement.
Ferry Crossings
1.   Batangas City (Luzon) - Calapan (Mindoro)
2.   Maasim (Leyte) -  Talibon (Bohol)
3.   Talibon  (Bohol) - Cordova (Mactan)
4.   Toledo City (Cebu) - San Carlos City (Negros)
5.   Santander (Cebu) - Damaguete (Negros)
6.   Bacolod (Negros) - Iloilo(Panay)
7.   Tagbilaran (Bohol) - Santander (Cebu)
Source: Departmert of Dublic Highways.
December 1976.



PIIILIPPIEES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Advisors for Technical Assistance /
Months               Foreign Cost                   Local Uost
Salary      Travel and                    Local Travel
4-Relocation
US$          US$              US$           US$
1.  Bureau of Construction and M4aintenance
Advisor, Construction Division                           24            158,400        22,000           24,000      1,500
Advisor, Soils and Materials Division                    24            134,400        22,000           24,000      1,500
Advisor, Design Division                                 24            134,400        22,000           24,000      1,500
Advisor, M4aintenance Division                           24            158,400        22,000           24,000      1,500
Expert,  Restoration Works                                6             33,600        22,000            6,000        250
Expert,  Periodic Maintenance                             6             33,600        22,000            6,000        250
2. Bureau of Equipment
Advisor, Director's Office                               24            158,400        22,000           24,000      1,500
Exoert, Procurement                                       6             33,600        22,000            6,000        250
Expert, Spare Parts                                       6             33,600       22,000             6,000        250
3. Planning and Development Service
Advisor, Director's Office                               2.            110,400        22,000           24,000      1,500
168           988,000       22Q,000          168,000    10,000
TOTAL                          1,208,000                      178,000
17 Excludes Training Advisors, see Annex 2-
Source:  Department of Public Highways and Mission's Estimates
December 1976.



TABI.E 17
PHILIPPNES
TRIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estivetes
Pesos (Million)                 (US$ (Million)           Foreign
ITEM              Description                               Leath    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange
A. Construction and Improvement of Roads
I. National Roads
LUZON
l. Legaspi - Tabaco                                  25        7.3        7.3      14.6       1.0        1.0      2.0
PANAY
2. Iloilo - Jaro                                      9       19.        4*9       39.8       2.7        2.7      54
3. Zarraga - Passi                                   45       2.7       22.8      45.5       3.1        3.1      6.2
4. Jaro -  Barotac Viejo                             57       30.0       29.9      59.9       4.1        4.1      8.2
5  Passi-Dao 1/                                      35       19.9  - t9.9         39.8       2.7        2.7      5.4
NEGROS
6. Bacolod - Silay                                   14       14.9        5.0       29.9      2.1        2.0      4.1
7. Bacolod - Kabankalan                              91       60.0       7.9      119.9       8.1        8.2     16.3
CEBU
8. Cebu - Carmen South                               33       15.4       15.4      30.8       2.1        2.1      4.2
9. Naga - Toledo                                     35       28.9       28.9       57.8      4.0        4.0      8.0
MINDANAO
10. Puerto - Kibawe 2/                               156       15.8       75.8     151.6      10.3       10.3      20.6
Sub-Total                         s_oo     2963.B     294.8     489.6                40.i       80.4     50
II. Minor Roads (Table 11)
PANAY                                                  74.     12.1       t2.f       Z4.3      1.6        1.7       3.3
NEGROS                                                105       12.7      12.7       25.4       1.7       1.7        3.4
MINDANAO                                               51        7.1       7.1       14.2      1.0        1.0        2.0
Sub-Total                           j       31.9       32.0       63.9      4.3       k.4        8.7    50
Sub-Total (A)                326.7     3E6.8      653.5     7           4i2T 8J.l
B. Road Maintenance Program
1. Construction of Workshops (Table 12)                           22.0        9.6      31.6       3.0        1.3       4.3      30
2. Procurement of Maintenance Equipment with spares,
Hand tools,Workshop Tools and Machinery (Table 13)               7.3      70.6       77.9      1.0        9.6       10.6     90
3. Spare Parts and Components for existing equipment fleet          8.1      19.1       27.2      1.1        2.6        3.7     70
4. Road Restoration Works                                          95.2       58.8     154.0      13.0       8.0       21.0     38
Sub-Total (B)               132.6      158.1     290.7      18.1       21.5      39.6      54
6. Consulting Services
1. Construction Supervision of Roads in (A) above                 27.2       22.8      80.0      3.7        3.1       6.8      45
2. Feasibility Studies of about 1400 km of major roads,
about 800 km or minor roads and 7 ferry crossings,
and Detailed Engineering of those roads and ferry
crossings found feasible  (Table 15)  3/                       15.4      10.3       25.7       2.1       1.4        3,5     40
3. Technical Assistance to DPH (Table 16                           1.5       8.8       10.3       0.2       1.2        1,4     85
4. Training Advisors and equipment                                 0.7        3.0       3.7       0.1       0.4        0.5      80
5. Workshops Design and Engineering and Construction
Supervision                                                     3.0        -         3.0       0.4       -          0.4
Sub-Total (C)                47.8      44.9        2 .7      6.5       6.1       12.6     48
Sub-Total (A&B&C)           $07.1     529,9    1036.9      89.1       72.2      14t.3     51
D. Contingencies
1. Physical 107l on all items                                     50.7      52.9      103.6      6.9        7.2       14.1
2. Price  41(a) Equipment (8%)                                     1.3       7.2        8.5       0.2       1.0        1.2
(b) Civil Works (247)                               104.4       97.7     202.1      14.5      13.3       27.8
(c) Other (21%)                                       9.7       9.7       29.4       1.3        1.5       2,6
Sub-Total (D)               166&.      167.5     333.6      22.9      22.8       45.7      50
E. Right-of-Way                                                      67.6        -        67.6       9.2        -         9,2
TOTAL                                      740.8          I    143B.1    1.                    196.2     48
1/ Detailed engineering expeeted to be completed before negotiations. Costs include 3 low standard feeder roads totalling about 10 km.
2/ Costs include 5 low standard feeder roads totalling about 35 km.
3/  Includes retroactive financing for US$50,000 for experts to advise the Director, Planning and Development Services from July 1,1976.
4/ Price contingency based on the following inflation rates per annum for both foreign and local costs:
Equipment & Other   Civil Works
1977-79         8%                12%
1980            7%                10%
Source: Department of Public Highways, Consultants and Mission's Estimates.
December 1976.



TABLE 18
PHILIPPIlNES
TEIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year & Quarter                 Culative Disbursements
US$ (Millafion)
1976/1977
March 31, 1977                                        _
June 30, 1977                                        5.0
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                                  11.8
December 31, 1977                                   19.2
March 31, 1978                                      26.8
June 30, 1978                                       41.8
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                                  52.1
December 31, 1978                                   62.4
March 31, 1979                                      68.8
June 30, 1979                                       73.8
1979/1980
September 30, 1979                                  76.0
December 31, 1979                                   79.0
March 31, 1980                                      82.0
June 30, 1980                                       85.0
1980/1981'
September 30, 1980                                  88.0
December 31, 1980                                   91.0
March 31, 1981                                      95.0
Source: Government/ Mission's Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 19
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic Growth On Project Roads
(% p.a.)
Normal Growth 1976-19991'           Generated Traffic
Cars   Jeepneys   Buses   Trucks        1980 - 813/
Construction and Improvement
of National Roads
Luzon
Legaspi-Tabaco                          7.5        3         7        6             10
Panay
Iloilo-Jarc4/                          10          3        l32/      5              3
Zarraga-Passi                          11          3         9        5             15
Jaro-Barotac Viejo                     11          3         9        5             15
Passi-Dao                              10         2          9        6             20
Negros
Bacolod-Silay                           9          2         6        4.5           10
Bacolod-Pontevedra                      9          2         6        4.5           10
Pontevedra-Kabankalan                   9          2         6        4.5           10
Cebu
Cebu-Carmen                             9          2.5       7        5.5           10
Naga-Toledo                             8          3.5        7.5     6.5           15
Mindanao
Puerto-Impasugong                      10                    9        6             15
impasugcng-Aglayan                     10          h         9        6             15
Aglayan-Kibawe                         10          4         9        6             15
Reconstruction of Minor Roads
Panay (6 Sections)                     11          3         9        5             15
Negros (8 Sections)                     9          2         6        4.5           15
Mindanao (z Sections)                  10          4          9       6             15
1/  Normal Growth 1976-1999; tapering of growth is not deemed necessary except
possibly for cars where rates are high, but are applied on a low base.
2/ Anticipates replaeement of urban jeepneys by buses.
3/  A two year period has been selected to apply the effect of traffic generation
to savings in transport costs although a somewhat longer period might have
been applied to show a smoother effect.
4/ Normal growth 1980-1990
Source: Consultants' Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 20
PKILI?CINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Volumes on Pro4ect Rpads
Average Annual 8aily Traffic              Average Estimated
1976                   Forecast                     r          p.a.)
Road Length (km)                     Weighted
Existing      NeV        Range        Average    1980    1989    1999    1976-80             1980-99
I. Construction and Improvement
of National Roads
Luzon
Legaspi-Tabaco                            27         25       1120-1800       1570       2180    4110    7740         8.5              6.9
Panay
Iloilo-Jaro                                -          9           -             -        7890   16310   36530           -              8.4
Zarraga-Passi                             42         45 1/    160-760          480        720    1560    3540         10.7             8.7
Jaro-Barotac Viejo                        58         57        275-2400       1020       15X0    3330    7420         10.3             8.7
P'ssi-Dao                                 45         34        260-420         -          40       860    1910        6.3              8.3
Bacolod-Silay                             14         14          5900         5900       8350   16460   33550          9.1             7.6
Bacolod-Pontevedra                        43         42       1040-4550       3080       4370    8670   17780          9.1             7.7
Pontevedra-Kabankalan                     49         49       1020-2000       1700       2390    4550    8960          8.9             7.2
Cebu
Cebu-Carmen                               33         33       1400-4250       2380       3290    6300   12440          8.4             7.2
Naga-Toledo                               40         35        280-1100        810       1220    2460    4790         10.8             7.5
Mindanao
Puerto-Impasugong                         54         52        750-1300        880       1320    2790    5870         10.7             8.2
Impasugong-Aglayan                        38         33       560-830          800       1210    2570    5390        10.9              8.2
Aglayan-Kibawe                            63         63          480           480        710    1590    3470         10.3             8.7
II. Reconstruction of Minor Roads
Panay
Talanghauan-Inas                          2/         14          115           115        160      310      590        8.6             7.1
Passi-Calinog                                        14          370           370        550    1200    2680         10.4             8.7
Cabugao-Tayongan                                     10          105           105        145      250      430        8.4             5.9
Bantog-Dumarao                                        9          225           225        330      660    1400       10.0              7.9
Janiuay-Pototan                                      16          190           190        270      530    1050         9.2             7.4
Gibolo-Cabuyagan                                     11          130           130        185      360      710        9.2             7.3
Negros
Talisay-Concepcion                                   11          245           245        330      600    1080         7.7             6.4
Silay-Gulmbalaon                                     14          175           175        250      480     920         9.3             7.1
Imbang-Patag                                         20          280           280        390      720    1320        8.6              6.6
Sumag-Abuanan                                        12          190           190        270      530    1030         9.2             7.3
La Castellana-Isabela                                16          265           265        370      680    1270         8.7             6.7
Hinigaran-Aranda                                     18          250           250        360      670    1250         9.5             6.8
Cagulaan-San Isidro                                   4          140           140        200      350      640        9.3             6.3
Himamaylan-Carabalan                                 10          215           215        300      510      870        8.7             5.8
Mindanao
Aglayan-Miglamin                                     15          230           230        340      720    1520        10.3             8.2
Aglayan-Basak                                        38          180           180        270      590    1220        10.7             8.2
1/  Distance on new alignment is reduced to 40 km, but a 5 km section of old alignment will be improved too.
2/ There is no distance saving for minor roads since improvement stay on same alignment.
Source: Consultant's Estimates
December 1976.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs And Savings on Project National Roads, 1980
(Pesos per km, excluding Taxes)
Cars                             Jeepneys                                Buses                                Trucks
Existing   Improved   Saving        Existing   Improved   Saving          Existing   Improved   Saving           Existing   Improved   Saving
Road       Road     Per km   %      Road        Road     per  sgCD   % oad                     per km    %       Road        Road     per km    %
Excluding Passengers' Time Savings
Luzon
Legaspi-Tabaco                              0.38      0.29      0.09   24      0.38        0.27      0.11   29       1.05       0.73       0.32    30       1.32        0.94      0.38    29
Panay
Iloilo-Jaro                                 0.39      0.29       0.10   26     0.41        0.28      0.13   32       1.07        0.67       0.40    37       1.38       0.88       0.50    36
Zarraga-Passi                               0.41      0.28       0.13   32     0.42        0.27      0.15   36       1.15        0.68      0.47    41       1.44        0.88      0.56    39
Jaro-Barotac Viejo                          0.40      0.28       0.12   30     0.41        0.27      0.14   34       1.11       0.68       0.43    39       1.40        0.88      0.52    37
Passi-Dao                                  0.46       0.27      0.19   41      0,45       0.25       0.20   44       1.50       0.62       0.68    52       1.69        0.88      0.81    48
Negros
Bacolod-Silay                               0.36      0.29       0.07   19     0.35        0.27      0.08   23       0.92        0.68      0.24    26       1.17        0.88       0.29    25
Bacolod-Postevedra                          0.35      0.29       0.06   17      0.34       0.26      0.08   24       0.89        0.68      0.21    24        1.14       0.89       0.25    22
Pontevedra-Kabankalan                       0.37      0.29       0.08   22     0.36        0.28      0.08   22       0.98        0.71      0.27    28        1.23       0.92       0.31    25
Cebu
Cebu-Carmen                                 0.34      0.29       0.05   15      0.34       0.27      0.07   21       0.89        0.71       0.18    20       1.13       0.90       0.23    20
Naga-Toledo                                 0.49      0.31       0.18   37      0.49       0.30      0.19   39       1.61        0.90       0.71    44       1.95       1.12       0.83    43
Mindanao
Puerto-Impasugong                           0.44      0.32       0.12   27      0.43       0.30      0.13   30       1.53        0.99       0.54    35       1.83       1.25       0.58    32
Impasugong-Aglayan                          0.45      0.31       0.14   31      0.44       0.29      0.15   34       1.35        0.87       0.48    36       1.66       1.08       0.58    35
Aglayan-Kibawe                              0.46      0.28       0.18   39      o.46       0.27       0.19   41       1.35       0.68       0.67    50       1.68       0.88       0.80    48
Including Passengers' Time Savings
Luzon
Legaspi-Tabaco                              0.53      0.39       0.14   26      0.47       0.33      0.14   30       1.35        0.93       0.42    31       1.32       0.94       0.38    29
Panay
Iloilo-Jaro                                 0.52      0.35       0.17   33     0.60        0.37      0.23   38       1.52        0.89       0.63    41       1.38        0.88      0.50    36
Zarraga-Passi                               0.60      0.38       0.22   37      0.53       0.33      0.20   38       1.51        0.87       0.64    42       1.44       0.88       0.56    39
Jaro-Barotac Viejo                          0.59      0.38       0.21   36      0.52       0.32       0.20   38      1.48        0.87       0.61    41       1.40       0.88       0.52    37
Passi-Dao                                  0.63       0.35      0.28   44      0.67        0.3S      0.32   48       1.88        0.88       1.00    53       1.69       0.8       0.81    48
Negros
Bacolod-Silsy                               0.49      0.38       0.11   22      0.43       0,32       0.11   26       1.19       0.87       0.32    27       1.17        0.88      0.29    25
Bacol.d-Pontevedra                          0.48      0.38       0.10   21      0.42       0.31       0.11   26       1.16       0.87       0.29    25       1.14        0.89      0.25    22
Pontevedra-Kabankalan                       0.53      0.39       0.14   26      0.45       0.34       0.11   24       1.30       0.92       0.38    29       1.23        0.92      0.31    25
Cebu
Cebu-Carman                                 0.48      0.39       0.09   19      0.42       0.33       0.09   21       1.16       0.91       0.25    22       1.13        0.90       0.23    20
Naga-Toledo                                 0.70      0.43       0.27   39      0.62       0.36       0.26   42       2.15        1.17      0.98    46       1.95        1.12       0.83    43
Mindanao
Puerto-Impasugong                           0.62      0.43       0.19   31      0.53       0.37       0.16   30       1.98       1.25       0.73    37       1.83        1.25       0.58    32    -
Impasugong-Aglayan                          0.63      0.42       0.21   33      0.54       0.34       0.20   37       1.77        1.12      0.65    37       1.66        1.08       0.58    35
Aglayan-Kibave                              0.65      0.38       0.27   42      0.57       0.32       0.25   44       1.77       0.89       0.88    50       1.68        0.88       0.80    48
Source: Consultant's Eatimatei
December 1976.



2
PR11LIP1IN] S
THIRD H]CMWAY PROIrCT
Estircated leFicle _Ojeratg C_otta and Savin s on Pro1ect Mnor Roads, 198C
(Pesos  per km. excluding raxes)
Cara                         Jeepneys                          Buses                          Trucks
Existing  Improved  Saving     Existing  Improved  Saving      Eicsting  Improved Saving        Existing  Improved  Saving
Road     Road _    er km       Road      Road    per kns      fioad      Road   Mar km  j       Road      Road    per im  J
kxclucvn_g Passengerb' Time _ ings
P-
Talanghauan-Inas     0.68      0.34     0.34   50  0.63       031       0.32    51  1.58       0.79     0.79   50   2.01       1.00     1.o,    5c
Passi-Cslinog        0 45      0.27     0.18   40  0.46       0.27      0  9   41  1.28        0.67     0.61   48   1.61       0 87     0.74    4-
Cabugao-Tayongan     0.68      0 34    0.34   50  0.63        0.31      0.32    51  -           -        -      -    2.01      1.00     1.01    5C
Bantog-Dumarso       0.62      0 29    0.33   53  0.58        0.27      0.34    53  1.46       0.67     0.79   54   1.76       0.82     0.94    52
Janiuay-Pototan      0.51      0.29     0 22  43   0.48       0.27      0.21    44  -           -        -      -    1.58      0 82     0.76    4e
Gibolo-Cabu.gan      0.68      0.34    0.34   50  0.63        0.31      0.32   51  1.58        0.79     0.79   50   2.01       1.00     1 01    50
Negros
TalLsay-Concepcion    0.45     0 29    0.16   36  o 42        0 27      0.15    36  1.07       0.67     0,,40  37   1.47       0.82     0 65    41
Silay-Guimbalaon     0.59      0 29    0.30   51  0.55        0.27      0.28    51  1.3e       0.67     0.71   51   1.87       0.82     1.05    56
TIbbang-Patag        0.68      0.34     0 34  50  0.63        0 31      0.32    51  1."8       0.79    0.79   50   2.01       1. O     1.01    sc
Sumag-Abuwuan        0.45      0 33    0 12  27  0.42         0 30      0.12    29  -           -        -      -   1.48       1.00     o 48   .-'
La Castellana-Isabela 0.52     0.29    0.23   44  0.49        0.27      0.22    45  1.21       0.67     0.54  45   1.53       0.82      0.71    46
Hinagarar-Aranda      0.52     0.29    0-23   44  0.49        0.27      0.22    45  1.21       o 67    0.54  45   1 67         0 82     o.eS    5:
Cagul.aan-Sn Isidro   0.68     0.33     0.35   51  0.63       0.30      0.33    52  -           _        _          2.01      1.00     1.01    50
Ellamaylan-Csrsbalan  0.68     0.33     0-35   51  0.63       0.33      0.33    52  -                                     201  1 00    1.01    SC
1hinidanao
Aglsyay-Mglamin       0.53     0.33     0.20   38  0.49       o 30      0.19   39  1.23        0.77     0.46   37   1 62      0.97     0.65    4C
Aglayan-Bksak        0.54      0.34     0.20   37  0.51       0.31      0.20   39  1.27        0.79     0.48   38   1.58       1 .O     o.58    37
1cludJin  P.ssengets' Tirne Savimgs
Pansv
Talanghauan-Inas        0.90    0.45    0.45   50  0.76       0.38     0.38   50   2.07       1.03     1.04   50   2.01        1.O0     1.01   5G
Passa-Calinog           0.61    0.36    0.25   41   0.55      0.32     0.23   42    1.68      0.88     0.80   48    1 61       0.87     0 74   46
Cabugao-Tayongan        0.90    0.45   0.45   50  0.76        0.38     0.38   50    -          -        -    -      2 01       1.00    1.01    50
Bantog-Dumarao          0.83     0.38    0.45   54  0.70      0-32     0.38   54    1.9,      0.88     1.03   54   1.76        0 82     0.94    53
Ja-auuy-Pototan         0 68    0.38    0.30  44  0.57        0.32     0.25   44    -          -        -     -     1.58       0.82     0.76    49
Gibolo-Cabuyagan       0.90    0.45    0 45   50  0 76        0.38     0.38   50   2.07       1.03     1.04   50   2.01        1.00     I 01    50
) egrosB
Blahsay-Concepcion      0.61    0.38    0 23  38   0 51       0.32     0.19   37    1.40      0.88     0.52   37    1.47       0 82     0.65    4
Silay-Gulmbelaon       0.79     0.38    0 41   52  0 66       0.32     0.34   51   1.81       0 88     0.93   51    1.87       0.82     1.05    56
Imbang-Patag           0.90     0 45   0 45   50  0.76        0.38     0.38   50   2 07       1.03     1.04   50   2.01        1.00    1.01   5G
Sumag-Abuanan          0.61     0.44    0 17  28  0.51        0.37     0.14   27    -          -        -    -      1.48       1.00     0.48    33
La Castellana-Isabela   0.69    0.38    0.31   45  0.58       0.32     0.26   45    1.58      0 88    0.70   44    1.53        0.82     0.71    46
Hinigaran-Aranda        0.69    0 38    0.31   45  0.58       0.32    0.26   45    1.58       0 88    0 70  44    1.67         0.82     0.85    51
Cagulaan-San Isidro    0.90     0.44    0.46   51  0.76       0.37     0.39   51    -          -        -     -     2.01       1.00     1.01    50
Himamaylan-Carabalan    0.90    0 44   0.46   51   0.76       0.37     0.39   51    -          -        -    -      2.01       1.00     1.01    50
irndanao
Aglayan-Miglagin       0.70     0.44    0 26  37   0.60       0.37     0.23   38    1.61      1.01    0.60   37    1.62        0.97     0.65    40
Aglyaan-Basak          0.72     0.45    0.27   38  0 62       0 38     0.24   39    1.67      1.03     o.64  38    1.58        1.00     0.58    37
Source   Consultant'^ Fstimates
Pecember 1976



TABLE 23
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
1. Luzon: Legaspi-Tabaco
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                       OperatinR CostsSavings               Net Benefits
Year      and SuRpervision         Costs       Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (1)-(2)=(3)               (4)        (5)       (4)-(3)=(6)   (5)-(3)=(7)
1976           740                                  740                                          -740            -74u
1977         2,250                                2,250                                        -2,250         -2,250
1978        5,280                                 5,280                                        -5,280         -5,280
1979        6,620                                 6,620                                        -6,620         -6,620
1980           670                    -10           680            4,405          5,638         3,725          4,958
1981                                  -10            10            4,909          6,289         4,899           6,279
1982                                  -10            10            5,224          6,692         5,214          6,682
1983                                  -10            10            5,559          7,152         5,549           7,122
1984                                2,402         -2,402           5,919          7,598         8,321          10,000
1985                                  -10             10           6,302          8,095          6,292          8,085
1986                                  -10             10           6,711          8,626         6,701           8,616
1987                                  -10             10           7,147          9,193         7,137           9,183
1988                                  -10             10           7,612          9,798         7,602           9,788
1989                                 -120            120           8,109         10,443         7,989          10,323
1990                                  -10             10           8,639         11,134         8,629          11,124
1991                                  -10             10           9,204         11,871         9,194          11,861
1992                                  -10             10           9,808         12,659         9,798          12,649
1993                                  -10             10          10,452         13,501        10,442          13,491
1994                                2,402         -2,402          11,141         14,401         13,543         16,803
1995                                  -10             10          11,876         15,362        11,866          15,352
1996                                  -10             10          12,660         16,389        12,650          16,379
1997                                  -10             10          13,498         17,489         13,488         17,479
1998                                  -10      X      10          14,392         19,660        14,382          18,650
1999                                  -10             10          15,347         19,913        15,337          19,903
ER  =   30Z            36%
Note: The amount of maintenance savings shown in 1984 and 1994 represent the avoidance of
major overlaying with the project road compared with the "with-out project" situation.
Source: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
December 1976



TABLE 23
Page 2 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economric Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
2.  Panay:Iloilo-Jaro
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                        Operating Cost Savings           Net Benefits
Year      and Supervision         Costs        Total1 Coots       Without Time With Time    Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (I)-(2)=(3)               (4)        (5)       (4)-(3)-(6)   (5)-(3)-(7)
1976           1,687                               1,687                                          -1,687         -1,687
1977           5,273                               5,273                                          -5,273         -5,273
1978          11,810                              11,810                                         -11,810        -11,810
1979          14,868                              14,868                                          -14,868       -14,868
1980           1,512                -36            1,548              4,516        9,217            2,968         7,669
1981                                -36               36              4,973       10,377            4,937        10,341
1982                                -36               36              5,474       11,677            5,438        11,641
1983                                -36               36              6,029       13,139            5,993        13,103
1984                                -36               36              6,638       14,782            6,602        14,746
1985                                -36               36              7,308       16,628            7,272        16,592
1986                                -36               36              8,047       18,700            8,011        18,664
1987                                -36               36              8,859       21,027            8,823        20,991
1988                                -36               36              9,753       23,639            9,717        23,603
1989                                -36               36             11,071       26,803           11,035        26,767
1990                              -1026             1026             11,408       27,980           10,382        26,954
1991                                -36               36              11,714      29,127           11,678        29,091
1992                                -36               36             11,980       30,229           11,944        30,193
1993                                -36               36              12,194       31,263          12,158        31,227
1994                                -36               36             12,347       32,207           12,311       32,171
1995                                -36               36             12,424       33,030           12,388       32,994
1996                                -36               36             12,409       33,701           12,373        33,665
1997                                -36               36             12,287       34,179           12,251        34,143
1998                                -36               36             12,035       34,421           11,999        34,385
1999                                -36               36             10,392       33,491           10,356        33,455
ER: 17%    ER: 27Z
Note: The amount of maintenance cost shown in 1990 represents the additional cost for normal
overlay after 10 years of opening on the newly constructed road.
Source: Consultant's and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 3 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
3. Panay: Zarraga-Passi
Costs                                                          Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                        Operating Cost Savings                Net Benefits
Year      and Supervision           Costs       Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                 (2)        (l)-(2)=(3)               (4)          (5)      (4)-(3)=(6)    (5)-(3)=(7)
1976         4,590                                4,590                                          -4,590           -4,590
1977         9,050                                9,050                                          4,O50            -9,050
1978        15,430                               15,430                                         -15,430          -15,430
1979       19,370                                19,370                                         -19,370          -19,370
1980         1,970                   1,247          723              6,366        7,330           5,643            6,607
1981                                 1,247        -1,247             7,243        8,371          8,490            9,737
1982                                 1,247        -1,247            7,706         8,940          8,953           10,2G0
1983                                 1,247        -1,247            8,205         9,555          9,452           10,699
1984                                 1,079        -1,079            9,741        10,219          9,820           10,899
1985                                 1,247        -1,247            9,317        10,937         10,564           11,811
1986                                 1,247        -1,247            9,937        11,712         11,184           12,431
1987                                 1,247        -1,247           10,603        12,551         11,850           13,097
1988                                 1,247        -1,247           11,323        13,458         12,570           13,817
1989                                 1,079        -1,079           12,098        14,443         13,177           14,256
1990                                 1,247        -1,247           12,935        15,509         14,182           15,429
1991                                 1,247        -1,247           13,838        16,645         15,085           16,332
1992                                 1,247        -1,247           14,813        17,919         16,060           17,307
1993                                 1,247        -1,247           15,868        19,281         17,115          18,362
1994                                 1,079        -1,079           17,009        20,761         18,088          19,167
1995                                 1,247        -1,247           18,244        22,371         19,491          20,738
1996                                 1,247        -1,247           19,582        24,121         20,829          22,076
1997                                 1,247        -1,247           21,030        26,027         22,277          23,524
1998                                 1,247        -1,247           22,602        28,103         23,849          25,096
1999                                 1,247        -1,247           24,308        30,365         25,555          31,612
ER =   18%              19%
Note:  The amount of maintenance savings shown over the 1980-1999 period represent the substantial reduction
in maintenance cost made possible with the reconstructed road compared to the "with-out project" situation.
Source: Consultants' and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 4 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
4. Panay: Jaro-Barotac Viejo
Costs                                                      Benefits
Construction,       Savings in
Right-of-Way        Maintenance                     Operating Cost Savings             Net Benefits
Year      and Supervision        Costs      Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                 (2)      (l)-(2)=(3)             (4)         (5)      (4)-(3)=(6)   (5)-(3)=(7)
1976        5,710                             5,710                                       -5,710        -5,710
1977       11,030                            11,030                                      -11,030       -11,030
1978       18,400                            18,400                                      -18,400       -18,400
1979       23,100                            23,100                                      -23,100       -23,100
1980        2,350                 1,190       1,160             6,152       7,668          4,992          6,508
1981                              1,190      -1,190             6,992       8,749          8,182         9,939
1982                              1,190      -1,190             7,432       9,340          8,622        10,530
1983                              1,190      -1,190             7,906       9,980          9.096        11,170
1984                              1,569      -1,569             8,417      10,671          9,986         12,240
1985                              1,190      -1,190             8,967      11,420         10,157        12,610
1986                              1,190      -1,190             9,559      12,230         10,749        13,420
1987                              1,190      -1,190            10,197      13,110         11,387         14,300
1988                              1,190      -1,190            10,997      14,065         12,077         15,255
1989                              1,569      -1,569            11,632      15,102         13,201        16,671
1990                              1,190      -1,190            12,438      16,228         13,628         17,418
1991                              1,190      -1,190            13,310      17,451         14,500         18,641
1992                              1,190      -1,190            14,253      18,784         15,443         19,974
1993                              1,190      -1,190            15,275      20,234         16,465         21,424
1994                              1,569      -1,569            16,383      21,814         17,952         23,383
1995                              1,190      -1,190            17,584      23,538         18,774         24,728
1996                              1,190      -1,190            18,888      25,417         20,078         26,607
1997                              1,190      -1,190            20,303      27,469         21,493         28,659
1998                              1,190      -1,190            21,842      29,709         23,032         30,899
1999                              1,190      -1,190            23,515      32,157         24,705         33,347
ER =    15%           18%
Sources: Consultants and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 5 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
5. Panay: Passi-Dao1/
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                       Operating Cost Savings               Net Benefits
Year        and Supervision        Costs        Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (l)-(2)=(3)               (4)        (5)       (4)-(3)=(6)   (5)-(3)=(7)
1976            1,720                              1,720                                           -1,720         -1,720
1977            5,400                              5,400                                           -5,400         -5,400
1978           12,070                             12,070                                          -12,070        -12,070
1979           15,180                             15,180                                          -15,180        -15,180
1980            1,560                 44           1,516               6,582         7,651          5,066          6,135
1981                                  44             -44               7,083         8,258          7,127          8,302
1982                                  44             -44               7,622         8,908          7.666          8,952
1983                                  84             -84               8,203         9,617          8,287          9,701
1984                                  84             -84               8,827        10,379          8,911         10,463
1985                                -845             845               9,500        11,204          8,655         10,359
1986                                  62             -62              10,222        12,095         10,284         12,157
1987                                  62             -62              10,998        13,056         11,060         13,118
1988                                  62             -62              11,833        14,095         11,895         14,157
1989                                  62              -62             12,748        15,235         12,810         15,297
1990                               -4,351          4,351              13,696        16,409          9,345         12,058
1991                                  120           -120              14,711        17,672         14,831         17,792
1992                                   120           -120             15,804        19,037         15,924         19,157
1993                                   120           -120             16,977        20,505         17,097         20,625
1994                                  160            -160             18,238        22,093         18,398         22,253
1995                                    56            -56             19,593        23,802         19,649         23,858
1996                                   160           -160             21,048        25,645         21,208         25,805
1997                                   160           -160             22,611        27,632         22,771          27,792
1998                                   160           -160             24,290        29,776         24,450          29,936
1999                                   160           -160             26,139        32,127         26,299          32,287
ER: 21%     ER:24%
1/  Includes 3 adjacent low standard feeder roads totalling about 10 kms.
Sources: Consultants' and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 6 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
6. Negros: Bacolod-Silay
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenace                         Operating Cost Savings               Net Benefits
Year      and Supervision         Costs        Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (l)-(2)-(3)               (4)         (5)      (4)-(3)=(6)   (5)-(3)=(7)
1976        4,700                                 4,700                                         -4,700         -4,700
1977        8,140                                 8,140                                         -8,140         -3,140
1978       11,990                                11,990                                        -11,990        -11,990
1979       15,040                                15,040                                        -15,040        -15,040
1980        1,530                   -             1,530             6,224          7,560         4,694          6,030
1981                                -               -               6,886          8,392         6,886          8,392
1982                                -               -               7,274          8,898         7,274          8,898
1983                                -               -               7,688          9,438         7,688          9,438
1984                                -               -               8,128         10,014         8,128         10,014
1985                                -               -               8,598         10,630         8,598         10,630
1986                                -               -               9,097         11,289         9,097         11,289
1987                                -               -               9,629         11,996         9,629         11,996
1988                                -               -              10,197         12,751        10,197         12,751
1989                                -               -              10,801         13,560        10,801         13,560
1990                                -                -             11,444         14,436        11,444         14,436
1991                                -               -              12,132         15,352        12,132         15,352
1992                                -               -              12,867         16,346        12,867         16,346
1993                                -               -              13,650         17,412        13,650         17,412
1994                                -               -              14,487         18,556        14,487         18,556
1995                                -               -              15,382         19,784        15,382         19,784
1996                                -               -              16,295         21,057        16,295         21,057
1997                                -               _              17,317         22,471        17,317         22,471
1998                                -               -              18,411         23,989        18,411         23,989
1999                                -                -             19,581         25,620        19,5K1         25,620
ER =    17;.           20%
Sources:  Consultants'and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 7 of 10U
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
7.   Negros:  Bacolod-Kabankalan -
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                        Operating Cost Savings                Net Benefits
Year     and Supervision          Costs       Total Costs         Without Time   With Time    Without Time   With Time
(1)                 (2)        (1)-(2)=(3)             (4)            (5)         (4)-(3)=(6)     (5)-(3Y-7
1976         12,290                -              12,290              -               -             -12,290      -12,290
1977         22,660                -              22,660              -               -             -22,660      -22,' 6
1978         36,090                -              36,090              -               -             -36,090      -36,090
1979         45,290                 -             45,290               -              -             -45,290       -45,290
1980          4,600               125              4,475            19,416           23,562          14,941        19,087
1981            -                 125                125            21,485           26,157          21,610        26,282
1982            -                 125                125            22,693           27,728          22,818        27,853
1983            -                 125                125            23,980           29,403          24,105        29,528
1984            -               2,864              2,864            25,350           31,194          28,214        24,058
1985            -                 125                125            26,801           33,105          26,926        33,230
1986            -                 125                125            28,355           35,146          28,480        35,271
1987            -                 125                125            30,005           37,328          30,130        37,453
1988            -                 125                125            31,761           39,662          31,886        39787
1989            -              -7,091             -7,091            33,634           42,157          26,543        35,066
1990            -                  125              -125            35,629           44,828          35,754        44,953
1991            -                 125               -125            37,756           47,685          37,881        47,810
1992            -                 125               -125            40,025           50,749          40,150        50,874
1993            -                  125              -125            42,446           54,029          42,571        54,154
1994            -               2,864             -2,864            45,027           57,542          47,891        60,406
1995            -                 125               -125            47,785           61,311          47,910        61,436
1996            -                  125              -125            50,729           65,350           50,854       65,475
1997            -                 125               -125             53,876          69,684           54,001       69,809
1998            -                 125               -125            57,241           74,336           57,366       74,461
1999            -                 125               -125             60,838          79,328           60,963       79,453
ER =   19%            22%
1/ Excludes Section 404
Sources: Consultantg'and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 8 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
8. Cebu: Cebu-Carmen
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                       0perating Cost Savings               Net Benefits
Year      and Supervision          Costs       Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (1)-(2)=(3)              (4)         (5)       (4)-(3)=(6)    (5)-(3)=(7)
1976        2,080                                 2,080                                       -2,080          -2,080
1977        5,770                                 4,770                                       -4,770          -4,770
1978        9,390                                 9,390                                       -9,390          -9,390
1979       11,790                                11,790                                      -11,790         -11,790
1980        1,200                    37           1,163            3,840          4,965        2,677           3,802
1981                                 37             -37            4,245          5,517        4,282           5,554
1982                                 37             -37            4,505          5,854        4,542           5,891
1983                                 37             -37            4,770          6,216        4,807           6,253
1984                              2,156          -2,156            5,051          6,802        7,207           8,958
1985                                 37             -37            5,352          7,016        5,389           7,053
1986                                 37             -37            5,673          7,460        5,710            7,497
1987                                 37             -37            6,014          7,935        6,051            7,972
1988                                 37             -37            6,380          8,445        6,417            8,482
1989                             -1,474           1,474            6,771          8,990        5,297           7,516
1990                                 37             -37            7,189          9,577        7,226           9,614
1991                                 37             -37            7,635         10,205        7,672          10,242
1992                                 37             -37            8,110         10,879        8,147          10,916
1993                                 37             -37            8,623         11,602        8,660          11,639
1994                              2,156          -2,156            9,169         12,378       11,325          13,934
1995                                 37             -37            9,754         13,214        9,79]          13,251
1996                                 37             -37           10,381         14,112       10,418           14,149
1997                                 37             -37           11,050         15,077       11,08,           15,114
1998                                 37             -37           11,767         16,114       11,804          16,151
1999                                 37             -37           12,537         17,229       12,574           17,266
ER =    162            20%
Sources: Consultants and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
Page 9 of 10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
9. Cebu: Naga-Toledo
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Mainttenance                      Operating Cost Savings               Net Benefits
Year        and Supervision         Costs       Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (1)-(2)=~(3)             (4)         (5)       (4)-(3)=(6)   (5)-(3)=(7)
1976          2,680                               2,680                                         -2,680         -2,680
1977          7,330                               7,330                                         -7,330         -7,330
1978         16,270                              16,270                                        -16,270        -16,270
1979         20,410                              20,410                                        -20,410        -20,410
1980          2,070                3,030            960             6,647           7,984         5,687          7,024
1981                               3,030         -3,030             7,588          9,122        10,618          12,152
1982                               3,030         -3,u3(             8,099          9,743        11,129          12,773
1983                               3,030         -3,030             8,643         10,407        11,673          13,437
1984                               3,226         -3,226             9,227         11,117        12,453          14,343
1985                               3,030         -3,030             9,849         11,875        12,879          14,905
1986                               3,030         -3,030            10,513         12,685        13,543          15,715
1987                               3,030         -3,030            11,224         13,553        14,254          16,583
1988                               3,030         -3,030            11,983         14,481        15,013          17,511
1989                               3,226         -3,226            12,793         15,472        16,019          18,698
1990                               3,030         -3,030            13,658         16,532        16,688          19,562
1991                               3;O30         -3,030            14,583         17,665        17,613          20,695
1992                               3,030         -3,030            15,571         18,877         18,601         21,907
1993                               3,030         -3,030            16,627         20,174        19,657          23,204
1994                               3,226         -3,226            17,756         21,560        20,982          24,786
1995                               3,030         -3,030            18,961         23,043         21,991         26,073
1996                               3,030         -3,030            20,250          24,630        23,280         27,660
1997                               3,030         -3,030            21,626          26,326        24,656         29,356
1998                               3,030         -3,030            23,099         28,142         26,129         31,172
1999                               3,030         -3,030            24,673          30,085        27,703         33,115
ER =   22%             24%
Sources: Consultants and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



TABLE 23
rage iv or iv
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
10. Mindanao: Puerto-Kibawell
Costs                                                         Benefits
Construction,        Savings in
Right-of-Way         Maintenance                        Operating Cost Savings                Net Benefits
Year      and Supervision           Costs       Total Costs        Without Time  With Time   Without Time  With Time
(1)                  (2)       (1)-(2)=(3)              (4)           (5)      (4)-(3)= (6)  (5)-(3) = (7)
1976           11,430                 -           11,430                  -            -           -11,430        -11,430
1977           23,500                 -           23,500                  -            -           -23,500       -23,500
1978           41,950                 -           41,950                  -            -           -41,950       -41,950
1979           52,650                 -           52,650                  -            -           -52,650       -52,650
1980           18,540              6,867        -11,673              23,349          26,691         11,676         15,018
1981              -                6,867          -6,867             26,622          30,483         33,489        37,350
1982              -                6,867          -6,867             28,469          32,671         35,336        39,538
1983              -                6,867          -6,867             30,460          35,027         37,327        41,894
1984              -                9,180          -9,180             32,599          37,570         41,779        46,750
1985              -                6,867          -6,867             34,887          40,294         41,754        47,161
1986              -                6,867          -6,867             37,360          43,242         44,227         50,109
1987              -                6,867          -6,867             40,011          46,418         46,878         53,285
1988              -                6,867          -6,867             42,814          49,773         49,681         56,640
1989              -                 9,180         -9,180             45,928          53,520         55,108         62,700
1990              -                 6,867         -6,867             46,957          54,722         53,824         61,589
1991              -                 6,867         -6,867              50,271         58,781         57,138         65,648
1992              -                 6,867         -6,867              53,886         63,160         60,753         70,027
1993              -                 6,867         -6,867              57,777         67,889         64,644         74,756
1994              -                 9,180         -9,180              61,968         72,992          71,148        82,172
1995              -                 6,867         -6,867              66,482         78,504          73,349        85,371
1996              -                 6,867         -6,867              71,346         84,459          78,213        91,326
1997              -                 6,867         -6,867              76,587         90,893          83,454        97,760
1998              -                 6,867         -6,867              82,237          97,847         89,104       104,714
1999              -                 6,867         -6,867              88,329        105,366          95,196       112,233
ER =  23%            25%
1/ Includes 5 low standard feeder roads totalling about 35 km.
Sources: Consultants and Mission Estimates
December 1976.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits 1980
(Thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Improvement of Minor Roads
C 0 S T S                                                 B E N E F I T S                   1
Construction  Reduction        Operating Costs Savings        First Year Benefits( 7)-
Right-of-Way     in                  Without  With               Without  With
Engineering   Maintenance             Time    Time                 Time    Time
Roads                    Supervision      Costs
Panay
Talanghauan-Inas                 3760            -                  419     478                 9.1      10.3
Passi-Calinog                    6060          126                  865     964                11.8      13.2
Cabugao-Tayongan                 2470            -                  258     286                 8.5       9.4
Bantog-Dumarao                   2870           81                  654     726                18.9      21.0
Janiuay-Pototan                  4720          144                  603     655                10.5      11.4
Gibolo-Cabuyagan                 3070           99                  341     388                 9.3      10.6
Negros
Talisay-Concepcion               3500           99                  500     533                12.0      12.7
Silay-Guimbalaon                 3400          126                  863     918                21.2      22.6
Imbang-Patag                     2800            -                 1926    2078                55.8      60.2
Sumag-Abuanan                    2060            -                  352     373                13.9      14.7
La Castellana-Isabela            4320          144                  904     989                17.5      19.2
Hinigaran-Aranda                 5170          162                  611     670                 9.9      10.8
Cagulaan-San Isidro               970            -                  232     238                19.6      20.0
Himamaylan -Carabalan            1740            -                  851     877                40.0      41.2
Mindanao
Aglayan-Miglamin                 5820            -                  632     708                 8.8       9.9
Aglayan-Basak                    7950            -                 1091    1264                11.1      12.8
1/ Assumes discount rate of 12% p.a.; the use of FYB has been adopted as selection criteria to suit the minor
roads in project due to uncertainties in estimating future growth rates; as the streams of benefit will
keep increasing substantially the expected economic returns should exceed the FYB rates and will be
satisfactory.
Source: Consultants' Estimates
December 1976.



Table 25
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program: Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits Streams 1977-81
(million pesos)
Costs                                   Benefits
Road           Road                  Road         Road
Year   Equipment  Maintenance  Restoration  Total    Maintenance  Restoration  Total
1977     190.8        230.1          76.3      497.2        641.1         110.1      751.2
1978      86.8        243.1          99.2      429.1        712.7         109.1      821.8
1979     -15.7        255.0          89.2      328.5        797.1         102.5      899.6
1980     -18.9        265.6          77.6      324.3        903.9          75.8      979.7
1981     -21.5        277.1          34.0      289.6        990.8         52.0    1,042.8
Adjustment for residual value
of equipment (net) 1/                      -150.2
Total (1977-81)                              1,728.5                               4,495.1
Total present value (1977) 2/                1,533.0                               3,562.1
Benefit/Cost Ratio        2.32
1/   Adjustment for value of equipment takes into account the value of existing
equipment in 1976 (128.0 million) less the residual value in 1981 (268.2 million)
2/   Discount rate 12%
Source: Consultantst estimates.
December 1976.



TABLE 26
PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
Passenger Time
Beat        High             Low            Savings Excluded
Estimate    Estimate         Estimate          From Benefits
A. National Roads  Economic Returns
Luszn
Legaspi-Tabaco                 36           43              31                 30
PaY
Iloilo-Jaro                    27           31              23                 17
ZarragasPassi                  19           '4              18                2A
Jaro-Bar%,c Viejo              18           22              15                 is
Passi-Dao--                     24          78              18                  21
Negros
Bacolod_Silay                  20           25              18                 17
Bacolod-Kaba slan             22           27              19                 19
Cebu
Cebu-Carmen                    20           25              17                 16
Naga-Toledo                    24           30              20                 22
MinLdanao
Puerto-Kibawe4/                25           30              22                 23
B_ Minor Roads  First Year Benefit/Cost Ratio-
Panay
Talanghauan-Inas               10           12               8                  9
PassI-Calinog                  13           18              11                 12
Cabugao-Tayongan               10           13               8                  9
Bantog-Dumarao                 21           28              17                 19
Janiuay-Pototan                 11          15               9                 11
Gibolo-Cabuyagan               11           14               9                 10
Negros
Talisay-Concepcion             13           17              10                 12
Silay-Guimbalaon               23           30              18                 21
Imbang-Patag                   60           80              49                 56
Sumag-Abuanan                  15           20              12                 14
La Castellana-Isabela          19           26              16                 18
lsinigeran-Aranda              11           14               9                 10
Cagulaan-San Isidro             20          27              16                 20
Himamaylan-Carabalan           41           55              34                 40
Mindanao
Aglayan-Miglanin               10           13               8                  9
Aglayan-Basak                   13          17              10                 11
C.   Five-Year Road Maintennce Program  Benefit/Cost Ratio-/
National Roads Network          2.3        3.5              1 5
(23,000 ka)
1/ Assumes costs 15% lower and benefits 25% higher than in the beat estimate, except
for the maintenance program where figures used are 207 for both
21  Assumes costs 15% higher and benefits 25% lower than in the best estimate, except
for the maintenance program where figures used are 207 for both
3/ Includes 3 low standard feeder roads totalling about 10 km
41  Excludes Atugan Diversion and includes 5 low standard feeder roads totalling 35 km
Sensitivity analysis based on benefits increase of 25% for high estimate and
decrease of 257 for low estimate.
5/ Criteria used is first-year benefit ratio, with present value discounted at 12% p a
6/ Criteria used is benefit/cost ratio with present values discounted at 12% p a
Assumption is made that Government implement the restoration program
Source Consultant's and Mission's Estimates
December 1976






PHILIPPINES: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
OrBgnization Chart
ISOMI= SPA   S
-NIADN R- -ARINISTArTIVO
7-
SERVICE  SrAF ERVICET G-IC  OFFJ
|   RIANCAL EREGT                          CO AMN RTV                     L     LEA SERVICES10                                            ER   E         t1  RJC   EEOMET|l[|IR   RJC   F  C 
-|IOO       MANAEET SIIIP              II V[        D V I CIDTC_ O IVI     AWICV CtVSO                                                    -     TTSICSIGVN             RIIRO    -|          CIIO N                                                a PLANNING QTHE  FOREMEN GN|
RO ACMCE  OUNR,RITIND I O,RIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WYI PESNELOlEOPANT        EA  ATOi RTAFIITDESZMI JLPRsC






PHILIPPINES
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1976                       1977                        1978                        1979                        1980
WORK ITEM                          3                                                                                                JASONDJJie MJ JAS|N|
SIGNING OF LOAN AGREEMENT
CONSTRUCTION AND           1/
IMPROVEMENT OF ROADS-
Prequalification & Bidding                                          _
Contract Awards
Construction (incl. mobilization) (39 mths.)                      _        _   _
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM  -  (1977 - 1981)
Construction of Workshops (16 mths.) I
Procurement of Toofs and Workshop
Equipment (12 mths.)
Procurement of Road Maintenance                                                                                      -  _
Equipment, Spares and Hand
Tools (12 mths.)
Procurement of Spares and Compon-                                                                 -
ents for Existing Plant (12 mths.)                                                                                      Review by Government
and Bank and arrangements
CONSULTING SERVICES                                                                                                            for detailed engineering
Construction Supervision (39 mths.)                                                      -  _              -        -                  -
Feasibiiity Studies (12 mths.) and                                                                                        1 m99
Detailed Engineering (12 mths.)
Technical Assistance to DPH                                                                       -
124 mths.) 3/
Workshop Design and Construction                                                                  -        -         -
Supervision (20 mths.)
Training Advisers (24 mths.) _
1/ 10 National Roads and 16 Minor Roads are involved. Actual dates for bidding, contract awards and
construcilon are not the same for all roads.                                                                                                                                   World Bank-16234
2/ Road restoration component extends over the same period and is to be partly financed under
the project over the first two years
3/ Not included is 1 expert who will commence duties on or about July 1, 1976 for a period of 24 mths.






IBRD 12320
m220            A                         4r0,                                   10               J  i ULY17
PHILIPPINES
T~i         '        m  THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
A R a A tX  AYW                     CONSTRUCT ION
SNiTIwN ROADS
______ PRMARY ROADS
0m0 0                         ______ SECONDARY ROADS
-+-0V--- RALWAYS
PR NAECTRONAL ROADS CONSTRION AND
MINOR ROADS  IWROVEMENT
a  20    40    80    B  il0
k FMBLON9                                                                        _    _    _)uTiiETP
XI tOURETIRS
SAMAR                _  0_ _20 40 _ _
t                IHMASS tS  n                               /?                Mli                129
So Romib0                                          RI0  S
A~~~~P  FR             hP2AX                     g 
. 4,$     <                     -r, Wf   ,  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pope,a
acne / M^n~~~~~~~~due 0,0n             A0,0k00
.   {,MFR 4017                    FR 8.IR  FR 8017
r  407A S j0 v-  u@idasz7   (\>  S    P AH{XpPPINE  SEA
4B U K D N O SN2 |S /  TtlL   _   ZN
SaVSAMN ,S S                                             M5ANAO
AllOoian Brbar                                                                              INDLACNA
KILOMETERS T._Prorper8AOKid.            F
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ : d ro r i 
I   ~        9 5                                                      OA VA ,^o Carlo  //|
FR                                      '                                   V4 Fr
Ali.  i  Ptu      C                                                                    l        I  t
Ca><   Nui  /                   Gen. E ntf       /    1 X'7          <'tef~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN
/ tlK ~~~t// <,






IBRD 12321
*                   t
t
}fl,
Itll
ii
p1  iii                              _                                                         4

 IiI                                                       4
I
      I
K i
K4
--                       P
4ij 
-                        I    I                                               -
jIi
I
I
 (
--I                      I

,ro
3



