Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1987 PAK
       (Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 26, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1987 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1989, between  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the project will  be  carried  out  by Karachi Water and
Sewerage Board, established under  Sind Local Government Ordinance
Amendment of 1983 (hereinafter  called KWSB), assisted by Province
of Sind (hereinafter  called  the  Provincial  Government) and the
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (hereinafter called KMC) with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit available to KWSB as
hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
     (C)  in order to assist in  the financing of the Project, the
Borrower  intends  to  obtain:  (1)  a  grant  from  the  Overseas
Development  Administration  (the  ODA  Grant)  and  a  loan  from
Commonwealth Development Corporation (the  CDC Loan) of the United
Kingdom in a total amount equivalent to about $56,400,000; and (2)
a loan from the Asian Development Bank (the ADB Loan) in an amount
equivalent  to  about  $81,900,000,   under  agreements  (the  Co-
Financing Agreements) to be entered  into between the Borrower and
each of ODA, CDC and ADB; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and the Provincial Government, KMC and KWSB;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association, the Provincial Government, KMC  and KWSB of even date
herewith, as the same may be  amended  from time to time, and such
term includes all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Provincial Government and KMC pursuant to
Section 3.O1 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (d)  "Rupees" or "Rs" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to ninety-seven  million  one  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 97,100,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in the National
Bank of  Pakistan  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Page  3
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing March  1,  1999  and  ending  September  1,  2023. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 1, 2008 shall be  one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount,  and  each  installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Page  4
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The Managing Director  of KWSB is designated as
representative of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.O2  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Provincial  Government, KMC and KWSB to
perform their respective  obligations  under the Project Agreement
and  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement   in  accordance  with  the
provisions thereof, shall take and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources,  necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  the Provincial
Government, KMC and KWSB  to  perform  such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be  taken  any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
available to the Provincial Government for on-lending to KMC under
a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between the
Provincial Government and  KMC,  under  terms and conditions which
shall have been approved  by  the Association, including those set
forth in Section 2.01 (a) of the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  cause  the  Provincial Government to
exercise its rights under  the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement in such
manner as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and the
Association and to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the Credit, and
except as  the  Association  shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower
shall ensure  that  the  Provincial  Government  shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or  waive  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by the  Provincial  Government,  KMC and KWSB, each in
respect of its activities  under  the Project, pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)    ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
      (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
       (ii)    furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  fiscal  year  the report of such
               audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such
               detail as  the  Association  shall  have reasonably
               requested, including  a  separate  opinion  by said
               auditors   as   to   whether   the   statements  of
               expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal  year,
               together with the  procedures and internal controls
               involved in their  preparation,  can be relied upon
               to support the related withdrawals; and
      (iii)    furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower  shall:  (a)  review, on an annual
basis, the foreign exchange  required  for  import  by KWSB of its
spare parts needs; and  (b)  make  arrangements adequate to enable
KWSB to purchase such foreign exchange in a timely manner.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Provincial  Government  or  KMC  or  KWSB shall have
failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the Project
Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall  have  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the
Provincial Government or KMC or  KWSB  will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Sind Local Government  Ordinance  of  1979 or Sind Local
Government Ordinance (Amendment) of  1983 shall have been amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the ability of KMC or KWSB to perform any
of its obligations  under  the  Project  Agreement,  or any action
shall have been taken for  the  disestablishment of KMC or KWSB or
for the suspension of its operations.
     (d)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
Page  6
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the  amount  provided under any of
                    the Co-Financing  Agreements  shall  have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  the CDC Loan or the ADB Loan shall have become
                    due and payable  prior  to the agreed maturity
                    thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement, and
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
               conditions consistent with  the  obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any of the events specified  in paragraphs (c) or (d)(i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section l2.Ol (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the PC-1 and PC-II  documents  for the Project have been
approved by  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  National Economic
Council;
     (b)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Provincial Government and KMC; and
     (c)  the Co-Financing Agreements  for  the  ODA Grant and the
CDC Loan have  been  concluded  between  the  Borrower and ODA and
between the Borrower  and  CDC,  respectively,  and all conditions
precedent to the  effectiveness  of  said Co-Financing Agreements,
except for the effectiveness  of the Development Credit Agreement,
have been fulfilled.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  l2.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by  the  Provincial  Government,  KMC  and  KWSB,  and is
legally binding upon the  Provincial  Government,  KMC and KWSB in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the Provincial Government and KMC and is
legally binding upon the Provincial  Government and KMC in accord-
ance with its terms.
Page  7
     Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the  purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of  this  Agreement  and the provisions of paragraph
(b) of Section 5.O2 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on the date  twenty  years  after  the  date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary  or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMIC                          ECDIV-O5-634
               Pakistan
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                    By /s/ H.E. Kûpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works:                                     80%
     (a)  for primary         13,370,000
          distribu-
          tion
          strengthening
     (b)  other works         64,000,000
(2)  Goods                     1,554,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of other local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Consultants'             14,140,000        100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Incremental staff           466,000        100%
     salaries
(5)  Unallocated               3,570,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    97,100,000
2.   For the purposes  of  this  Schedule:  (a)  the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "incremental staff salaries" means expenditures
on account of  the  salaries  of  new  staff  assigned to KWSB for
purposes of Part C of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:  (a)  in  respect  of payments made for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 1,600,000, may  be  made  on  account  of payments made for
expenditures  before  that  date  but  after  March  1,  1988; and
(b)  under  Category  (1)(b)   until  the  Co-Financing  Agreement
Page  9
providing  the  Borrower  with  the  ADB  Loan  shall  have become
effective.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are:
     (a)  to increase the supply of potable water;
     (b)  to improve sanitary  conditions  in  the City of Karachi
(including  its  low-income   and   coastal   areas)  through  the
improvement of the sewerage services; and
     (c)  to improve  the  financial  viability,  organization and
management of KWSB.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water and Sewerage Works
1.   Construction of (a) about  150  km of a parallel transmission
system to convey raw Indus River Water from the K-G Canal to a new
treatment facility in  Northeast  Karachi (including completion of
related works on the water feeder system); and
     (b)  about 50 km of  primary distribution mains in Northeast,
Southeast and Central Karachi.
2.   Expansion and construction  of  water treatment facilities at
the existing  Pipri  Treatment  Works,  Northeast  Karachi and the
Mangho Pir Pumping Station.
3.   Works for:
     (a)  cleaning and repairing of existing sewers;
     (b)  rehabilitation of two existing pumping stations; and
     (c)  construction of about  200  km  of  secondary sewers and
five trunk sewers totalling about 40 km.
     (d)  construction of three sewerage  facilities at Lyari Salt
Beds,  Korangi  and  Baldia,  and  upgrading  of  existing  sewage
treatment works in Northeast Karachi.
4.   The  provision  of   technical   services  required  for  the
preparation  of  the  detailed   engineering   for,  and  for  the
procurement, supervision and management of, the works indicated in
this Part.
Part B:   Equipment and Installation Works
1.   Provision and installation  of  equipment  for  the new water
treatment facilities referred to in  Part  A (2) above and the new
high lift  pumping  station  in  Northeast  Karachi;  and  for the
expansion of the pumping station at Dhabeji.
2.   Provision and  installation  of  equipment  for  the sewerage
facilities and works referred to in Part A.3 (d) above.
3.   Provision of maintenance vehicles and equipment.
4.   The  provision  of   technical   services  required  for  the
preparation  of  the  detailed   engineering   for,  and  for  the
procurement, supervision and management of, the works indicated in
paragraphs (1) and (2) above.
Page  10
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening of KWSB
1.   Organization and Management
     (a)  Provision of  technical  services  and  training for the
purposes of improving the  organizational structure and functions;
developing  systems  and  procedures  manuals;  assessing training
needs and developing  an  incremental  staffing plan; implementing
management training; designing the organization of the Development
Wing and establishing a project monitoring unit; and
     (b)  Works, technical  and  management  services and training
for  the  purposes  of  establishing  and  developing  systems and
procedures for a training  center;  identifying  and training of a
training director; developing and  implementing a training program
for  managers  and  key   technicians  and  coordinating  training
programs.
2.   Finance
     The  provision  of  technical  and  management  services  and
training to  complete  computerization  work;  introduce financial
planning, performance  targets  and  multi-year budgeting; improve
billing  and   collections;   improve   financial   reporting  and
coordination between finance, tax  and engineering departments and
assist  in  reviewing   tariff   structure   and  in  implementing
recommendations.
3.   Water Projects Management and Operation
     Provision  of  works,  equipment,  technical  and  management
services, training and related works  to train KWSB's engineers on
the preparation  of  detailed  engineering, procurement documents,
evaluation of bids, supervision  of construction and commissioning
of works;  strengthen  leak  detection unit and reduce unaccounted
for water; undertake a  metering  study and assist in implementing
the  recommendations  thereof;  establish  the  Development  Wing;
computerize the information systems  for  water operations and for
the planning, design and  construction  management function of the
Development  Wing;  introduce  computer-based  inventory  of water
network and improve water system mapping.
4.   Sewerage Operation
     (a)  Provision  of  technical  and  management  services  and
training to improve the  capacity  of KWSB's engineers in sewerage
project execution; conduct  sewer  survey;  prepare system mapping
and computer-based inventory  of  sewerage; supervise cleaning and
repair of sewers; strengthen the  capabilities of KWSB in sewerage
operations and management and  computerize the information systems
for sewerage operations and management.
     (b)  Provision of  equipment  for  industrial effluent survey
and monitoring.
     (c)  Provision  of  technical  services  to  assist  in:  (i)
strengthening the capacity of KWSB  and  GOS in enforcing the Sind
Local Government Ordinance of  1979 and the Pakistan Environmental
Protection Ordinance of 1983 with  respect to the control of waste
water and industrial  effluent  in  Karachi; and (ii) establishing
the Sind Environmental Protection Agency.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
Page  11
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible   Categories"   means  any  of  the
Categories set forth in the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
Page  12
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the
equivalent of  twice  the  amount  of  the  Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall  so  request, refund to the Associa-
tion) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so  eligible  or  justified.    Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further  deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be  made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
