Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 1987-1 PAK
                                          (Amendment)
                       Agreement Amending
                 Development Credit Agreement and
                         Project Agreement
      (Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
                             between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
                         PROVINCE OF SINDH
                                and
                 KARACHI METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
                               and
                 KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 19, 1993
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 1987-1 PAK
                                             (Amendment)
                        AGREEMENT AMENDING
        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT AND PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1993, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and PROVINCE OF
SINDH acting by its Governor (SINDH) and KARACHI METROPOLITAN
CORPORATION (KMC) and KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD (KWSB) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into
a Development Credit Agreement (Second Karachi Water Supply and
Sanitation Project) dated April 26, 1989 (the Development Credit
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
(the Project);
      (B)   the Association and Sindh and KMC and KWSB have entered
into a Project Agreement (Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation
Project) dated April 26, 1989 (the Project Agreement);
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-six
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
Page  2
(SDR 66,400,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
           Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (c),
substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection (d) and adding
a new Subsection (e) as follows:
            "(e) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending
      the Development Credit Agreement (Second Karachi Water Supply
      and Sanitation Project) between the Borrower and the
      Association, dated April 26, 1989, and the Project Agreement
      (Second Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation Project) between
      the Association and Sindh and KMC and KWSB, of even date
      therewith."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
      Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
      in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
      currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty-three million five
      hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 163,500,000) in
      two tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various
      currencies equivalent to ninety-seven million one hundred
      thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 97,100,000) (the First
      Tranche) and the second tranche being an amount in various
      currencies equivalent to sixty-six million four hundred
      thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 66,400,000) (the Second
      Tranche)."
      Section 1.03. In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement, the following new paragraph (c) is added:
            "(c)  Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
      otherwise agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account
      or made subject to a special commitment pursuant to
      Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be
      charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been
      exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged against the Second
      Tranche."
      Section 1.04. In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Closing Date is amended to read as "June 30, 1998".
      Section 1.05. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04
(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
            "; provided, however, that commitment charges on the
      Second Tranche shall accrue from a date sixty days after the
      date of the Amending Agreement;".
      Section 1.06. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement.
      Section 1.07. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Amending
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                Amendment of the Project Agreement
      Section 2.01. In Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Project
Agreement, the reference to the amount of the Credit is amended to
read as "one hundred sixty-three million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 163,500,000)".
      Section 2.02. A new Section 2.08 is added to the Project
Agreement to read as follows:
             "Section 2.08. KWSB shall acquire and have in its
      possession all land required for Parts A.1(a) and 2 of the
      Project before seeking the approval of the Association to any
      procurement contracts proposed to be awarded for those parts
      of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
      Credit."
      Section 2.03. A new Section 2.09 is added to the Project
Agreement to read as follows:
            "Section 2.09. Sindh shall:
                  (a)  in order to ensure the adequate and timely
            availability of local counterpart funds required for the
            Project, open and maintain in Rupees for the duration of
            the Project a project account for KWSB in the National
            Bank of Pakistan in an amount and on terms and
            conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
                  (b)   enable the Association's representatives to
            examine the records for such project account and furnish
            to the Association such information concerning such
            records as the Association shall from time to time
            reasonably request."
                            ARTICLE III
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 3.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association: (a) that the execution and
delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower,
Sindh, KMC and KWSB have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action; (b) that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been amended in a manner satisfactory to the
Association; and (c) that KMC has, in fulfillment of its obligations
under Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement, made adequate cash
contributions to KWSB to cover KWSB's total operating expenses, its
debt service requirements, increases in its net working capital
other than cash and at least 20% of its capital expenditures, all
for FY 93.
      Section 3.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing: (a)
that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, Sindh,
KMC and KWSB, respectively, and is legally binding upon each one of
them in accordance with its terms; and (b) that the amended
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Sindh and KMC and is legally binding upon Sindh and KMC in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
      Section 3.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
Page  4
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending
Agreement had not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  PROVINCE OF SINDH
                  KARACHI METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
                  KARACHI WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
                  By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Works:                                    80%
      (a)  for primary        10,200,000
           distribution
           strengthening
      (b)  other works       117,000,000
(2)   Equipment                  680,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
Page  5
(3)   Consultants'            30,000,000        100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Incremental                600,000        100%
      staff salaries
(5)   Unallocated              5,020,000
                             ___________
           TOTAL             163,500,000
                             ===========
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are:
      (a)  to increase the supply of potable water;
      (b)  to improve sanitary conditions in the City of Karachi
(including its low-income and coastal areas) through the improvement
of the sewerage services; and
      (c)  to improve the financial viability, organization and
management of KWSB.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Water and Sewerage Works
1.    (a)  Construction of about 150 km of a parallel transmission
system to convey raw Indus River Water from the K-G Canal to a new
treatment facility in Northeast Karachi (including completion of
related works on the water feeder system);
      (b)  provision of about 10 km of primary distribution mains in
Northeast and Central Karachi; and
      (c)  repair of the Hub main.
2.    Construction of water treatment facilities in Northeast
Karachi, including low- and high-lift pumping stations, treated
water storage facilities, maintenance and administration buildings
and staff housing.
3.    Works for:
      (a)  cleaning and repairing of existing sewers;
      (b)  rehabilitation of two existing pumping stations;
      (c)  construction of about 200 km of secondary sewers and five
trunk sewers totalling about 40 km; and
      (d)  construction of three sewerage facilities at Lyari Salt
Beds, Korangi and Baldia, and upgrading of existing sewage treatment
works in Northeast Karachi.
4.    The provision of technical services required for the
preparation of the detailed engineering for, and for the
procurement, supervision and management of, the works indicated in
this Part.
Part B:    Equipment and Installation Works
1.    Provision and installation of equipment for the new water
treatment facilities referred to in Part A (2) above and the new
high-lift pumping stations in Northeast Karachi; and for the
Page  6
expansion of the pumping station in Dhabeji.
2.    Provision and installation of equipment for the sewerage
facilities and works referred to in Part A.3 (d) above.
3.    Provision of maintenance vehicles and equipment.
4.    The provision of technical services required for the
preparation of the detailed engineering for, and for the
procurement, supervision and management of, the works indicated in
paragraphs (1) and (2) above.
Part C:    Institutional Strengthening of KWSB
1.    Organization and Management
      Provision of: (a) technical services and training for the
purposes of improving the organizational structure and functions;
developing systems and procedures manuals; assessing training needs
and developing an incremental staffing plan; implementing management
training; designing the organization of the Development Wing and
establishing a project monitoring unit; and preparing a Corporate
Plan and an agenda and strategy for a role for the private sector;
and
      (b)  works, technical and management services and training for
the purposes of establishing and developing systems and procedures
for a training center; identifying and training of a training
director; developing and implementing a training program for
managers and key technicians; and coordinating training programs.
2.    Finance
      (a)  Provision of technical and management services and
training to complete computerization work; introduce financial
planning, performance targets and multi-year budgeting; improve
billing and collection; improve financial reporting and coordination
between finance, tax and engineering departments; increase
collections; assist in reviewing tariff structure and in
implementing recommendations; and develop and manage a consumer
education program.
      (b)  Upgrading of the mainframe computer, and provision of
personal computers to the tariff collection divisions.
3.    Water Projects Management and Operation
      Provision of equipment, technical and management services and
training to undertake immediate upgrading works on Kalri-Baghar
(K-B) Feeder and Kinjher Lake; to train KWSB's engineers in the
preparation of detailed engineering, procurement documents,
evaluation of bids, supervision of construction and commissioning of
works; strengthen leak detection unit and reduce unaccounted for
water; undertake a metering study and assist in implementing the
recommendations thereof; establish the Development Wing; computerize
the information systems for water operations and for the planning,
design and construction management functions of the Development
Wing; and preparation of study for privatization on an experimental
basis of water distribution and sewerage services in high-income
areas.
4.    Sewerage Operation
      (a)  Provision of technical and management services and
training to improve the capacity of KWSB's engineers in sewerage
project execution; conduct sewer survey; prepare system mapping and
computer-based inventory of sewerage; supervise cleaning and repair
of sewers; strengthen the capabilities of KWSB in sewerage
operations and management; and computerize the information systems
for sewerage operations and management.
      (b)  Provision of equipment for industrial effluent survey and
Page  7
monitoring.
      (c)  Provision of technical services to assist in: (i)
strengthening the capacity of KSWB and GOS in enforcing the Sind
Local Government Ordinance of 1979 and the Pakistan Environmental
Protection Ordinance of 1983 with respect to the control of waste
water and industrial effluent in Karachi; and (ii) establishing the
Sind Environmental Protection Agency.
                          *      *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
