Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15442
INFLEMENATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FOREST MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
MARCH 19, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
End of Period Figures
Sources: International Financial Statistics, 1994 and February 1996
Malagasy Francs (Fmg)
Year         per SDR      per US$
1985            698.4       635.8
1986            941.6       769.8
1987           1751.0      1234.3
1988          2054.1       1526.4
1989          2014.0       1532.5
1990          2085.4       1465.8
1991          2621.5       1832.7
1992          2626.5       1910.2
1993          2695.8       1962.7
1994           5651.2     3871.1
Oct.1995        6857.4      4588.3
Note: the Fmg started floating on May 1, 1994.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIVF               Amenagement integre des vallees forestieres
ANAE               Association nationale d'Actions environnementales
ANGAP              Association nationale pour la Gestion des Aires prot6g6es
AVF                Amenagement des vallees forestieres
DD                 Direction des Domaines
DEF                Direction des Eaux et Forets
DFS                Deutsche Forstservice
DVA                Direction de la Vulgarisation agricole
ESSA               Ecole sup6rieure des Sciences agronomiques
FANALAMANGA   Fanjarian' Ala Ambatondrazaka Moramanga
FAO                United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FMG                Franc malagasy
FOFIFA             Foibem-Pirenena Momban'ny Fikarohana Ampiharina Amin'ny
Fampandrosoana Ny eny Ambanivohitra (National Agricultural Research
Institute)
FTM                Foiben-Taosarintanin'i Madagasikara (National Geographic Institute)
GPF                Gestion et Protection des Forets
IDA                International Development Association
IFC                International Finance Corporation
KEPEM              Knowledge and Effective Policies for Environment Management
NEAP               National Environmental Action Plan (= PAE)
NOK                Norwegian Kroner
ONE                Office national de l'Environnement
ONF                Office national des Forets
PAE                Plan d'Action environnementale (= NEAP)
SDR                Special Drawing Right
SwF                Swiss Franc
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
ZABA               Zone d'approvisionnement en bois d'Antananarivo
ZODAFARB           Zone d'action en faveur de l'arbre
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Madagascar (DEF) January 1 - December 31
FANALAMANGA July I - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................................1i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................1i
A. Project Objectives ................................................................i
B. Implementation  Experience  and  Results ............................................................ ii
C. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ............... iii
PART I: EVALUATION FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..........................................1
A. Introduction ................................................................lI
B. Statement and  Evaluation  of Objectives .............................................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives .................................................................3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................4
E. Project Sustainability .................................................................6
F. Bank's Performance .................................................................7
G. Borrower's Performance .................................................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome .................................................................8
1. Future  Operation .................................................................9
J. Key  Lessons learned ................................................................                                           10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........................... 12
A. Basic  Information ................................................................                                             12
B. DEF  component ................................................................                                                 14
C. FANALAMANGA   Component ................................................................                                         17
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................................................                                                             21
Table  1: Summary  of Assessments ................................................................                                  21
Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Project Preparation Facilities ......................... 22
Table  3: Project Timetable ................................................................                                      23
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 23
Table  5: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................. 24
Table  6: Key  Indicators for Project Operation ....................................................... 26
Table  7: Studies Included  in  Project ................................................................                            27
Table  8A: Project Costs ................................................................                                         28
Table  8B: Project Financing ................................................................                                     28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits, (FANALAMANGA only)* .................... 28
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................................                                 29
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (expressed in staffweeks) ....................... 30
Table  12: Bank  Resources: Missions ................................................................                                 30
APPENDIX A: COMMENTS BY THE BORROWER ........................................................... 31
APPENDIX B: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF FANALAMANGA ........................................ 33
APPENDIX C: EVALUATION OF FANALAMANGA .......................................................... 38
MAP OF MADAGASCAR IBRD NO. 20657 ................................................................                                                          40






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forests Management and
Protection Project in Madagascar, for which Credit 1878-MAG in the amount of SDR 5.1 million
equivalent was approved on February 16, 1988 and made effective on November 28, 1988. In
November 1994, SDR 1.3 million were canceled as a result of the transfer of the DEF component
from Credit 1878-MAG to Credit 2125-MAG (Environment Project).
2.    The Credit was closed on November 3, 1995, earlier than the original closing date of
January 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on June 22, 1995. Upon closing, a balance of
SDR 0.25 million was canceled.
3.    Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) in the
amount of SwF 10.4 million (the Swiss Contribution) and the Kingdom of Norway in the amount
of NOK 13 million (the Norwegian Grant). In November 1994, SwF 7.2 million and NOK 12.6
million were canceled as a result of the transfer of the DEF component from Credit 1 878-MAG
to Credit 2125-MAG (Environment Project). The Government's contribution is estimated at
US$4.8 million.
4.    The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III, and the Appendixes of this ICR were
prepared by Benoit Bosquet and Michel Simeon, Task Managers (AF3AE) with Connie Luff,
Operations Analyst (AF3AE), and reviewed by Nils Tcheyan, Division Chief (AF3AE), and
Padmanabha Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser (AF3DR).
5.    The ICR is based, among other documents, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Development
Credit Agreement, mid-term review, and supervision reports for the Forests Management and
Protection Project, the Project Completion Reports for the First and Second Mangoro Forestry
Projects (Credits 525-MAG and 1161-MAG), the Project Performance Audit Reports for the
First and Second Mangoro Forestry Projects, a completion mission carried out by Guy
Andriantsara (Economist, Consultant) in September-October 1995, and the findings of an
evaluation of the firm FANALAMANGA by Bernard Lapeze (Forestry Specialist, Consultant) in
September 1994.
6.    The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the Project's
execution (Part II) and providing comments that are included in an appendix.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the Project were: (a) to strengthen the capacity of the Waters and
Forests Directorate (Direction des Eaux et Forets or DEF) to manage the forestry sector and
carry out priority programs to implement the Borrower's National Conservation Strategy and
Forestry Policy; (b) to stimulate private reforestation; (c) to prevent further degradation of
natural forests; and (d) to assist FANALAMANGA in developing the Mangoro plantation to a
production level which would allow sustainable and profitable exploitation.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the Project consisted of three major components to be carried
out by two implementing agencies. First, the forestry development reinforcement component,
entrusted to DEF, included: (a) improvements in sector management by strengthening activities
such as sector programming, program monitoring, financial management, information system
and forestry promotion; (b) the formulation and implementation of a policy for forest
exploitation regarding forest revenues and cutting permits; (c) the promotion of private
reforestation programs consisting of sensitizing, training and supervision of the operators,
development of nurseries, the acquisition of equipment for land preparation and planting, and
road and track rehabilitation; (d) a program of integrated forest valley development activities
addressing the issue of slash-and-bum cultivation, including sensitizing and supervision of the
populations concerned, small-scale irrigation works in forest valley bottoms, agro-forestry for
soil conservation, food and export crops, testing of community forest management, support to
apiculture, fishery products and the construction and equipping of technical support centers
together with staff training; (e) seed supply activities; (f) the rehabilitation of forestry stations;
(g) applied research activities, mainly species trials.
3.    Second, natural forest protection, also entrusted to DEF aimed at: (a) the introduction of
forest protection measures in two gazetted forests (Andasibe and Ankarafantsika), including the
creation of a national park at Andasibe, improved demarcation methods, usage of patrols and
enforcement of boundaries, promotion of tourism, and development of village participatory
methods to support forest conservation; (b) the expansion of forest protection measures to the
reserves of Zahamena and Tsaratanana.
4.    Third, the Project continued its support to the FANALAMANGA parastatal for the
implementation of a silvicultural program, including: (a) a fire protection program; (b) road
maintenance and construction of secondary roads and tracks; (c) inventory programs to monitor
plantations; (d) pasture improvements for communities adjacent to the plantations; and (e)
research to monitor the impact of the silvicultural program.



ii
5.    The Project abandoned the pulpmill idea (cf. paras 6-8 hereafter) since it was
demonstrated that neither producing the pulp locally nor exporting the wood for processing
abroad would be profitable under current conditions (high transport costs from
FANALAMANGA to the Toamasina ocean harbor and low world market prices in the early
1980s).
6.    This Project was the third one financed by IDA in the forestry sector in Madagascar. The
first one (First Mangoro Forestry Project, US$13.5 million from Loan 1065-MAG and Credit
525-MAG) extended over the period 1975-1982 and supported the establishment of new
plantations in the Mangoro Valley aiming at supplying a future integrated silvo-industrial project
around a pulpmill. Due to lower-than-expected yields, and despite outstanding implementation
performance on the Borrower's part, the viability of the future pulpmill was questioned.
7.    The second project (Second Mangoro Forestry Project, US$20.0 million from Credit
1161-MAG) extended over the period 1982-1988 and aimed at maintaining investments in the
Mangoro plantations and the related operations at the same rhythm as under the first project,
while carefully studying the silvo-industrial potential of the plantations.
8.    The second Project's results were significantly different from the projections: (i) the
plantation yields turned out to be unexpectedly low, preventing the construction of the pulpmill
and forcing FANALAMANGA to look for alternative uses for its plantations (sawn wood
essentially, which required a pruning and thinning program very late in the process); (ii) the
studies on the potential uses of the existing plantations did not deliver all the expected
investment options. As the Project Completion Report (PCR, 1991) for the second Project
mentioned, long-term sustainability of the Mangoro operations was questionable. An economic
rate of return of 7 percent was envisaged by the PCR in a pessimistic scenario (only part of the
wood produced would find outlets) but was confirmed by the Project Performance Audit Report
in 1994.
9.    The above factors, combined with the Bank's reorientation from  pure forestry
exploitation to institution building and programming, forest exploitation control, assistance to
villagers for reforestation, and expansion and protection of natural reserves, led it to include the
Direction des Eaux et Forets (Waters and Forests Directorate) in its support strategy. All these
lessons were integrated in setting the objectives of the subsequent project, the Forests
Management and Protection Project.
B.    Implementation Experience and Results
10.   DEF experienced great difficulty in implementing the project, because of both
management and technical deficiencies. The main cause was recognized to be the excessive
centralization at the Director's level, the lack of delegation to the Project coordinator, and the
lack of a sector strategy. DEF proved inefficient at handling procurement diligently, thereby
delaying the purchase of equipment and recruitment of consultants.



iii
11.   DEF also had to struggle with deficiencies in equipment and training. DEF lacked the
means to achieve a real impact on the rural populations and no synergies were developed with
the other promotors of rural development.
12.   Other implementation problems included the poor performance of some of the earlier
coordinators, the successive resignations of financial advisers, the difficulty to implement a
monitoring and evaluation system, the difficulty to integrate technical assistants and consultants,
and the absence of follow-up or outright rejection of their recommendations.
13.   Since the mid-term review in April 1992, the reorganization of the Project and the change
in Directors at DEF, implementation and morale have improved significantly. By the time
DEF's activities were transferred to the IDA-financed Environment Project in 1994, the Project
was rated satisfactory for an implementation performance (the development objective rating
remained mostly negative, as Table 12 in appendix indicates). All the activities initiated by the
mid-term review (a forest inventory, a new human resource policy and a new forestry policy) and
some new ones (the creation of new protected areas and the management of natural gazetted
forests) are currently developing at a satisfactory rhythm under the umbrella of the Environment
Project.
14.   FANALAMANGA  encountered problems in ensuring the succession of its older
executives by younger ones. Nonetheless, it was capable of reorienting its activities away from
the production of wood pulp (the initial destination of plantations in the mid-i 970s) and toward
the maintenance of plantations to supply sawn wood, charcoal and resin. FANALAMANGA
achieved most of the objectives assigned by the Project.
15.   As far as results are concerned, FANALAMANGA has achieved a satisfactory percentage
of its objectives, while DEF can show only few results on the ground.
C.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
16.   Sustainability.  The sustainability prospects for the DEF components as they were
executed until the mid-term review are negative: extension and rehabilitation methods proved too
costly; rural populations participated only marginally in the Project's activities; there was little or
no maintenance in reforestation perimeters; fires destroyed vast amounts of reforested land; rice
fields were abandoned; dams and fish ponds were destroyed by cyclones and never repaired.
After the mid-term review, these components were dropped and the Project was dramatically
reorganized. Institutional reinforcement of DEF is now funded under the first phase of the
Environment Project (1990-1996) and will continue during the second phase (1997-2001) with
better chances of long-term impact and sustainability.
17.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the FANALAMANGA component of the
Project was estimated to be 55 percent at appraisal. However, due essentially to production
volumes much lower than expected and to excessive personnel costs, the ERR at completion is
estimated at 3 percent or less, even based on optimistic sales forecasts beyond 1995 and with all



iv
the investments prior to the third Project considered as sunk costs. This is worse than the first
and second Mangoro projects (see para 8 above).
18.   As far as FANALAMANGA's financial sustainability is concerned, prospects have
improved since the recovery of international market prices for pulpwood and woodpulp and the
establishment of several saw mills that are expected to buy up the whole production of the
enterprise. The self-financing capacity should become positive for the first time in 1996 and in
the year 2000 self-financing should exceed financing needs. This should be considered as a
positive development to attract investors if the enterprise were to be privatized. The long-term
viability of the plantations, however, will be determined by the future of the enterprise. The
Government of Madagascar will probably decide to divest itself to a certain extent; through
selling all of the assets or through a joint venture remains to be seen. A full privatization might
mean the disappearance of the plantations in the long run and the reversal of land to pastoral and
agricultural uses.
19.   Future Operation. The second phase of the Environment Project will give DEF the
means to launch concrete natural forest management activities and transfer technology to local
populations. In the course of the second phase, the improvement in DEF's institutional capacity
will have to be monitored. The four main areas to be monitored are (i) the status of human
resources within DEF and in its provincial and district branches (number of staff, means
available, adequacy of skills/needs, etc.); (ii) the knowledge of the contents of forests; (iii) the
adoption and development of the recently drafted Forest Code; and (iv) the adoption and impact
of new forest management techniques based on rational exploitation and new pricing
mechanisms.
20.   After 20 years of financing FANALAMANGA's establishment and expansion
(representing a US$30 million investment), IDA decided to stop its support. The business and
market situations described above should allow the enterprise to sustain itself without foreign
assistance and with minimal assistance from the Malagasy Government. Indicators to be
followed in the future, which will determine the financial sustainability and viability of the
enterprise, include (i) the volumes and values of the sales of sawn wood and pulpwood; (ii) the
weight of personnel-related expenditures; (iii) the total area of the plantations; (iv) the yield of
the plantations; and (v) the state of the infrastructure (roads, equipment, sawmills, etc.).
21.   Key Lessons. The key lessons learned during the Forests Management and Protection
Project include the following:
(a)   Institutional reinforcement may be needed before a project can be executed. This is true
at the central and local levels. The central level must follow or modify a strategy and be
given the human and financial means for this strategy; the local level must be given the
means and skills to execute the project or monitor the project execution. In this Project,
DEF's regional and sub-regional offices have by and large been left deprived of adequate
means to fulfill their tasks. This shortfall has been taken into account for the preparation
of the second phase of the Environment Project, which will carry on IDA assistance to
DEF. In the second Environment Project, DEF will no longer manage activities directly



v
but encourage the private sector and local populations to take over productive activities
while limiting itself to a regulatory role.
(b)   The Project coordinating unit must be given enough autonomy from political pressures,
especially if it is located within the Government. In the first years of this Project, the
coordinator was too dependent upon the DEF Director's goodwill.
(c)   Procurement work must be started early, preferably during the preparation phase, so that
commitments and disbursements can begin in the first year of the project. This has been
particularly true for this Project: DEF was not familiar with Bank guidelines and took a
long time to become operational. Specific procurement training during the preparation
phase would have helped overcome this deficiency.
(d)   Monitoring & evaluation should be the subject of attention right from the start of the
project and the M&E system should be based on systematic and reliable indicators. In
this Project, the M&E function has been neglected, so that little quantified data is
available to form a judgment on the Project's impact and assess its economic
justification.
(e)   Close support from Bank staff, preferably staff resident in the country, is beneficial to
project execution. The Project implementing agencies have clearly expressed their view
that project implementation was facilitated by the presence of a Task Manager at the
Resident Mission since October 1994.
(f)    Distortions may appear between Bank funded projects or agencies due to salary
discrepancies, e.g. between a Government agency and a private agency. The loss of
qualified personnel from DEF to ANGAP and the differences in salaries and travel
allowances between these two agencies often mar their working relationship.
(g)   The work of consultants and technical assistants must be integrated in project activities
and evaluated systematically to ensure correct transfer of technology. This proved
difficult at DEF in the first years of the Project.



-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
PART I: EVALUATION FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction
1.    Madagascar's Environment. Madagascar's national area covered with primary natural
forest has declined from about 25 percent of total surface in 1950 to 20 percent in 1972 and less
than 15 percent today. Poverty and the low level of agricultural technology (e.g. slash-and-bum
agriculture) compounded by a rapid population increase (over 12 million, rising at nearly 3
percent a year) are the main causes of natural resources degradation, including deforestation,
vegetation fires, soil erosion and loss of fertility. Forest cover will disappear within 25 years if
current trends are to continue.
2.    The negative impact of environmental degradation on the economy is very high: the
economic cost of lower agricultural productivity due to soil loss and siltation, damaged
infrastructure, and the need to build new infrastructure to higher standards was estimated to equal
between 5 and 15 percent of Madagascar's GNP annually in 1990.
3.    Furthermore, the country is losing largely endemic species and essential ecosystems of
environmental, genetic, and medical importance, thereby making Madagascar one of the world's
top priorities in terms of environment and conservation.
4.    The World Bank in Forestry in Madagascar. This Project is the third one financed by
IDA in the forestry sector in Madagascar. The first one (First Mangoro Forestry Project,
US$13.5 million from Loan 1065-MAG and Credit 525-MAG) extended over the period 1975-
1982 and supported the establishment of new plantations in the Mangoro Valley aiming at
supplying a future integrated silvo-industrial project around a pulpmill. Due to lower-than-
expected yields, and despite outstanding implementation performance on the Borrower's part, the
viability of the future pulpmill was questioned.
5.    The second one (Second Mangoro Forestry Project, US$20.0 million from Credit 1161-
MAG) extended over the period 1982-1988 and aimed at maintaining investments in the
Mangoro plantations and the related operations at the same rhythm as under the first project,
while carefully studying the silvo-industrial potential of the plantations.
6.    The second Project's results were significantly different from the projections: (i) the
plantation yields turned out to be unexpectedly low, preventing the construction of the pulpmill
and forcing FANALAMANGA to look for alternative uses for its plantations (sawn wood
essentially, which required a pruning and thinning program very late in the game); (ii) the studies
on the potential uses of the existing plantations did not deliver all the expected investment
options. As the Project Completion Report (PCR, 1991) for the second Project mentioned, long-



2                                             Part 1. Project Implementation Assessment
term sustainability of the Mangoro operations was questionable. The economic rate of return of
7 percent was envisaged by the PCR in a pessimistic scenario (only part of the wood produced
would find outlets) but was confirmed by the Project Performance Audit Report in 1994.
7.    The above factors, combined with the Bank's reorientation from  pure forestry
exploitation to institution building and programming, forest exploitation control, assistance to
villagers for reforestation, and expansion and protection of natural reserves, led it to include the
Direction des Eaux et Forets (Waters and Forests Directorate) in its support strategy. All these
lessons were integrated in setting the objectives of the subsequent project, the Forests
Management and Protection Project.
8.    This Project abandoned the initial pulpmill idea since it was demonstrated that neither
producing the pulp locally nor exporting the logs for processing abroad would be profitable
under current conditions (high transport costs from FANALAMANGA to the Toamasina ocean
harbor and low world market prices in the early 1980s).
B.    Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
9.    The objectives of this Project became: (a) to strengthen the capacity of DEF to manage
the forestry sector and carry out priority programs to implement the Borrower's National
Conservation Strategy and Forestry Policy; (b) to stimulate private reforestation; (c) to prevent
further degradation of natural forests; and (d) to assist FANALAMANGA in developing the
Mangoro plantation to a production level which allowed sustainable and profitable exploitation.
10.   To achieve these objectives, the Project comprised three major components executed by
two implementing agencies. First, the forestry development reinforcement component, entrusted
to DEF, included: (a) improvements in sector management strengthening activities such as sector
programming, program monitoring, financial management, information system and forestry
promotion; (b) the formulation and implementation of a forest exploitation policy relating to
forest revenues and exploitation permits; (c) the promotion of private reforestation programs
consisting of sensitizing, training and supervision of the operators, development of nurseries,
acquisition of equipment for land preparation and planting, and road and track rehabilitation; (d)
a program of integrated forest valley development activities addressing the issue of slash-and-
burn cultivation, including sensitizing and supervision of the populations concerned, small-scale
irrigation works in forest valley bottoms, agro-forestry for soil conservation, food and export
crops, testing of community forest management, support to apiculture, fishery products and the
construction and equipping of technical support centers and staff training; (e) seed supply
activities; (f) the rehabilitation of forestry stations; (g) applied research activities, mainly species
trials.
11.   Second, natural forest protection, also entrusted to DEF, aimed at: (a) the introduction of
forest protection measures in two gazetted forests (Andasibe and Ankarafantsika), including the
creation of a national park at Andasibe, improved demarcation methods, usage of patrols and
enforcement of boundaries, promotion of tourism, and development of village participatory



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                                       3
methods to support forest conservation; (b) the expansion of forest protection measures to the
reserves of Zahamena and Tsaratanana.
12.   Third, the Project continued its support to the FANALAMANGA parastatal for the
implementation of a silvicultural program, including: (a) a fire protection program; (b) road
maintenance and construction of secondary roads and tracks; (c) inventory programs to monitor
plantations; (d) pasture improvements for communities adjacent to the plantations; and (e)
research to monitor the impact of the silvicultural program
13.   The objectives of the Project were unrealistic (please refer to Section F on Bank's
Performance.)
C.   Achievement of Objectives
14.   As Table 5 illustrates, FANALAMANGA has achieved a satisfactory percentage of its
objectives. However, the actual sales levels are well below forecasts.
15.   DEF can show far fewer results on the ground due to poor or unrealistic project design
and inadequate implementation capacity (insufficient means, poor leadership, inexperience in
project management) on DEF's part:
(a)   a timber resource management plan was not developed for Antananarivo;
(b)   the frequent revision expected in forest fees did not occur;
(c)   populations did not effectively participate in the extension system put in place under
ZODAFARB. DEF agents proved unable to exploit villagers' spontaneous reforestation
initiatives;
(d)   the AIVF activities were never integrated into the work of the Agriculture, Livestock and
Rural Engineering departments;
(e)   only two out of five seed production centers were rehabilitated due to the cost of the
rehabilitation;
(f)   no forestry station was rehabilitated;
(g)   no sustainable and participative management model for parks and reserves was
developed;
(h)   no training program was designed until after Project reorganization following mid-term
review.
16.   Significant amounts of money were invested in studies and technical assistance under the
DEF components but achieved few results, the main reasons being the lack of coherence among
the various interventions and the inability to integrate and capitalize on those resources.



4                                          Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
D.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   Project Effectiveness and Closing. The Project became effective on November 28, 1988,
i.e. eight months after signature. The closing date had been scheduled for January 31, 1996. Due
to major problems in project implementation, the components under DEF supervision were
drastically restructured at mid-term review in April 1992 and in March 1994 the decision was
made to transfer these components to the Environment Project. This transfer resulted in the
cancellation of SDR 1.3 million in November 1994 under Credit 1878-MAG as the Environment
Project (Credit 2125-MAG) was sufficient to continue funding of these components.
Strategically, this merger offered two advantages: (i) it regrouped all the environmental
operations funded by IDA under a single Project; (ii) it allowed DEF to be integrated into the
National Environmental Action Plan and become a likely implementing agency of the second
phase of the NEAP.
18.   After the merger, only the FANALAMANGA component remained active under Credit
1878-MAG. Proceeds under this component were exhausted in March 1995, leading to the
decision to close the Credit early. Nonetheless, effective closing of the Project and cancellation
of the undisbursed balance did not happen until November 3, 1995 due to delays on the
Borrower's part in the justification of the Special Account.
19.   Project Cost and Financing.  The real Project cost was US$14.1 compared to the
expected US$22.6 million at appraisal. IDA contribulted SDR US$4.8 million instead of US$7.0
million, Norway contributed US$0.05 million instead of US$2.0 million, and Switzerland
US$5.8 million instead of US$6.5 million. The Government contributed US$4.8 million instead
of the US$7.1 million expected at appraisal.
20.   This difference between real and expected-at-appraisal costs is due to the low level of
activities in the first years of the Project, the reorientation of the Project after mid-term review,
and the cancellation of significant portions of the IDA, Norwegian and Swiss funds in 1994.
21.   Disbursements.  The disbursement performance remained satisfactory at around 80
percent of original appraisal projections until 1993. Disbursements then slowed down in part due
to the reorganization of the DEF components following mid-term review. When the decision
was made to continue the DEF components under the Environment Project, the equivalent of
US$1.8 million was canceled (i.e. 25 percent of the initial allocation). FANALAMANGA, on
the other hand, almost exhausted its allocation.
22.  Implementation Problems.   Until 1994, DEF experienced serious difficulty in
implementing its parts of the Project, as much from a management as from a field activity point
of view. The main cause of the difficulty was recognized to be the excessive centralization at the
Director's level, the lack of delegation to the Project coordinator, and the lack of sector strategy.
However, implementation improved significantly with the change in Directors in 1994. Until
then, DEF proved inefficient at handling procurement diligently, thereby delaying the purchase
of equipment and recruitment of consultants.



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                                     5
23.   DEF also had to struggle with deficiencies in equipment and training. Although it wanted
to be directly in charge of operational activities, it lacked the means to achieve real impact with
the rural populations. The synergies that should have been developed with the other actors of
rural development also never materialized, with the exception of the research convention for
specific purposes with FOFIFA.
24.   Other implementation problems included the poor performance of the first coordinator,
the successive resignations by financial advisers, the difficulty to implement a monitoring and
evaluation system, the lack of integration of technical assistants and consultants, and the absence
of follow-up or outright rejection of their recommendations.
25.   The mid-term review mission in April 1992 concluded that the Project was creating an
extra burden on DEF instead of reinforcing it. This capacity problem was compounded by the
aging of its staff and the recruitment of some of the most dynamic members by the newly created
institutions of the Environmental Action Plan, also financed by IDA under Credit 2125-MAG.
26.   Since the mid-term review in April 1992, the reorganization of the Project and the change
in Directors at DEF, implementation and morale have improved significantly. By the time
DEF's activities were transferred to the Environment Project in 1994, the Project was rated
satisfactory for implementation performance standpoint (the development objective rating
remained mostly negative, as Table 12 in appendix indicates). All the activities initiated by the
mid-term review (a forest inventory, a new human resource policy and a new forestry policy) and
some new ones (the creation of new protected areas and the management of natural gazetted
forests) are currently developing at a satisfactory rhythm under the umbrella of the IDA-financed
Environment Project.
27.   FANALAMANGA, on the other hand, despite some problems in ensuring the succession
of the older executives by younger ones, was capable of reorienting its activities and achieving
most of the objectives assigned by the Project.
28.   Consultant Services. Little data is available on the impact of consultant services. As
explained earlier in this report, this deficiency is due to the absence of a monitoring and
evaluation system at DEF. DEF is only now installing such a system.
29.   Even though this judgment cannot always be quantified, it is clear that the various
consultants and technical assistants have brought little transfer of technology to DEF. As
mentioned above, their work was not strategically integrated into DEF's mainstream activities
and their recommendations sometimes turned out to be ill-adapted or were rejected outright.
30.   Macroeconomic Environment. The hiring freeze imposed on the civil service in 1991
negatively impacted on the components of the Project under DEF supervision by preventing the
hiring of new forestry engineers to replace those who reached retirement age. This problem was
compounded by the general uncertainty which prevailed in 1991: the DEF personnel largely
followed the general strike in the capital that lasted from May until December 1991, while
insecurity hindered follow-up missions to the provinces.



6                                            Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
E.    Project Sustainability
31.   The sustainability prospects for the DEF components as they were executed until mid-
term review are rather grim:
(a)   extension and rehabilitation methods proved too costly;
(b)   rural populations participated only marginally in the Project's activities;
(c)   there was little or no maintenance in reforestation perimeters;
(d)   fires destroyed vast amounts of reforested land;
(e)   rice fields were abandoned;
(f)   dams and fish ponds were destroyed by cyclones and never repaired.
32.   This dimension is reflected by the poor Project Development Objective Ratings (PDOR)
recorded after July 1990, as Table 12 indicates. With the exception of an improvement in
January 1991, PDOR were unsatisfactory. However, in December 1993, the decision was made
to upgrade the Project to "2" for it was judged that the reorganization of the Project would
contribute to achieving the development objectives and all measures were being taken by DEF to
carry through this reorganization. This judgment was reversed in April 1994 when renewed
delay in launching the three institutional studies was recorded and the PDOR fell back to "3".
33.   The DEF components, as they emerged out of the mid-term review and were later
transferred to the Environment Project, offer better prospects for sustainability although they are
still on-going: DEF badly needed capacity building in the fields of policy formulation,
development of human resources and knowledge of the potential of forests. The final results of
the research in these areas will be available by the end of the first phase of the Environment
Project (December 1996) and will represent the new bases for forestry work in Madagascar.
Several features already stand out: disengagement of the state and transfer of responsibilities to
the private sector or local populations, increased forest revenue by improved forest taxation
(auction-based concession system), and decentralization of forest management from the capital to
the regions. The application of these principles should help curb the degradation of natural
resources, including forests.
34.   FANALAMANGA's financial sustainability is still uncertain but prospects have
improved since the recovery of international market prices for pulpwood and woodpulp and the
establishment of several saw mills that are expected to absorb the whole production of the
enterprise. The self-financing capacity should become positive for the first time in 1996 and in
the year 2000 self-financing should exceed financing needs. This should be considered as a
positive development to attract investors if the enterprise were to be privatized. The long-term
viability of the plantations, however, will depend on the future of the enterprise.  The
Government of Madagascar will probably decide to divest itself to a certain extent; whether
through selling all of the assets or through ajoint venture remains to be seen. A full privatization



Part I. Project Implementation Assessment                                       7
might mean the disappearance of the plantations in the long run and the reversal of land to
pastoral and agricultural uses.
F.    Bank's Performance
35.   Project Concept and Design. An evaluation of the Project's objectives should highlight
that the absorptive and adaptive capacity of DEF was overestimated. The design of the DEF
components was too broad and represented a collection of pilot activities instead of a clear set of
programs with an underlying strategy. Not enough emphasis was placed on the institutional
reinforcement and too much on DEF's role in promoting pilot activities. DEF's capacity to
encourage and monitor, rather than control, private activities at the local level was neglected,
both in terms of human skills and material means.
36.   The broad goals for FANALAMANGA were correctly identified: to increase and sustain
the level of production and help the firm find buyers and investors. However, the resulting sales
levels were largely overestimated for the period 1988-1995. Also, as the present situation
testifies, the strategy of promoting charcoal making and the production of sawn wood (for
construction) and sawmill logs (for construction and furniture) was not the right one.
FANALAMANGA is planning to discontinue the production of charcoal and other secondary
products (fuelwood, resin) after 1995. In addition, current forecasts indicate that pulpwood will
make up 80 percent of total sales from 1995 onwards, relegating sawn wood and logs to places of
minor importance.
37.   Supervision.  As Table 11 in appendix indicates, the Project enjoyed intensive
supervision on the Bank's part (over 18 staffweeks per year on average between 1988 and 1995).
Yet despite this rather favorable record, the Project Development Objective Rating by and large
remained unsatisfactory from January 1994 until April 1994, when the agreement was reached to
close the Project by transferring the DEF component to the Environment Project (see Table 12).
This points to the inability of the Bank staff to cause the Project's impact to improve. The
composition of missions may shed some light on this failure. The skill mix reflects the
prevalence of foresters in each mission until the mid-term review, when the Project was rated "4"
on both Project Management Performance and Project Development Objectives: out of 18
mission members, 10 were foresters. In addition, the Project remained unsupervised for 8
months after the mid-term review and was rated "3" (still unsatisfactory) in December 1992. The
inclusion of an economist in supervision missions at an earlier stage than the mid-term review,
and closer supervision during the reorganization of the Project resulting from the mid-term
review might have helped retrofit the Project.
38.   The presence of a Task Manager handling all operational matters in the field from
October 1994 onwards helped the continuation of work programs albeit under the umbrella of the
Environment Project. As an indicator of performance, handling procurement decisions from the
Resident Mission allowed the turn-around time for routine procurement issues to drop to two
days on average from over 10 days prior to October 1994.



8                                           Part 1. Project Implementation Assessment
G.   Borrower's Performance
39.   Implementation. The DEF components suffered from severe administrative delays in
procurement (due to poor internal management and complex Government procedures). These
delays were scrutinized by the mid-term review mission but became even more apparent after the
DEF components were transferred to the Environment Project: DEF's contracts take a longer
time in materializing due to the long series of administrative authorizations required for
Government agencies. This issue was raised on several occasions, the latest one being the
Bank's Country Portfolio Performance Review in May 1995. It would seem reasonable to
request that Government agencies financed by IDA benefit from the same procedures as any
other implementing agencies, in accordance with the recommendations of the Bank's Second
Country Procurement Assessment Report for Madagascar of August 7, 1995.
40.   Until the mid-term review in April 1992, DEF also registered long delays in submitting
audit reports. Some audit reports did not meet the standard Bank formats, which prevented an
adequate information flow to IDA on the financial accountability of Project managers. Audits
formats were subsequently adapted to comply with Bank requirements and are now deemed
satisfactory.
41.   The Project was further harmed by frequent insufficiencies in Malagasy counterpart
funding and the malfunctioning of advance mechanisms for Project activities.
42.   FANALAMANGA's performance has been consistently better than DEF although the
enterprise encountered problems in managing its Special Account until Project closing (e.g.
replenishment requests were not filed in a timely manner, forcing the Bank to several recoveries
of the Special Account; the Special Account was not justified until very late, which explains why
the Project remained officially open for so long after the last disbursement).
43.   Finally, the Borrower's performance would have benefited from better coordination
between DEF and FANALAMANGA, both at the field (recycling of thinning waste for charcoal
making to supply Antananarivo) and administrative (management of funds) levels.
44.   Legal Covenants. As Table 10 in Appendix reveals, the Borrower met almost all of the
Legal Covenants except those (i) on audit requirements: formal deadlines and formats were not
respected during the first half of the project; and (ii) those which were affected by the
reorganization of the Project after mid-term review. Nevertheless, it should be noted that a Legal
Covenant may be met initially but the permanent nature of this Covenant is such that effective
meeting of it means systematic compliance with it throughout the Project. For instance,
Counterpart funding procedures were put in place at the beginning of the Project, in compliance
with Section 6.01 (c), but subsequently there were availability problems in counterpart funding.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
45.   FANALAMANGA. At a discount rate of 8 percent, the ERR is likely to equal 3 percent or
less, compared to the 55 percent estimated at appraisal. The two main reasons for these



Part IL Project Implementation Assessment                                     9
significantly-lower-than-expected results are (i) heavier operating costs, especially personnel
costs which represent around 30 percent of total costs; and (ii) quantities sold substantially lower
than expected, due to the poor quality of wood offered (originally, trees were planted for pulp
production) and poor felling techniques (felling is largely performed by unskilled contractors).
46.   However, thanks to (i) the expected increase in the total value of FANALAMANGA's
sales (FMG 2.6 billion in 1995 from FMG 0.9 billion in 1994 and optimistic forecasts beyond
1995), (ii) the unexpected importance of pulpwood (over 80 percent of total sales from 1995
onwards), and (iii) the favorable evolution in international market prices and world demand for
pulpwood and woodpulp, the enterprise is expected to secure good revenues after 1995 (sales of
FMG 9 billion per year at cruising speed compared to FMG 7 billion per year estimated at
appraisal).
47.   DEF. No ERR was calculated for the DEF components either at appraisal or completion.
I.    Future Operation
48.   DEF. The decision was made in 1994 that all environmental operations should be
concentrated under the Environment Project. The Environment Project is the first phase of the
15-year National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The second phase of the NEAP will
include forestry activities aimed at the sustainable exploitation of forest ecosystems and range
from the implementation of the new forestry legislation currently under finalization to the
execution of management plans for gazetted forests. Institutional reinforcement of DEF remains
essential but the difference will reside in the decentralized dimension. To be efficient, DEF
needs to be well trained and equipped at the local level. DEF should no longer manage activities
directly but encourage the private sector and local populations to take over productive activities
while limiting itself to a regulatory role.
49.  In the course of the second phase of the NEAP, the improvement in DEF's institutional
capacity will need to be monitored. The four main areas to be monitored are (i) the status of
human resources within DEF and in its provincial and district branches (number of staff, means
available, adequacy of skills/needs, etc.); (ii) the knowledge of the contents of forests; (iii) the
adoption and development of the recently drafted Forest Code; and (iv) the adoption and impact
of new forest management techniques based on rational exploitation and new pricing
mechanisms.
50.   FANALAMANGA. After 20 years of financing FANALAMANGA's establishment and
expansion (representing a US$30 million investment), IDA decided to stop its support. The
business and market situations described above should allow the enterprise to sustain itself
without foreign assistance and with minimal assistance from the Malagasy Government.
51.   FANALAMANGA needs to recenter its activities and give up transformation of pine logs
into finished products, carbonization and livestock production -- these activities being
unprofitable.  The enterprise also needs to invest heavily in a semi-mechanized felling
technology. The privatization option, already discussed in the Project Performance Audit Report



10                                           Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
for the Second Mangoro Forestry Project (1994), is feasible if the price is set right, but this
would probably lead to the disappearance of the plantations in the long run. Similarly, total
disengagement of the state and winding up FANALAMANGA would cause the forest to
disappear because of the pressure exerted by surrounding communities.  (Please refer to
Appendix C.)
52.   Indicators to be monitored in the future, which will determine the financial sustainability
and viability of the enterprise, include (i) the volumes and values of the sales of sawn wood and
pulpwood; (ii) the weight of personnel-related expenditures; (iii) the total area of the plantations;
(iv) the yield of the plantations; and (v) the state of the infrastructure (roads, equipment,
sawmills, etc.).
J.    Key Lessons learned
53.   The principal lessons learned from the Project can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Institutional reinforcement may be needed before a project can be executed. This is true
at the central and local levels. The central level must develop a strategy and be given the
human and financial means for this strategy; the local level must be given the means and
skills to execute the project or monitor the project execution. In this Project, DEF's
regional and sub-regional offices have by and large been left deprived of adequate means
to fulfill their tasks. This shortfall has been taken into account for the preparation of the
second phase of the Environment Project, which will carry on IDA assistance to DEF. In
the second Environment Project, DEF will no longer manage activities directly but
encourage the private sector and local populations to take over productive activities while
limiting itself to a regulatory role.
(b)   The Project coordinating unit must be given enough autonomy from political pressures,
especially if it is located within the Government. In the first years of this Project, the
coordinator was too dependent upon the DEF Director's goodwill.
(c)   Procurement work must be started early, preferably during the preparation phase, so that
commitments and disbursements can begin in the first year of the project. This has been
particularly true for this Project: DEF was not familiar with Bank guidelines and took a
long time to become operational. Specific procurement training during the preparation
phase would have helped overcome this deficiency.
(d)   Monitoring & evaluation should be the subject of attention right from the start of the
project and the M&E system should be based on systematic and reliable indicators. In
this Project, the M&E function has been neglected so that little quantified data is
available to form a judgment on the Project's impact and assess its economic results.
(e)    Close support of Bank staff, preferably staff resident in the country, is beneficial to
project execution. The Project implementing agencies have clearly expressed their view



Part I. Project Implementation Assessment                                         11
that project implementation was facilitated by the presence of a Task Manager at the
Resident Mission since October 1994.
(f)    Distortions may appear between Bank funded projects or agencies due to salary
discrepancies, e.g. between a Government agency and a private agency. The losses of
qualified personnel from DEF to ANGAP and the differences in salaries and travel
allowances between these two agencies often mar their working relationship.
(g)   The work of consultants and technical assistants must be integrated in project activities
and evaluated systematically to ensure correct transfer of technology.  This proved
difficult at DEF in the first years of the Project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
A.    Basic Information
Identification
1.    The main objective of this institution building project was to help the Water and Forests
Department (DEF) preserve ecosystems and biological species in Madagascar and assist in
implementing the national conservation strategy and forestry policy, adopted respectively in
1984 and 1985.
2.    Preparation of the third phase of the Mangoro Project, which has become one of the
components of the Forests Management and Protection Project, was based, firstly, on the
inability of parastatals to substitute for private enterprises in marketing and even in processing,
as demonstrated by the World Bank's experience in providing assistance to the agriculture sector;
and secondly, the questionable feasibility and rationale of the large-capacity woodpulp plant
originally planned.
3.    This section is based, among other documents, on the Evaluation Report (MAG 6994, 23
December 1987), the Credit Agreement (MAG 1878, 23 March 1987). The project was approved
by Interministerial Decree No. 6480/88 on 28 November 1988 and the credit was ratified by Decree
No. 88.024 on 24 August 1988 The project was completed in February 1995.
4.    Components:
(a)   PHASE ONE: 1988-1992: The Forests Management and Protection Project
comprised two components:
(i)    DEF Component
a.    Strengthening of DEF:  Training, forest management, private
reforestation, integrated planning of forest valleys, seeds  and
forestry stations, research, coordination of activities,
b.    Protection of natural forests and forest reserves: Andasibe natural
reserve, Ankarafantsika natural reserve, support for nature
protection service



Part II. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective                           13
(ii)   FANALAMANGA component
(b)   PHASE TWO: 1992 - August 1994
(i)    DEF Component: Following two self-evaluations in February and April
1991, and the review of mid-March 1992, the project's objectives were
redirected towards the following activities:
a.    Forestry policy
b.    National forestry inventory
c.    Human resources
d.    Classified forests
e.    Follow-up
f.    Research
g.    Coordination of activities
(ii)   FANALAMANGA Component
(c)   PHASE THREE: August 1994 - Completion
The World Bank supervision missions that took place in April and June of 1994
recommended that Credit 1878-MAG be canceled and the DEF component
activities be included in the First Environmental Program (PE 1) under the
Environmental Action Plan (PAE) financed by Credit 2125-MAG. Only the
FANALAMANGA component remained active under Credit 1878-MAG, while
the remainder of the GPF project (DEF component) became an integral part of the
DEF component of PEI financed by Credit 2125-MAG, with the following
activities:
(i)   Forestry policy
(ii)   National forestry inventory
(iii)  Human resources
(iv)   Classified forests
(v)   Follow-up
(vi)  Research
(vii)  Creation of protected areas



14                                  Part I1: Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
(viii) Coordination of activities
5.    Executing Agencies: DEF and FANALAMANGA
6.    Sponsoring Ministry:
(a)   1989-92: Ministry of Livestock Production and Water and Forests
(b)   1992-95: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, subsequently Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock, Water and Forests.
Financing
7.    The project was cofinanced by:
IDA                                SDR  2,200,000
Swiss cooperation                  SwF  10,400,000
Norway                             NKr 13,000,000
the Malagasy Government            FMG  7,250,000
B.    DEF component
Project Coordination
8.    For the component providing support to DEF, the project's administrative and financial
management was entrusted to a coordinating unit. This choice was dictated by the fact that the
Director of Water and Forests also directs the project and manages the Credit.
9.    Project Implementation
(a)   PHASE ONE: The project is divided into two components:
(i)   Institutional strengthening for DEF:
a.   training,
b.    forestry management,
c.    private reforestation,
d.   integrated planning of forest valleys,



Part II. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective                                15
e.    seeds and forestry stations,
f.    forestry research and project coordination.
(ii)   Natural forests:
a.    planning of the Ankarafantsika reserve,
b.    planning of the Andasibe reserve,
c.    strengthening of the nature protection service.
(iii)   Shortcomings in project design included underestimating the DEF human
resources problem in both qualitative and quantitative terms, and failing to
take into account the freeze on recruitment in the public service and the
lack of sufficient basic data on the forestry sector.
(iv)   Project start-up was slow because the project documents (appraisal report
and credit agreement) did not plan for either the start-up phase or the
activity planning and programming phase. The activities ought to have
begun immediately, whereas the items needed for execution (materials and
equipment) were to be obtained by tender, a process that required at least
one year to complete.  Project execution was poor owing to the
centralization of administrative and financial management, the lack of
support for decentralized services, the lack of follow-up and evaluation of
project activities, and poor motivation on the part of the agents involved.
Staff in the decentralized services had little interest in the project because
they did not feel involved in its activities. The counterpart funds granted
each year were always inadequate and never available on time.
Developments in the institutional framework (creation of new PAE
structures, such as ANGAP and ANAE) had rather adverse repercussions
on the coordination and mobilization of DEF staff and the distribution of
work.
(v)   Unwieldy contracting procedures both on the Malagasy side and in IDA
posed a major obstacle to smooth project functioning.
(vi)   Still, there were several positive areas:
a.    some materials were acquired
b.    field work was done, and
c.    DEF engaged in project staffing efforts.
(vi)  In view of the foregoing, two self-evaluations took place, in February and
June of 1991, and a mid-term project review was conducted in March and



16                                  Part IJ. Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
April of 1992. After the mid-term review, DEF and IDA agreed to restate
and redirect the project's objectives based on DEF's new mandate - the
setting of Malagasy forestry policy, preparation of a human resources
management plan, and performing a national forestry and ecological
inventory.
(b)   PHASE TWO
(i)    During the second phase of the project, work took place with various
partners, as follows:
a.   the drafting of forestry policy, with Intercooperation (Switzerland)
and ESSA-For&s;
b.    human resources management with Orgasys-Madagascar and
ONF-France;
c.   the national forestry and ecological inventory with DFS (Germany)
and Mamokatra
d.    forestry research with FOFIFA; as well as
e.    classified forests
f.   the creation of protected areas
(ii)   The two remaining activities were managed directly by DEF, namely:
a.    follow-up on DEF activities, and
b.    coordination of activities.
(iii)  This second phase, lasting a year and a half, was devoted mainly to
starting up the new activities, from preparation of tender documents
through  contract award  to  the procurement of materials.   For
disbursements, two special accounts were used: special account A for the
Swiss funding and special account B for the IDA funding. At the outset of
the project, the Treasury managed these special accounts through the
Central Bank, but payments were delayed by the fact that the accounts
were domiciled at Banque Nationale de Paris. The funds were then placed
in Malagasy commercial banks and the situation improved considerably.
Project accounts and direct payments are still managed by the Treasury.



Part II: Project Review From Borrower's Perspective                            17
Technical assistance
10.   National and particularly international technical assistance took an excessive share of the
project funds. Some consulting firms experience high turnover, resulting in a lack of continuity in
studies.
Relations with the financial organizations
11.  IDA and the Swiss cooperation supervised the project twice a year.  Norway was
represented by IDA in these supervision missions. During the first phase, a project officer was
appointed at the resident mission, which helped in relations and project functioning. During the
second phase, however, there was no one fulfilling that role and all decisions were taken in
Washington, with the resident mission merely passing on correspondence. This situation made
project implementation even more difficult. Since October 1994, a World Bank staff member has
been posted at the resident mission at Tananarive to monitor closely the execution of the PEl
Project activities. Too-frequent changes of task managers has resulted in disruptions in project
management, with each individual eager to do a better job and interpreting the directives of the
Bank's manuals in his own way.
C.    FANALAMANGA Component
Project Coordination
12.   The project's administrative and financial management was entrusted to the mixed
public/private company FANALAMANGA, which took over from the previous manager.
FANALAMANGA is in a weakened position after its restructuring, having had to terminate the
contracts of a large number of staff, some of whom were well-seasoned experts who had been with
the company since its founding, and firm advocates of the project.
Project Objectives
13.   Production of wood for various uses, from wood for energy and industrial use to sawnwood.
This means, first, undertaking silvicultural work of various intensities according to the fertility of
plantations; and second, increasing the rotation period from between 15 and 18 years to 25 years or
more;
14.   The sale of standing timber to the private sector to ensure the long-range financial
sustainability of the project. This new orientation, which limits the project's role in wood
production and the sale of its stands of trees, is quite frustrating for FANALAMANGA, which
has planted dozens of thousands of hectares over the course of more than a decade, with
acceptable results. The unstated reasons and questionable grounds for preventing the project
from taking an active part in further developing its production are denying it the opportunity of
boosting the value added resulting from its efforts, and thereby assuring its sustainability.



18                                   Part I1 Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
Project implementation
15.   From a technical standpoint, while observing the overall volume of work called for in the
appraisal, the project opted for a balanced annual distribution of work in quantitative terms to avoid
significant fluctuations in financial and human resources from one season to the next. The
objectives were adequately achieved in the first years of the project. The fact that sales were well
below projected figures led to a deliberate reduction in the scope of some activities, such as the
second thinning and heavy pruning exercises, to a level where they had no impact on the future of
the plantations. The project very soon found itself encumbered with a large quantity of cut timber
littering the felling ground. This posed a fire hazard and attracted parasites, and represented an
unacceptable waste of raw materials. On the sales front, results have so far been relatively
disappointing, and have not achieved the year-on-year improvements projected in the appraisal
report. The estimated sales increases cited in the appraisal report, though theoretically plausible,
were based on certain assumptions in terms of wood availability, potential opportunities in an
already tight local market under sluggish economic conditions, and the possibility of active private
enterprise involvement in a sector with a virtually total lack of professionalism. Steady and
increasing efforts at promotion were made, but results were slow in coming. This was quite
predictable, since the only likely outlet for such a large quantity of wood, most of it of woodpulp
quality, is the export market. These marketing problems cannot be resolved in the short term.
Moreover, other requirements, such as transport and port infrastructure, having a direct impact on
this type of activity were not properly met. Alarms have been sounded constantly since 1992
concerning the project's financial future. Those legitimate concerns have now been almost
completely dispelled. Units capable of absorbing over 80 percent of the potential yearly output of
sawnwood will come on stream beginning in the 1995-96 season. Also, without being unduly
optimistic, negotiations under way on pulpwood promise a positive outcome in 1996-97.
Management
16.   Two years before the outset of this phase, with the principal future activities of the project
known in general terms, training and some retraining of project staff began, and attempts were
made to gain a better knowledge of the techniques involved. However, the project still faces two
major problems.
17.   The requirement to dismiss a large part of the staff, stipulated in the appraisal report (a
reduction from 1,650 to 1,110, or one third), is creating an unprecedented erosion of morale and
a deteriorating work environment. Today the decision to stop planting has been shown to be
mistaken, given current demand for wood. Reducing the planting program substantially would
have led to more wood being available now and would have enabled a core of skilled
reforestation workers to be retained.
18.   The project's far from brilliant financial position, even after the period of staff cutbacks,
is causing the undesirable - and prejudicial to the project - voluntary departure of both highly
skilled and intermediate employees, mainly out of fear for their employment security. The
structure's adaptation to the new tasks took place very gradually.  Identification of the
development and production sectors from a technical and financial point of view, closely linked



Part II: Project Review From Borrower 's Perspective                               19
to sales volumes, did not actually take place until the end of this phase. Delays in the release of
counterpart funding each year, and the adverse effect of devaluation of the local currency in the
second half of the project, have acted as constraints on the proper use of the loan. The
borrower's performance in the course of project implementation has been poor compared to the
first two phases of the Mangoro project, for several reasons:
(a)    Achieving some of the objectives assigned is contingent in part on external factors
beyond its control.  These include the interest of private entrepreneurs in
processing the large volume of products produced in the form of charcoal and
sawnwood; national economic conditions; and external market opportunities.
(b)   Madagascar's recent social, political and economic situation has had quite an
adverse effect on project performance.
19.   Despite the difficulties and unforeseen events that have arisen, a constant attempt has
been made to reconcile technical imperatives with the project's at times straitened cash flow
situation.
20.   In the absence of a strong private sector presence, the project has had to cover too many
fronts. The training and promotion centers for charcoal production and processing have
inevitably become production units, despite their low capacity. The creation of a forestry
operating unit to boost sales and secure the technical success of the second thinning exercise,
ensuring future plantings, became essential. Although this development has not always been
accepted, it has been tolerated since it has made a significant contribution to improving the
project's financial position during this crucial phase.
21.   Although quite recently consideration was being given to terminating the project, and
despite some continuing and perhaps quite legitimate doubts, recent developments are reassuring
as to the project's future, through they imply undertaking an immediate and significant effort in
the coming 18 months to place the project on a more stable footing. Firm sales contracts have
been signed with private companies for sawnwood; two are operational and three in the process
of installation. A contract to supply 200,000 tons per year of pulpwood for chips has just been
signed with a private company, and two other firms have expressed interest in the remainder. By
1996, when new units are to come on stream, the project will have accounted for the entire
capacity of its plantations.
Relations with the World Bank
22.   The project has maintained satisfactory relations with the World Bank, despite differences
in opinion from time to time as to the role the project should play to better ensure its long-term
viability in view of realities prevailing in the country. Those responsible for the project hold
firmly, first, that they cannot assure its profitability if it is confined to planting and selling its
output in the form of standing timber; and second, that they will have to play some role in making
use of its output (forestry development and processing, even if only on a professional basis) to
promote development of the wood sector and to attract more private companies to the sector.



20                                   Part IT Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
23.   Frequent supervision missions have enabled problems to be identified and addressed in a
timely manner and, inter alia, the successive reallocations have enabled resources to be adapted
to needs according to the situation prevailing.
24.   Frequent changes in the members of supervision missions, particularly when total, do
however pose problems in understanding the project's evolution, or desired evolution, and its
environment, and in making optimal and timely decisions. The recent establishment of an
interlocutor in the field can only enhance relations between the borrower and the financial
institution.
25.   More attention needs to be paid to the initial appraisal of projects, particularly in
analyzing socioeconomic factors that have, or could potentially have, a significant and
irreversible impact ohnimplementation of the project and its future, such as fire hazards and
sources of energy available for processing.



IMPLEMELNTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FORES'TS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1878-MAG)
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1 Summary of Assessments
A.      Achievement of Objectives
Objectives                          Substantial      Partial            Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies        ___ l                                                   V
Sector policies                  l                          v
Financial objectives       _                                                                                l
Institutional development         _
Physical objectives                     _                                                                  l
Poverty reduction                  _
Gender issues                                                                                               l
Other social objectives                            _
Public sector management      =      _.__                                            ___
Private sector developmen.        _
B.      Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability              Likely                     Unlikely                  Uncertain
DEF                                                               V
FANALAMANGA                                                                                  V



22                                                                            Part III: Statistical Annexes
C.    Bank Performance
-Bank performance             Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory              Defic ient
Appraisal                J                         [
Supervision              ,                        [
D.    Borrower Performance
Borrower performance         Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                                                                                        l
Implementation                                    l_
Covenant compliance                                                                                l
Operation                                                                             V
E.     Assessment of Outcome
Assessment          Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory         Highly
Unsatisfactory
[II
Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Project Preparation Facilities
Credit title   Credit/Loan       Purpose      Date of signature    Status       Observations
number
Environment I   Cr.2125-MAG   Institution         May 1, 1990      On-going   Environment II
building; soil                                  under preparation
conservation;
biodiversity
protection                                                       l
Forestry I    Cr. 525-MAG   Plantation;      December 23, 1974    Closed
Ln 1065-MAG  silvo-industrial
complex                                                          l
Forestry 11   Cr.1 161 -MAG   Plantation;     October 29, 1981     Closed
study viability
of silvo-
industrial
complex                                                          l
Energy I     Cr.1787-MAG   Energy policy      August 20, 1980     Closed
formulation;
institutional
development                                                      l
Energy 11    PPF 805-MAG  Key reforms               n.a.         Negotiated  Some
and                                    on       conditionalities
infrastructure                      September  still to be met
improvement in                     12-16, 1994
energy sector



Part III: Statistical Annexes                                                                           23
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step in project cycle    Date planned   Date actual
Identification            n.a.               n.a.
Preparation Missions      n.a.      March 1984 - May 1985
Pre-appraisal Mission     n.a.          February 1987
Appraisal Mission         n.a.            June 1987
Negotiations               n.a.          12/14-18/1987
Staff Appraisal Report    n.a.            12/23/1987
-Board presentation        n.a.           02/16/1988
Signing                03/02/1988         03/23/1988
Effectiveness          11/02/1988         11/28/1988
Project completion     06/30/1995         03/31/1995
Final disbursement        n.a.            06/22/1995
Closing                01/31/1996         11/03/1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million)
Year           Estimate               Actual          Actual as % of
estimated
cumulative
year    cumulative    year    cumulative
1988                            1.4         1.4            n.a.
1989      2.0        2.0        0.6         2.0               100%
1990      1.4        3.4        0.6         2.6                76%
1991      0.6        4.0        0.6         3.2                80%
1992      0.7        4.7        0.6         3.8                81%
1993      0.7        5.4        0.6         4.4                81%
1994      1.5        6.9        0.8         5.2                75%
1995      0.1        7.0         0          5.2                74%
TOTAL      7.0         7.0        5.2        5.2*               74%
* US$1.8 million canceled



24                                                                             Part 111: Statistical Annexes
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators          Unit    Estimated   Estimated    Estimated at  (2) as %   (3) as %
at appraisal  at closing   cruising speed   of (l)  of (I)
______ _____ _____ ___ __   __  (1)  (2)   (3)
DEF
Forest Management         _
Forest inventoried           ha         71,000      25,050         28,500        35        40
Restituted maps              ha         20,000      10,000          15,000       50        75
Interpreted photos         number          270         174            174        64        64
Restituted photos          number          174          98             98        56        56
Satellite photos acquired    ha        200,000           0              0         0          0
Forest revenues              %              40           0             50         0        125
improvement
Seeds
Equipment regional centers   number          5           2              2        40        40
Rehab. of forestry stations    number        2           0              0         0          0
Seeds production            tons           11.8        6.5            11.4       55        100
Local market share           %              75          69             75        92        100
Research
Species adaptation trials  number          n.a.      2,900          4,000       n.a.       n.a.
ZODAFARB
ZODAFARB created           number            5           5              5       100        100
Plantation/year            number      321,000    250,000         250,000        78         78
Seedlings production/year    number    540,000    416,000         416,000        77        77
Sales price/seedling        FMG              2           5              5       250       250
Forest committee creation  number          n.a.         51             51       n.a.       n.a.
Opening of firebreaks        km            n.a.          4              4       n.a.       n.a.
Creation nurseries         number            5           5              5       100        100
Road rehabilitation          km             20           0              0         0          0
Forest tracks opened and     km              10          0              0         0          0
rehabilitated
AIVF
Sites tested               number            3           3              3       100        100
Firewood production        m3/year       14,000          0          2,000         0         14
Rice production             tons          3,000        126             50         4
Seedling production /year  number       50,000      43,750         40,000        87        80
Villages sensitized        number           56          22            n.a.       39       n.a.
Areas irrigated              ha           1,320         42             42         3          3
Technical support stations    number         7           3              3        43        43
created
Agroforestry                 ha            670         137            n.a.       20        n.a.
Trees planted              number          536          19            n.a.        4        n.a.
Pisciculture basins created    number      n.a.        237            n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
Tracks opened                km            n.a.         60            n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Roads maintained             km            n.a.         92            n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
Traditional beehives created   number      n.a.        137            n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Naturalforest protection                                    _
Boundary stones recovered    number         49          51             51       104        104
Firebreaks opened and        km            272          73             85        26        31
maintained
Tracks opened and            km            105          48             60        46         57
maintained



Part IM. Statistical Annexes                                                                          25
Indicators          Unit    Estimated   Estimated    Estimated at  (2) as %   (3) as %
at appraisal  at closing   cruising speed   of (1)  of (l)
l ________________________              (1)        (2)           (3)
Air strips created          km             0.5        0.5            n.a.     100       n.a.
Nurseries created         number            3           3            n.a.     100       n.a.
Seedling production /year    number   300,000      60,000         80,000       20        27
Villages sensitized       number           30          21           n.a.       70       n.a.
Tourist tracks maintained   km             42          42            42       100       100
FANALAMANGA
Planting                l         l_l_l_l_l
Management units            ha          65,500     43,180         61,000       66        93
Pruning I                   ha          15,000     12,225         15,000       81       100
Pruning 11                  ha         25,000      11,482         25,000       50       100
Thinning                    ha          34,285     23,037         34,285       67       100
Replanting                  ha           1,366      2,040           n.a.      150       n.a.
Salvage cutting             ha          11,065      7,925         11,065       79       100
Permanent inventory         ha           9,785      8,254          9,785       84       100
Infrastructure
Road improvement            km             26          17            26        65       100
Road maintenance            km            416         369           416        89       100
Firebreaks                  km            950         636           950        67       100



26                                                                            Part III: Statistical Annexes
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated at  Estimated at               Notes
I Appraisal     Closing
DEF                                                                                       l
LOCAL TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                                                                                l
IDA Financing             54 m/y       40 m/y  Forest and park management
__                  17 m/y        17 m/y  Research
EXTERNAL TECHNICAL               6 m/y        5.5m/y  Financial Adviser
ASSISTANCE
LOCAL TRAINING                  71 m/y        10 m/y  Work planning; inventory techniques;
forest exploitation; tree nurseries;
microhydraulics; farmers' organizations;
extension monitoring & evaluation; park
guarding; forest policy
TRAINING ABROAD                 24 m/y        2 m/y  Management; extension (8 executives
trained)
FANALAMANGA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   |               j
IDA financing                      n.a.       2 m/m  Completion Forestry 11
IFC                                n.a.       3 m/m  Economic feasibility of pine log export
UNDP/FAO                           n.a.      67 m/m  Carbonization; Charcoal-making;
Forestry management; Cartography and
forest inventory; Marketing; Recycling
of thinning waste
LOCAL TRAINING
Project management                 n.a.     565 m/d  Secretarial skills; Computer science;
Communications and organization
Civil engineering                  n.a.      80 m/d  Road works
Maintenance                        n.a.     300 m/d  Engines and injectors
Silviculture                       n.a.     465 m/d  Thinning and felling
Product value improvement          n.a.     1740 m/d  Carbonization; Timber sawing and
. _________________________  ____________   ____________   d ry in g
TRAINING ABROAD                    n.a.           0
m/d =  Man day
m/m =  Man month



Part III: Statistical Annexes                                                                            27
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                      Purpose                      Status                  Impact of study
DEF                      _
Protected areas planning    Propose management plans for    2 months - Completed  Creation of 2 reserves
Ankarafantsika and Andasibe
Forest inventory         Propose an inventory technique    2 months - Completed  Method is difficult as it requires
for DEF                                                several teams, a lot of time and a
very thorough training for the staff
Forest fees              Improve the forest fee system  3 months - Completed     Increase in forest revenues
Forestry sector planning    Define an investment plan and a   3 months - Completed  The consultant trained his
methodology to prepare the                             counterpart, whose capacity has
Public Investment Program (PIP)                        improved since in preparing the
PIP for DEF
Monitoring and           Set up an M&E system for DEF   4 months - Incomplete    The system proposed was
Evaluation (M&E)                                        due to project           complex but helped the M&E staff
restructuring in 1992   improve the capacity. Another
M&E is being installed at DEF.
Infornation system       Reorganize the information     5 months - Complete      Beginning of an improvement in
system at DEF                                          the velocity of information but
disturbed by the political trouble
in 1991
Microhydraulics          Propose a work methodology for  7 months - Complete     Rehabilitation of rice fields,
the AIVF component                                     adoption of the technique
Computerization          Computerize information        3 months - Incomplete    The first mission report was never
systems at DEF                                         approved
Community forest         Consolidate and promote forest   Contract signed but    n.a.
management               management by communities      canceled after mid-term
review
Extension                Promote school-villages in     Contract signed but      n.a.
extension                      canceled after mid-term
review
Forest management        Forest management planning     Contract negotiated but    n.a.
canceled after mid-term
review
Development of the       Support farmers in the         Contract negotiated but    n.a.
peripheral zones of forests  productive zones around    canceled after mid-tern
and reserves             protected areas                review
Sociology for forest     Propose appropriate            Bidding documents under  n.a.
exploitation             methodologies for forest       preparation but canceled
exploitation                   after mid-term review
Reforestation            Set up a technical training plan    Canceled           n.a.
for ZODAFARB
Rural sociology for      Propose appropriate            Canceled                n.a.
ZODAFARB                 methodologies for ZODAFARB
_ _ _ _  _  _  _~       ~~~                       ~ ~ -  I    _ _ _ _ _  I                                I____
FANALAMANGA
None                    =n.a                            na.                      n.a



28                                                                               Part Il.l Statistical Annexes
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate         Actual estimate
Item         Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs            costs    costs
DEF                    2.3       5.5     7.8      1.0      4.8     5.8
Reinforcement
Natural Forest          1.4      4.7     6.0      0.3      0.9      1.2
Protection
FANALAMANGA            3.9       2.5     6.4      3.5      3.6    7.1
TOTAL                  7.6      12.7    20.3      4.8      9.3    14.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate         Actual estimate
Source         Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs            costs    costs
IDA                      0.7       6.3    7.0      0.3      4.5    4.8
Swiss Cooperation        1.2       5.3    6.5      1.0      4.8    5.8
Norwegian                0.0       2.0    2.0      0.0      0.0    0.0
Cooperation
Government               6.5       0.6    7.1      4.8      0.0    4.8
TOTAL                    8.4      14.2   22.6      6.1      9.3   15.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits, (FANALAMANGA only)*
Please refer to Appendix B
Indicators             Estimate at           Actual at            Estimate at
appraisal            closing           cruising speed
Average production of                                                               3
sawn wood                       162,000 m3/year      676 m3/year           90,000 m3/year
Sales                      6,968*106 FMG/year          2,628*106      9,000* 106FMG/year
Economic rate of return
(100% of sales attributed                 55%                n.a.                  13.8%
to third Project, @ 8%
discount rate)          l_l_l___
ERR (50% sales)                            n.a.              n.a.                     3%
LERR (41% sales)                            n.a.              n.a.                     0%
* No ERR was calculated for the DEF components at appraisal or completion



Part III: Statistical Annexes                                                                            29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant                                   Topic                              Status
Development Credit Agreement
Section 2.02 (c)                  Opening of Special Account                               Met
Section 3.01 (c)                  Cause and enable FANALAMANGA to execute Part             Met
C of the Project                                                     l
Section 3.01 (d)                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement with FANALAMANGA               Met
Section 4.01 (a)                  DEF's Accounting, Reporting and Audits            Met but audit report
formats judged
unsatisfactory in the
first half of the Project
Section 6.01 (b)                  Abrogation of Arrete No. 4 172/85 pertaining to the      Met
free disposition of seedlings                                        l
Section 6.01 (c)                  Counterpart funding procedures put in place and    Met but sporadic
initial deposit for Parts A and B               counterpart availability
problems occurred
thereafter
Section 6.01 (d)                  Conversion into equity of FMG 27.8 billion of the        Met
debt of FANALAMANGA to the Borrower                                   l
Section 6.02 (a)                  Project Agreement ratified                               Met
Schedule 1.2 (b) (1)              Appointment of project coordinator                       Met
Schedule 1.2 (b) (2)              Staffing plan of DEF                                     Met
Schedule 1.2 (b) (3)              AVF and Savoka project activities merged into            Met
AIVF
Schedule 1.2 (b) (4)              Contract between DEF and DVA                     Met but inoperational
Schedule 1.2 (b) (5)              Contract between DEF and FOFIFA                          Met
Schedule 1.2 (c)                  Decree creating the Andasibe National Park               Met
Schedule 1.2 (d) (1)              Sales service established at FANALAMANGA                 Met
Schedule 3.3                      Job descriptions for natural forest program staff        Met
Schedule 3.4                      Review of annual work plans                       Met but usually later
than November 30
Schedule 3.5 (a)                  Action program for changes in the forest revenue  Component canceled
l ___________________________________    system                                     after mid-term     review
Schedule 3.5 (b)                  Implementation of action program for changes in the    Component canceled
forest revenue system                            after mid-term review
Schedule 3.6                      New seed pricing tables                           Component canceled
after mid-term review
Schedule 3.7                      Approval of IDA to the Fonds Forestier National   Component canceled
after mid-term review
Schedule 3.9                      Selection of participants for overseas study      Component canceled
after mid-term review
Schedule 3.10                     Mid-term review program                                  Met
Project Agreement
Section 3.03                      FANALAMANGA to take out insurance                        Met
Section 4.01                      FANALAMANGA to maintain accounting,                      Met
reporting and audits



30                                                                                        Part III: Statistical Annexes
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (expressed in staffweeks)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   TOTAL
Preparation    1.3   2.6   8.2   38.6  45.1    1.5                                                                97.3
Appraisal                                 18.1   33.1  ;       =                                                  51.2
Negotiations                                     14.1 .       .                                                   14.1
Supervision                                      13.2  20.8   11.4  26.9   34.5   11.9   14.7   11.6             145.0
ICR                                               2.6                       _                            3.0       5.6
TOTAL          1.3   2.6   8.2  38.6  63.2   64.5   20.8   11.4  26.9   34.5  1 1.9  14.7   11.6   3.0    313.2
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Number  Specialized staff       Project         Project
Month/Year         of            skills       Management  Development              Types of problems
persons     represented      Performance       Objective
Rating          Rating
March 88      n.a.    n.a                      I               I
June 88     n.a.    n.a.                     I               1         Delayed effectiveness
December 88      n.a.    n.a.                      2               1         Excessive centralization at
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   D E F
March 89       2      FA,F                     2               1         Procurement delays,
Accounting and budgeting at
____I_I_I_                                                                       DEF
November 89        1      FA                       2               2       |
July 90      6      FA,F,F,F,F,OO            3               3       |                              I
January 91      4       FA,F,F,F                2               2
August91       n.a.    n.a.                     2               3
December91         2      F,YP                     3               3
March-April 92       3      F,AE,IB                  4               4         DEF: Centralization,
(Mid-term                                                                 Bureaucratization, Lack of
Review)                                                                 strategy, Lack of priorities,
Poor level of personnel, Low
absorptive capacity, Lack of
counterpart funding
FANALAMANGA: lack of
| aggressive marketing
December 92        1      AE                       3               3         Commitment and
implementing capacityof
DEF
April 93      1      AE                       3               3
September 93       1      AE                       2               3       1                               11
December 93        1      AE                       2               2        _                             11
April 94      2      AE,OA                    2               3       1                              11
June 94      3       AE,YP,OA                2               U
FA=    Financial Analyst                            YP=    Young Professional                  00=    Operations Officer
F=      Forester                                    AE=    Agricultural Economist
IB=     Institution Building Specialist            OA=    Operations Analyst



APPENDIX A: Comments by the Borrower
Introductory note:
This is the English translation of the November 20, 1995 letter of the Director of the Waters and
Forests Department (DEF), Henri FINOANA, to the World Bank presenting the Borrower's
reaction to the draft ICR.
Comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report for the Forests Protection and
Management Project:
Reminder on the situation in which the Project was launched:
a)    This was the first project with external funding ever managed by DEF.
b)    DEF had to become familiar with the administrative and financial procedures of the
World Bank and the Malagasy Government, in particular with regard to procurement. As
a consequence, all the goods which had to be procured (vehicles, buildings,
miscellaneous equipment, consulting services) were not acquired until the mid-term
review.
c)    In the interim period, DEF had to work with the available material and human means.
d)    The second half of the period leading to the mid-term review was marred by a general
strike which lasted through the end of 1991.
The above situation explains why DEF has not been able to achieve the results expected
initially. Institutional support did not really start until after mid-term review. Thanks to the
experience accumulated during the first half and above all since mid-term review, the Forests
Protection and Management Project has acquired the foundations on which to build better project
management:
a)    DEF has now acquired some experience in project management.
b)    DEF has acquired some capital goods.
c)    DEF has benefited from the studies carried out since mid-term review.
d)    Support from the World Bank Resident Mission benefits the whole Environment Project
(EPI).



32                                                                     Appendix A
e)    DEF's integration in the EPI has alleviated the burden of public procurement in
accordance with Malagasy Government rules (DEF no longer relies on the Commission
d'Appel d'Offres nor the Commission Centrale des Marches).
f)    The opening of Special Accounts with local primary banks has facilitated the use of
fimds.



APPENDIX B: Economic Analysis of FANALAMANGA
Tables 13-15 hereafter calculate the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the
FANALAMANGA Mangoro plantation under three scenarios, each time with a discount rate of 8
percent. The first scenario (Table 13) assumes that all the sales are attributable to the present
third Project, i.e. the economic value is the same as the financial value. The second scenario
(Table 14) assumes that the economic value of the sales is only 50 percent of the financial value.
The third scenario (Table 15) tests the level of economic benefits that would make the ERR equal
to zero. Data were provided by Mr. Bernard Lapeze (Forestry Specialist, Consultant) and Mr.
Guy Andriantsara (Economist, Consultant).
First scenario (Table 13)
(a)   Costs comprise the investments (including replacements) plus operating costs and
working capital. Most capital goods being imported and subject to taxes of around 40
percent, the investments presented here equal 60 percent of the nominal values provided
by FANALAMANGA. 30 percent of the operating costs being made up of personnel
charges, the opportunity cost of unskilled labor in the Moramanga region estimated at 51
percent at appraisal was applied to 30 percent of the operating cost figures provided by
FANALAMANGA.
(b)   Financial benefits equal total sales times the contract price per cubic meter of sawn wood
(FMG 36,000 from 1995 onwards) and pulpwood (around FMG 10,000 from 1995
onwards) sold by FANALAMANGA to the various sawmills. These prices are in line
with the reference price for sawn wood calculated by Bernard Lapeze in his evaluation of
FANALAMANGA: A cubic meter of standing pine wood should be bought from
FANALAMANGA at around FMG 30,000 (at an exchange rate of FMG 700 per French
Franc) if it is to be sold at the average price of FF 930 to a European factory and
transformed into pallets or packing crates. This price of FMG 30,000 takes all treatment
and handling costs and a 15 percent profit margin for the sawmill into account.
(c)   All prices are adjusted for inflation and converted into millions of 1995 FMG (source:
consumer price index for Madagascar, International Monetary Fund, Intemational
Financial Statistics).
Under this scenario, the ERR equals 14 percent compared to the 55 percent estimated at
appraisal. The two main reasons for these significantly lower results are: (i) heavier operating
costs, especially personnel costs which represent around 30 percent of total costs; and (ii)
substantially lower sales volumes than expected at appraisal.  These lower-than-expected
volumes (e.g. 90,000 m of sawn wood per year at cruising speed instead of 162,000 m3 per year
expected at appraisal) are due to the poor quality of wood offered (originally, trees were planted
for pulp production), poor felling techniques (felling is largely performed by unskilled
contractors), and forest fires.



34                                                                      Appendix B
Nevertheless, from a financial perspective, thanks to (i) the expected increase in
FANALAMANGA's sales (FMG 2.6 billion in 1995 from FMG 0.9 billion in 1994 and
optimistic forecasts beyond 1995), (ii) the increasing importance of pulpwood (over 80 percent
of total sales from 1995 onwards), and (iii) the favorable evolution in international market prices
and world demand for pulpwood, the enterprise seems viable.
Table 13 assumes that all the benefits can be attributed to the present third Project while
the investment and operating costs incurred during the first two Projects in establishing the
plantations are considered as sunk costs. This unrealistic assumption is tantamount to saying that
without the present third Project, the plantations would vanish without producing any benefits
whatsoever, totally destroyed by fires or cyclones.
Second scenario (Table 14)
Although it is difficult to quantify the incremental economic benefits accruing to the third
Project alone, Table 14 reflects a more likely hypothesis: only 50 percent of the benefits accrue
to this Project. In other words, 50 percent of the benefits would be foregone without the third
Project: 50 percent of the forest would disappear while 50 percent would still be s6ld by the
enterprise or used by local communities for alternative purposes such as construction poles and
charcoal making. In these conditions, the ERR of the third Project drops to 3 percent.
Third scenario (Table 15)
Table 15 presents a "break-even" analysis of the reduction of economic benefits which
would result in the ERR of the third Project becoming negative. For this to occur, the Project
would have to be responsible for no more than 41 percent of the total benefits, i.e. 59 percent of
the total benefits would still be collected by society by the year 2012 through sales of wood or
alternative usages, even in the absence of the third Project. This scenario is not unrealistic. If
indeed the third Project allowed no more than to conserve and sell 40 percent of the plantations
and if 60 percent of the benefits resulting from the sale or alternative usage of the plantations
would have accrued to society anyway without the third Project, even attributing all the costs
related to establishing the plantations to the two prior Projects, the third Project has a negative
impact.
Based on an ERR of 3 percent or less, the incremental investment in the
FANALAMANGA Mangoro plantation turns out to be even less profitable than during the first
and second Projects, which together achieved an ERR of 7 percent (confirmed by the Project
Performance Audit Report for the second Project in 1994). The ERR for the three Bank-funded
investments in the Mangoro plantation together must therefore be negligible, if not negative.



Appendix B                                                                     35
Table 13
Calculation of the NPV and ERR for the FANALAMANGA component (Third Project only)
(100% of benefits accruing, in millions of 1995 FMG)
Year  Gross Benef  Invest Op Costs Wrk Cap    Costs Net Benef    Disc NB
(1)    (2)      (3)      (4)   (5)=(2)+(3)+(4)  (B)=(1)-(5)
1 1988       212  -3,545  -2,371        0   -5,916   -5,703     -5,281
2 1989       567    -992  -2,511        0   -3,503   -2,937-    -2,518
3 1990       704  -1,255  -2,473        0   -3,728   -3,024     -2,401
4 1991       829  -1,431   -2,670       0   -4,101   -3,272      -2,405
5 1992       831    -923  -3,395        0   -4,319   -3,488      -2,374
6 1993      1,298    -680  -1,747       0   -2,427   -1,129       -711
7 1994      1,429    -594  -2,161       0   -2,755   -1,326       -774
8 1995      2,628    -822  -1,897     -765   -3,484    -856       -463
9 1996     5,640       0   -2,763     -418  -3,181    2,459       1,230
10 1997     8,136    -900  -2,912      -54  -3,866    4,270        1,978
11 1998     8,388    -990  -3,011      -24  -4,025    4,363       1,871
12 1999     9,000  -1,200  -3,011        0   -4,211    4,789      1,902
13 2000     9,324       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    6,313      2,321
14 2001     9,681       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    6,670      2,271
15 2002    10,073       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    7,062      2,226
16 2003    10,504    -300  -3,011        0   -3,311    7,193      2,100
17 2004     10,978      0   -3,011       0   -3,011    7,967      2,153
18 2005     11,500      0   -3,011       0   -3,011    8,489      2,124
19 2006     12,074      0   -3,011       0   -3,011    9,063      2,100
20 2007     12,705      0   -3,011       0   -3,011    9,694      2,080
21 2008     13,400      0   -3,011       0   -3,011   10,389      2,064
22 2009     14,164    -300  -3,011       0   -3,311   10,853       1,996
23 2010     15,004      0   -3,011       0   -3,011   11,993      2,043
24 2011     15,929      0   -3,011       0   -3,011   12,918      2,037
25 2012     16,946      0   -3,011    1,261   -1,750   15,196     2,219
Total    201,943  -13,933  -70,066      0  -83,999  117,944     17,789
NPV      17,789
ERR      13.84%
d       0.08



36                                                                      Appendix B
Table 14
Calculation of the NPV and ERR for the FANALAMANGA component (Third Project only)
(50% of benefits accruing, in millions of 1995 FMG)
Year  Gross Benef  Invest Op Costs Wrk Cap    Costs Net Benef    Disc NB
(1)     (2)     (3)      (4)   (5)=(2)+(3)+(4)   (6)=(1)-(5)
1 1988       106  -3,545   -2,371        0   -5,916   -5,809     -5,379
2 1989       283    -992   -2,511        0   -3,503   -3,220     -2,761
3 1990       352  -1,255  -2,473         0   -3,728   -3,376     -2,680
4 1991       414  -1,431   -2,670        0   -4,101    -3,687    -2,710
5 1992       415    -923   -3,395        0   -4,319   -3,903     -2,656
6 1993       649    -680   -1,747        0   -2,427   -1,778     -1,120
7 1994       715    -594  -2,161         0   -2,755   -2,041      -1,191
8 1995      1,314    -822   -1,897    -765   -3,484   -2,170     -1,173
9 1996      2,820      0   -2,763     -418   -3,181     -361       -181
10 1997     4,068    -900   -2,912      -54   -3,866     202          94
11 1998     4,194    -990   -3,011      -24   -4,025     169          72
12 1999     4,500  -1,200   -3,011        0   -4,211     289         115
13 2000     4,662       0   -3,011        0   -3,011    1,651        607
14 2001     4,841       0   -3,011        0   -3,011    1,829        623
15 2002      5,037      0   -3,011        0   -3,011    2,025        638
16 2003      5,252    -300   -3,011       0   -3,311    1,941        567
17 2004      5,489      0   -3,011        0   -3,011    2,478        670
18 2005     5,750       0   -3,011        0   -3,011    2,739        685
19 2006     6,037       0   -3,011        0   -3,011    3,026        701
20 2007      6,353      0   -3,011        0   -3,011    3,341        717
21 2008      6,700      0   -3,011        0   -3,011    3,689        733
22 2009      7,082    -300   -3,011       0   -3,311    3,771        694
23 2010      7,502      0   -3,011        0   -3,011    4,491        765
24 2011      7,965      0   -3,011        0   -3,011    4,953        781
25 2012      8,473      0   -3,011    1,261   -1,750    6,723        982
Total    100,972  -13,933  -70,066      0  -83,999   16,972     -10.407
NPV     -10,407
ERR       3.09%
d       0.08



Appendix B                                                                     37
Table 15
Calculation of the NPV and ERR for the FANALAMANGA component (Third Project only)
(41% of benefits accruing, in millions of 1995 FMG)
Year  Gross Benef  Invest Op Costs Wrk Cap    Costs Net Benef    Disc NB
(1)    (2)      (3)      (4)   (5)=(2)'(3)+(4)  (6)=(1)-(5)
1 1988        87  -3,545  -2,371        0   -5,916   -5,828     -5,397
2 1989       232    -992  -2,511        0   -3,503   -3,271      -2,804
3 1990       289  -1,255  -2,473        0   -3,728   -3,440     -2,731
4 1991       340  -1,431   -2,670       0   -4,101   -3,761      -2,765
5 1992       341    -923  -3,395        0   -4,319   -3,978     -2,707
6 1993       532   -680  -1,747         0   -2,427   -1,895      -1,194
7 1994       586   -594  -2,161         0   -2,755   -2,169      -1,266
8 1995      1,077    -822  -1,897     -765   -3,484   -2,407     -1,300
9 1996     2,312       0   -2,763     -418  -3,181     -869       -434
10 1997     3,336    -900  -2,912      -54  -3,866      -530       -246
11 1998     3,439    -990  -3,011      -24  -4,025      -586       -251
12 1999     3,690  -1,200  -3,011        0   -4,211     -521       -207
13 2000     3,823       0   -3,011       0   -3,011      812        298
14 2001     3,969       0   -3,011       0   -3,011      958        326
15 2002     4,130       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    1,119        353
16 2003     4,307    -300  -3,011        0   -3,311      996        291
17 2004     4,501       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    1,490        403
18 2005     4,715       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    1,704        426
19 2006     4,950       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    1,939        449
20 2007     5,209       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    2,198        472
21 2008     5,494       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    2,483        493
22 2009      5,807   -300  -3,011        0   -3,311    2,496        459
23 2010     6,152       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    3,141        535
24 2011     6,531       0   -3,011       0   -3,011    3,520        555
25 2012     6,948       0   -3,011    1,261   -1,750    5,198       759
Total     82,797  -13,933  -70,066      0  -83,999   -1,203    -15.483
NPV     -15.483
ERR      -0.25%
d       0.08



APPENDIX C: Evaluation of FANALAMANGA
Introductory note:
These are the salient points of the report written by Mr. Bernard Lapeze (Forestry Consultant) at
the outcome of his September 1994 mission. His mandate was to assess the potential for
FANALAMANGA to develop into a self-financing enterprise and make recommendations to this
end before the end of 20 years of World Bank support.
Plantations: pine tree plantations are of mediocre quality (slow growth and small dimensions).
The oldest plantations require urgent exploitation. 59,000 ha out of 84,000 ha can be exploited.
Roads: the road network is well developed and allows access to all plots. However, the quality
of roads must be improved to facilitate exploitation.
Bridges: they are in more or less good state and need to be reconstructed every 8-10 years.
Buildings: too many of them; they cannot all be maintained properly.
Equipment: in more or less good state.
Financial situation: FANALAMANGA has only been able to survive thanks to aid it cannot
pay back. Operating expenses (excluding inventories) amount to FMG 3 billion, of which FMG
930 million are personnel costs.
Operations: Timber exploitation is wholly manual, and ensured by either FANALAMANGA
staff or small traders contracting out the actual exploitation to unqualified workers. Exploitation
is never systematic and only the biggest trees are logged in a creaming fashion. Forests are
impoverished since only the small trees are left standing. The most realistic solution is to adopt a
semi-mechanized operations strategy: labor intensive but heightened productivity and more
rational management. This will represent a significant investment which FANALAMANGA
would need to undertake soon (FMG 1.7 billion over 5 years).
Wood   transformation:      Three  sawmills  (PINE   EXPORT,  MORAMANGA,
FANALAMANGA) have been established and three others are expected to settle down
(ARCHIMBAUD, MARQUE, ZACHARIE).
Wood markets: Local market: very thin for coniferous trees. Export markets: these are the only
real outlets for the above sawmills. But the pine quality only allows to market low added value
sawn woods. The most important customers will probably be found in neighboring Reunion,
Mauritius and the Comoros. However, these countries cannot absorb the total production of the
Moramanga region sawmills. More remote possibilities exist in Spain, Italy, Egypt, Israel, Saudi
Arabia and Japan. Freight costs will determine whether exports to these countries are feasible.



Appendix C                                                                    39
As for pulpwood and sawmill waste products, which represent increasingly important volumes,
these can only be consumed locally for technical and economic reasons.
What future for FANALAMANGA? FANALAMANGA's survival depends on the industries
which will settle down and purchase its wood. At the time being, none of them are working up
to their capacity.
Since 1984, the change in objectives has forced FANALAMANGA to look for outlets other than
pulpwood (sawn wood, charcoal and resin harvest) and to change its silvicultural approach.
FANALAMANGA's staff have adapted perfectly to these new techniques. Transformation has
also been promoted to recycle thinning products. Charcoal is good in that it cleans up the forest
after thinnings but its traditional exploitation is not profitable .
Winding up FANALAMANGA would cause the forest to disappear in the medium run.  -
All activities related to wood transformation, carbonization and livestock production must be
given up and, if possible, sold.
Staff must be cut to 300 people maximum (from 1,130 currently) and assigned to the field.
If the decision was made to stop FANALAMANGA's operations, the firm could be privatized.
Price would determine the demand. However, selling the forest in blocks would lead to its
disappearance in the long run.






A2-                                     4A                                     41&                                     4'8                                     So
12 2;                                                                                                                                                                                   12--
Antsirananm
MADAGASCAR
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                       ' <
TROISIEME PROJET FORESTIER                                                                                                   ) 4-
FZ,\',  PROTECTED AREA                                        PAVED ROADS                                           o        I    (       4
AJRE PROTEGEE                                     ROUTES GOUDRONNEES                                  Andocn 7iV -,                         + Vohi-ro-o
=Z    MANGORO PLANTATION                    ____  ALL-WEATHER ROADS                                          p     t-
g   PLANTA ION DU MANGORO                         ROUTES ACCESS9BLES EN TCJUrE SAISON                        4    Ansbonio                 -
FOREST MANAGEMENT 
A       GESTION FGRETS                           I         RAIWAYS                                                            ANTSIRANANA 
ZODA   B                            ~~~~CHE4MIN DE PER-
ZODAPARB                                   v      AJRPORTS                                                                                                             14R
INTEGRATED FOREST vAILEY DEVELOPMENT              AROORT                                                                      '                    Sobovo
AMENAGEMENT INTEGRE DES VAI LEES                  RIVERS
PFORESTIERES                                    RWERES                                              JBeabno                                  7
-   FORESTSAoIoo                                             '-
RN VI    NATURAL RESERVE                                    FORErS
RESERV NATLURELIE
PN      NATIONAL PARK                                     UMITSANY ROJNDARIES                    -  AnAsoBlnb             .ntalaha
EAM/TS DES PARITANY
PARC NATIONAL                                                                                                                                  +
INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES       -         r                     Befondrono
UM4TES DETATS                                      .
Mahalanqo  +
KILOMETERS 0       5D       100      150     200                             '              "' ,                                       r vtsr
} O  MItESO   50   Oo                   -    *yS              *v?          F       Vlg    . ^                \Mandrltsoro        Mononor
I                -       - -'  !                               Mo  o  f  mp.                        A
t                          ~~~~~~~Ambd60;  ' Y                                           U    
BesoIonmby I          t                        Bony.
MILES 0  5             ioo~~0 
/   X                _eSfJ4 AMoev,ol,ono  r,binNl         TToon                  i    n      i    t     Nos Sen Mane
/   S                                    I~~~~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~Androrny  And iloneno; s o> j 
et,                           |          IAndrlomeno    /X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >   S ~~Fenoorivo-Alsinonrano
r  i   rJMo of enobe   f          \tV              X           J JII(Vdvatnwr)
180                     ~~~Mo,nI,ronrt.   0\                                                                          TGAMASINAJ   lWok                                        18
Jt    -s  \  TsirjmandKly   N T A N A N A            k       X      /~TomaSin
t  a   FawljakamanarFos  Vohibgna~~~~Vohbinny
\ \ 8do Soov 3'>o i~~~~~~~~~Aors}As5be                                Volnomondry
Belo Ts,ribrbrn&'4@   '' ,o5,|ohnr
20'                                                                                                                                                                                     20'
Morondooc         Nohb o  Mo.nbondy9                               i)P.K4Os,
22'~~~~  FI N                                                            P    NSAmoondrho                  MonkooloYVrE
A,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
z~~~~     ~        ~       ~      ~     ~~~ A .TS  J A molohspp N  G  A  OT
|  vHongondonoo Mrv-tsnnn
22~~ ~~                         ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                A dfS                5 -    DA,'oris                       >r,rIs        i r
-18,                                                                                                Si.Mo    enno  I  m                    (r
Ank boo                                                    Toamasia+
3~~~~~~~~                     ,oAm'/ bononrbe  uSJ      ;0  M1                                                         OOO
01.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~
Tsir         tidy y                                               SW A/TINAN    9.
42'  44A                                   4                                       48'       .           -*diy
Bmeloy7 Ts,ih4i                          <                                  _d 
_,   <   . ,XAmbosombe   T61anara                SOUIH     6                                                    r i
420                                                                                      Ans4 46480'WZIAN                                        









IMAGING
Report No:       15442
Type: ICR



