Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ch'74_ MAcrC
Report No. 6994-flAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGACAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
January 14, 1988
Agricultural Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance of
their officbl duties Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit             Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00             FMG 1,360
FMG 1,000      =      US$ .74
(as of July 1987)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
metric                            British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                  -      3.3 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     .62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kM2)     =       .39 square mile (sq.m.)
1 hectare (ha)                      2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)              G      2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (-.ton)                2,205 pounds (lb)
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION
Fokonolona Institutions
Fokotany                            village
Firaisam-pokotany            -      group of Fokotany
(or Firaisana)                      (former canton)
Fivondronam-pokonola                group of Firaisana
(or Fivondronana)                  (former sub-prefecture)
Faritany                     -      Group of Fivondronana
(former Province)
FISCAL YEAR
Governmmnt of Madagascar            January 1 - December 31
Fanalamanga                         July 1 - June 30



VOR OFFCIL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF NADAGA8CAR
Forests Nanatement and Protection Prolect
Glossary of Acronyms and Abbreviations
AIVF     AmSnagement Int;gro des Valloes Forestiores
Integrated Forest Valley Developmont
ASAC     Credit d'Ajustement du Sectour Agricole
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
ABC      Contre Appui Agroforestior
Agroforestry Support Center
AVF      Amenageaent des Valloes Foresti;res
Forest Valley Development
AWSA     Bass in d'Approvisionnement Bois d'Antananarivo
Antanaarivo Wood Supply Area
IADKA    Banque Arabs pour le D;voloppoment Economique de l'Afrique
Arat Bank for African Economic Development
BII      Bankin' My Indostria
National Bank for Industry
CFPF     Centre de Formation Professionnelle Foresti4re
Forestry Professional Training Center
CU       Uniti de Coordination
Coordination Unit
DAWS     Division Appui Suivi at Statistiques
Monitoring and Statistics Division
DEF      Direction des Eaux et Forats
Forestry Department
DEPF     Direction des Etudeo, Programes at Financ_ment (du MPAEF)
Department of Stud4e-s, Programs and Financing (of MPAEF)
DEL      Direction de l'Elovage
Livestock Department
DIR      Direction de l'Infrastructure Rurale
Rural Infrastructure Department
DR"P    Direction de la Recherche Foresti4re et Piacicole
Forestry and Fisheries Research Department
DVA      Direction de la Vulgarisatiou Agricole
Agricultural Extonsion Department
KASTA    Ecole d'Application des Sciences et Techniques Agricoles
Agricultural Technical School
SESSA    Etablissement d'Enseignement Sup4rieur des Scienees Agronomiques
Agricultural Sciences University
FIUUULUSPNGA Fanjarian' Ala Ambatondrazaka-Moramanga
Mangoro Forest Company (Projoct Entity)
FFN      Fonds Forestior National
National Forestry Fund
FHP      Plan d'Aminagement Forestior
Forest Management Plan
FIPA     Zone de Planification do l'monagomont Foreatier
Forest Management Planning Area
FNDE     Fonds National D voloppem_nt at Equipement
National Investment Budget
FOFIFA   Foibem Pironona Momba ny Fykarohana Ampibarina smintny
This decumet has a restitd distdbuton and may b usd by reipit, ony in u pforuanue
of ti offiW duies. its contents may not otrws be discsd withu  Wodd ank autoidati.



Fampandrosoana ny Ambanivohitra
Agricultural Research Center
GoM      Gouvernement de la R"publiquo Democratiqu. de Madagascar
Governmsnt of the Democratic Republic of Madagacar
IUCN     International Union for the Conservation of Nature
Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
MPAEF    Ministere de la Production Animale et des Eaux et Forets
Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
MPARA   Ministere do la Production Agricole et do la Reforme Agraire
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
MUE      Suivi et Evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation
HMDC     Cooperation Norvegienne
Norwegian Ministry of Development Cooperation
PC       Coordinateur du Projet
Project Coordinator
PEP      Programm  do Dpensoes Publiques
Public Expenditures Program
PIP      Programme d'Investissement Public
Public Investment Pro;rem
PPF      Avance de Fonds de Preparation
Project Preparation Facility
SDC      Cooperation Suisse
Swiss Development Cooperation
SIEF     Service de l'Inventaire et de l'Exploitation Foresti;re
Inventory and Forest Exploitation Service
SPEF     Service Provincial des Eaux et Forkts
Regional Forestry Service
SPN      Service de la Protection de la Nature
Nature Protection Service
TSC      Centre Appui Technique
Technical Support Center
UNDP     Programme des Nations Unies pour le D;veloppement
United Nations Development Progr&.
WwF      Fonds Mondial pour la Nature
World Wildlife Fund
ZODAFARB Zone Delimite d'Action en Favour do l'Arbre
Reserved Private Reforestation Area



DEDOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forests Hanaatment and Protection Proloot
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers             Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiarys          Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
Amounts               SDR 5.1 million (US$ 7.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard 1/
Cofinancierst         Cofinacing would be provided from a grant from the
Swiss development Cooperation (SDC) of US$ 6.5 million
equivalent and a grant from the Norway Ministry of
Development Cooperation (NMDC) of US$ 2.0 million
eq4uivalent. IDA would be the administrator of both
grAnts.
Prolect
Descriutiont          Project objectives are to help the preservation of
ecosystems and biologicAl species in Madagascar and
assist In Implementing the National Conservation
Strategy and Forastry Policy, adopted respectively in
1984 and 1985. To this ond the project seeks to: (a)
strengthen the Forestry Department so as to manage the
sector and priority program; (b) prevent further
degradation of natural forestsg and (c) promote private
sector Involvement in reforestation and wood processing.
The project would include the following three
components: (a) Porestry Department reinforcement
through institutional strongthening and human resource
development activities, and support to the forest
management, private reforestation, integrated forest
valley development, seed collection and research
programs; (b) natural forest protection of the
Ankarafantsika, Lokobe, Zahamena and Tsaratanana forest
reserves, and creation of a new National Park in the
Andasibo region; (c) reorientation of the Mangoro
plantation (Fanalemanga) including sylvicultural program
for long term sawlog production. The project would be
carried over a period of 7 years.
Benefits
and Risks:            Ecological benefits would arise from the preservation of
ecosystems and biological species unique to Madagascar.
1/ On-lending terms between the Government of Iadagascnt (GOH) and
Fanalamanga for US$2.4 million will be with a maturity of 20 years,
Including a grace period of 7 years and an Interest rate 10 higher than
the IBRD rate at the time of Board presentation, the foreign exchange risk
being born by Fanalamanga.



- II -
Effective forest management and agroforostry programs
would provide long term Impacts on agricultural and
forest productivity including conservation of productive
lands. Benefits would arise from the development of the
Forestry Department human resources, planning and sector
management capacity. Incremental production from
project activities would include fuelwood, sawlogs,
fooderops and specific tree products such as fruits and
resin. Distributional benefits to poor rural households
would arise from the integrated forest valley
development and natural forest protection programs.
Main project risks include insufficient enforcement
related to forest management activities leading to
depressed wood-product prices, weak field execution
capacity and inadequate management of sector and project
activities at senior levels. Project emphasis on
annually agreed work programs, on task and geographical
selectivity, and on human resourco development aim at
reducing these risks.



- iii -
Bstlisted Project Coat
Local        Foreoln    Total
^--------US$ million-------
DEY Reinforcement                          2.3            5.5        7.8
Natural Forest Protection                  1.4            4.7        6.0
Reorientation of Mangoro Plantation        L-1            2.5        6.4
Total Baseline Coats                       7.6           12.7       20.3
Physical Contingenties                   .2             .5         .7
Price ContSngenciea                      .6            1.0        1.6
Total Project Costs 11                     8.4           14.2       22.6
Financing Plan
IDA                                         .7            6.3        7.0
SWISS COOPERATION                          1.2            5.3        6.5
NORWAY COOPERATION                                        2.0        2.0
Go0  and Cost Recoveryl                    6.5                       7.1
TOTAL                                      8.4           14.2       22.6
11 Includes taxes and duties of US$ 2.89 million and PPF of US$.9S million
21 Includes taxes and duties of. US$ 2.89 million (:32 of total cost).
est5Aated Disburstmonts (US $ million)
IDA FY                 199    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994   1995
Annual                 2.0     1.4      .6      .7      .7     1.5    .1
Cumulative             2.0     3.4    4.0      4.7     5.4     6.9    7.0
Economic Rate of Return of incremental investments in the MNagoro
Plantation (Fanalamanga) tabove 50%.
Staff Appraisal Re&ort    Report No. no. 6994 NAG
MaD   IBRD 20657



- iv-
DEMODCRAIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forests Manatement and Protection Proiect
Staff A.nraisal Report
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Credit and Project Sumary ............. ..... ..... .9.....        i-iil
Table of Contents..................... ....................       iv-vi
I.     BACKGROUND
A.  Introductton         ....................              1
B.  Economic and Agricultural Context ................     2
C. Governmont Agricultural Policy Fr*Aework          .... .... 3
D.  Bank Group Assistance to the Agricultural Sector...   4
Z. Bank Role in the Forestry Sector.................       6
II.    FORESTRY SECTOR
A* Forest 7....................................99          7
B.  Environmental Aspects...        ....................    8
C. Marketis and Reforestation ........................     8
D. Institutional Setting ....................... .....     10
F. * vermnt. Policy e ................ .................   11
P. Sector Firtance ............ 11l
III.   THE PROJECT
A.  Project Strategy and Objectives..................      13
B.  Project Design and Summary Description**..*.*...,    13
C. Geographical Coverage ............................      14
D.  Detailed Project Features........................      14
Forestry Department Reinforcement .............     14
Natural Forest Protection .....................     20
Reorientation of the Mangoro Plantation ......    21
Technical Assistance and Training ...999....  22
IV.    PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A.  Project Costs .......................... 99 9999999    22
B.  Project Financing ................................     23
C* Procuremen5t..............                  .           25
D.  Disbursements ....................................     26
E.  Accounts and Audits..............................      27



o,v -
V.     PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND InPLEMENTATION
A.  Project ........... ***...         .**. *       ...    28
8.  Implementation of Project Componentso.........         28
DIF Reinfore.ment......... ...................      28
Natural Forest Protection.......ecton.......        32
Reorientation of Mangoro Plantation ......          33
C.  Annual Work Program......                              34
D. Monitoring and Evaluationo..o .............os*          35
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.  aroetso. ...... ..*                                    36
Bo            akt                                          37
Co Pc          .e                        e       s         39
D.  Financial Analysis of Fanalanan. s                     40
Z.  Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact..................      41
VII.   BENFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Bo             nfenefits... ...... .........aa ...............a..  42
B.  Environmental Imaa                      e     t        43
C.  Economic Analysis (Mangoro Plantation)..o........      43
D.  Sensitivity Analysis (Mangoro Plantation) .......      44
E.  Project Risks...............     .                     45
VIII. AGREDEENTS TO BE RACHED        A    C    H    E     D o*o,*** ******* ....  46
TABLES IN MUIN TEXT
Table 2.1   Forest Ares" by Faritany.................       7
Table 4.1 - Proj*ct Costs Summary....................      23
Table 4.2 - Financing Plsn                                 24
Table 4.3 - Procurement Procedures.     dures.............  25



-vi
ANEXN S
Annex 1 DEF Staffing 1987                                       51
Annex 2  .Table 1 - Operating Budget                            52
.Table 2 - INDE Investment Budget                      53
.Table 3 - Public Investment Program 1987-89           54
Annex 3  .Current Protected Areas Activities                    55
Annex 4  .T.chnical Assistance Requirements                     56
Annex 5  .Terms of Reference for major Technical Assistance    57
Annex 6  .Project Related Training                              70
Annex 7  .Table 1 - Project Components by Year                  71
.Table 2 - Summary Accounts Cost Sumar                 72
.Table 3 - Breakdown of Sumuary Accounts               73
.Table 4 - Summary Accounts by Year                    74
.Table 5 - Sunnary by disbursement category            75
Annex 8  .Table 1 - Procurement Proceduress DEF Reinforcement  76
.Table 2 - Procurement Procedures: Natural Forest
Protection                                  77
.Table 3 - Procurement Procedures: Reorientation
of the Mangoro Plantation                   78
Annex 9  .Table 1 - Proceeds SDC grant IDA Credit:
DEF Reinforcement                           78
.Table 2 - Proceeds IDA Credit SDC and NMDC grants:
Natural forest Protection                   80
.Table 3 - Proceeds IDA Credits Reorientatica
of the Mangoro Plantation                   88
Annex 10 .Schedule of Disbursements                             82
Annex 11 *Implementation Schedule                               83
Annex 12 .Staffing Plan                                         34
Annex 13 .Field Activity Monitoring Assisaments                 85
Annex 14 .Financial Analysis of Fanalamanga                     86
Annex 15 .Economic Analysis of Fanalamanga                       48
Annex 16 .Cost Recovery                                          100
Annex 17 *Government Cash Plow                                   104
Annex 18 .Working Papers                                         105
CHARTS
1.    Current DEF Organizational Chart                                106
2.    Proposed DEF Organizational Chart                                107
3.    Fanalamanga Organizational Chart                                 108
4.    Coordinating Unit                                                109
5.    MPAM? Organizational Chart                                       110
MAP   IBRD Activity Location Map (# 20657)                             111



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FORESTS MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01     Forests in Madagascar are of particular environmental and economic
significance due to their high level of biological diversity and to their
watershed protection role in a country with a high susceptibility to
erosion. The uniqueness of these forests combined with the high rate of
deforestation have brought the attention of the Government of Madagascar
(GOM) and the international community to the need for urgent action to
improve the management of wood resources and forest protection. GOM has
consequently formulated and adopted a National Conservation Strategy in
1984 and a Forestry Policy in 1985. Within the basic thrust of these
policy documents, the proposed project provides specific support to a
mtually agreed priority action program.
1.02     Project Background.  The proposed project is the outcome of an
ongoing dialogue between 1OM and the Bank on forestry sector strategy.
Initial project preparation reflected an awireness of growing urban needs
and a dwindling accessible fuelwood energy supply. A March 1984 FAO/CP
preparation report consequently focussed on fuelwood production. Based on
the conclusions of a subsequent joint Bank-FAOICP preparation mission in
May 1985, which benefitted from the preliminary findings of the Energy
Assessment mission, agreements were reached with GOM on modifications in
project scope and objectives. These agreements reflected a conviction by
both GOM and the Bank that a forestry sector approach would be more
appropriate than the originally restricted fuelwood plantation focus. An
institutional development component was prepared with IDA assistance, and a
FAOICP mission returned to Madagascar t! May 1986 to consolidate the
findings of several short term consultancies for the Mangoro plantation and
to develop a rural forestry component. A pre-appraisal mission was present
in the field in February 1987. The International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) and the World Wildlife
Fund International participated in the mission to assist in the preparation
of the natural forest protection component.  The project was appraised in
June 1987.1
B. Economic and Agricultural Context
1.03     Economic Context.  With a population of ten milliotn inhabitants
and a per capita income of US$ 265 in 1986, Madagascar Is one of the
I/ The appraisal mission consisted of J. Tanaka, M. Grut and B. Ribon
(IDA). Ms. M. Harris, ME. U. Park and Mr. T.N. Rico-Mora (consultant)
assisted with the preparation of the report.



poorest countries in the world. The izland has an area of 590,000 km2, a
significant and varied natural resource base and a population density of
about 17 inhabitants/km2. Inappropriate economic policies, inefficient
administrative controls and overinvestment based on inadequate borrowing
arrangements in the late 1970's led to a difficult period of financial
stabilization in the 1980's. Economic growth in the first half of the
1980's was insufficient to keep pace with population increase. Measured in
constant prices, the estimated per capita GDP in 1985 was only about 80% of
the level achieved in 1980. Overall deficit of the central government has,
however, been reduced from 18% of GDP in 1980 to an estimated 5% in 1985,
and the balance of payments current account from nearly 20% of GDP in 1980
to about 10% in 1985. In parallel to its commitment to continued
stabilization measures, Government's new policy has been direated towards
increasing exports, encouraging economic efficiency, enhancing competition,
reducing administrative controls, and adopting measures that would allow
market forces to play an increasing role in resource allocation. The
recently (June 1987) approved Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
supports these policy reforms by inducing major trade liberalization and
exchange rate adjustment.
1.04    Agriculture Sector Outline.  Agriculture is Madagascar's dominant
economic sector; it employs 85Z of the population and accounts for more
than 80S of export earnings. Production and farming systems vary widely,
with many commodities produced, but production in value terms is dominated
by paddy (30%) and beef (16%). A small group of export crops (coffee,
cloves, and vanilla) accounts for about 15% of production, but some three-
quarters of merchandise exports. Industrial crops, notably sugar and
cotton, contribute about 7% of agricultural production value.
Approximately 80% of total production comes from smallholder activity, and
small farmers (1 to 2 ha range) are the backbone of Madagascar's
agricultural economy. Over half of agricultural production in value is for
subsistence, and the share of subsistence production has slowly increased
over the past decade.  In contrast to most sub-Saharan African countries,
irrigation is widely practiced in Madagascar, with water zontrol systems in
use on about 1 million hectares (one third of cultivated land).
Overwhelmingly, irrigated land is used to produce rice, Madagascar's main
crop. The country's rich and varied agricultural potential offers
excellent prospects for raising incomes, improving the supply of industrial
inputs, and for increasing foreign exchange earnings, but this potential is
far from being realized.
1.05     Past Performance.  Agricultural sector performance has been poor
since the mid 1970s. In the 1975-78 and 1984-86 periods, production growth
was insufficient to keep up with population growth and between 1979 and
1983, agricultural production stagnated.  Most serious problems have been:
(a) the stagnation of rice production and the very serious decline in
edible oils production; and (b) the decline in coffee exports (40% of
merchandise exports) by about a third from peak quantities which has not
been compensated by increased export of other commodities. One of the few
brighter spots has been increased cotton production between 1983 and 1986
but the serious price decli oe in world markets has recently led to major
pricing and marketing problems which may be now eased after the June 1987
devaluation (para 1.03).



1.06     Constraints to Growth.  The disappointing performance of the
agricultural sector since 1972 resulted from a package of government
interventions which effectively disengaged the sector from the rest of the
economy, and pushed a large part of it back into subsistence. Government
suppressed or eliminated private trade and as the sole buyer for key crops
offered very low prices to producers. Physical barriers to trade, erected
mostly by local and provincial governments, curtailed the emergence of a
parallel market which in other African countries has rescued the sector
from the worst effects of policy intervention. The growing misalignment of
the currency intensified price distortions, especially for export crops.
Tariff protection and the growing inefficiencies of manufacturing worsened
the terms of trade for agriculture as a whole. With the assistance of the
Bank this situation is now being unwound. Since 1984 markets have been
progressively liberalized, and in the case of export crops the enormous gap
between producer and world prices has been partially closed. More income
is flowing to rural producers, but the sector is not yet restored to its
proper funct'oning and place in the economy, and, except pe.haps for rice,
there is as yet no evidence of a production response. Part of the ongoing
difficulty reflects the evolution of the import regime which is not yet
free; the continuing shortage of foreign exchange despite recent
devaluations, and the fact that industrial/manufacturing tariff protection
is still high. Partly it reflects the fact that the trade sector is not
yet competitive or efficient. Nominal free entry Is slow to take effect
because of the suppression of the financial system, and very large profit
opportunities and mark ups ar. needed to elicit even a small trader
response. The imminent reforms of the Import regime, the tariff regime,
and the domestic financial system, along with a restructuring of
agricultural and export taxes, represent the next stages of the recovery
process; these issues are being tackled under the current program of policy
loans.
C. Governmenc Agricultural Policy Framework
1.07     Strategy.  The agricultural sector crisis, especially the decline
in marketed output of food and industrial commodities and shrinking exnort
levels, led to a fundamental rethinking of Government strategy in the early
1980s. A new policy framework was formally presented at the April 1983
Consultative Group (CG) Meeting and subsequently confirmed at tae April
1986 CG meeting. The Government's objectives now are to (a) increase
production of food crops (above all, rice and edible oil crops) in order to
reduce imports; (b) revive production and improve the quality of
traditional export crops; and (c) diversify agricultural exports. Better
integration of the agricultural and industrial sectors has become an
important medium-term objective. The strategy to achieve these objectives
also recognizea that small and larger farmers are the main agricultural
producers and that Government policy and investments must create an
environment which stimulates production by these key economic agents.
Equally important, the new strategy recognizes that the private sector has
a positive role to play in the process of economic and agricultural
development. The practical consequences of this approach are that the GOM
now supports: (a) moving towards a free market system as a means of
improving producer incentives; and (b) withdrawing ministry services from



activities better performed by other operators, whether small farms (e.g.
agricultural seed production) or commercial companies (e.g. input supply).
Public investments in the sector are to be limited to rehabilitation over
the medium term, and systematic efforts are to be made to program and
manage them better.
1.08     Stratety Implementation.  Over the past three years, the
Government with Bank Group support has made steady progress in implementing
this new strategy. Most significant actions have involved the removal of
agricultu,al pricing and marketing controls on rice, meat, and pulses, and
increased farmgate prices for cotton and selected export crops. In
relation to resource management, GOM has prepared and reviewed with IDA a
Public Investment Program (P.I.P) for agriculture, azid is establishing
systems to update the program annually. Parastatal operations are
progressively bel'-! subjected to profitability tests. GOM is also
reinforcing extension and research while withdrawing from direct production
and some commercial activities. The agricultural ministries, the Ministry
of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA) and the Ministry of
Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry (MPAEF) have been substantially
reorganized, and management strengthening programs launched. Personnel
reductions have been undertaken to position them to play a more dynamic but
less interventionist role.
1.09     Sector Adjustment.  As a counterpart to the reduction in
Govornment intervention and the reduced role of public enterprises in the
economy, Government has taken actions to promote development of the private
sector in order to reduce the bias which emerged during the years of
economic dirigism. The steps taken so far include (a) the adoption of a
new Investment Code in mid-1985 which improves legal and fiscal incentives
to private businesses; (b) easier access to credit and foreign exchange;
and (c) the elimination of state marketing montopolies for major crops,
including paddylrice, beef and beans.  Further measures envisaged includet
(a) a program to foster the development of commercial marketing circuits;
(b) the elimination of price discrimination against the private sector in
the marketing and processing of export crops; and (c) the handover of
agricultural input and veterinary products import and distribution to
private firms. Taken together, these measures add up to the first phase of
a solid adjustment package which will hopefully revive business confidence
and promote private sector investment in the development of agriculture.
D. Bank Group Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.10     Relation to Government Stratety.  Bank Group support for
agricultural sector development in Madagascar has been comprehensive,
including project financing, sector work, institutional development
support, and an intensive dialogue with the Government on key policy
issues. The Bank Group has also played an important role in helping the
Government to coordinate the activities of external financing agencies in
agriculture by encouraging co-financing arrangements, by its review of the
Public Investment Program (PIP) (para 1.08) and through the vehicle of
Consultative Group (CC) meetings (para. 1.07).



1.11     Bank Suvoort to Agriculture. As of July 1987, agricultural
lending to Madagascar accounts for about US $234 million for 16 operations
over a 14-year period, out of a total Bank Group portfolio of about US$700
million. Eight Bank financed agricultural projects are currently under
implementation, in addition to an IFAD project appraised and supervised by
Bank staff. Bank Group lending has been primarily concentrated on priority
commodities, such as rice, livestock, and cotton and has sought to address
the critical sector issues outlined above (para. 1.06). Since 1983,
lending has become more directly program and policy oriented.
1.12      Experience with Bank Lending.  Eight completed projects have been
audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. Project performance has
been mixed, with most projects affected both by policy and institutional
shortcomings concerning the whole sector, and by the repercussions of the
recent economic crisis. The main lessons which have emerged from the
lending experience are that (a) new technology needs to be carefully
adapted to local circumstances, if necessary by trial and error, which
calls for considerable design flexibility in agricultural projects; (b)
administrative capaci.y is very weak and even with support can be easily
overwhelmed by attempting too much too soon; (c) parastatals are a very
poor substitute for private traders in providing marketing for farmers and
by their inherent weakness they can worsen the price and income which risks
farmers face; and (d) without properly functioning markets, competitive
private commerce, and reasonable terms of trade for the sector, the chances
of successfully introducing new technology and encouraging increased
production are not high.
1.13     Recent Operations.  The Bank Group has responded to specific
project issues, as wvll as to the sectoral/economy-wide problems outlined
in para. 1.06 througt& intensive supervision of on-going operations, sector
work, and preparation and appraisal of a new generation of projects. The
lead operation in addressing sector policy issues is the first Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Credit approved in May 1986. This operation provides a
credit of SDR 16.5 million for needed imports of agricultural inputs,
veterinary products and tractors and transport equipment, and incentive
goods for rural areas. The adjustment program to which the credit is tied
couprises the following main elements: (a) activities to improve market
efficiency through continued liberalization and development of the private
sector; (b) strengthening producer incentives by relying increasingly on
market forces, while improving the Government's remaining intervention in
pricing; (c) setting up an effective rice management program which will
include ending the Government's marketing in the two major rice surplus
zones; (d) rationalizing public expenditure, notably through a better
agricultural investment plan; (e) irrigation rehabilitation project --
complementary investments to the rice program; and (f) preparing the next
phase of the agricultural reform program. A key component of this
operation is the rice security strategy designed to provide incentives for
increased domestic production and including a rice intervention stock to
stabilize prices during the scarcity period. Its implementation so far has
led to an important increase in domestic rice production, making Madagascar
self-sufficient in rice in 1987. In addition, recent devaluations have
made Malagasy rice sufficiently competitive to enable a resumption of
better quality rice exports to the regional market. Another important
measure is the increase of coffee farmgate prices so as to expand coffee
production, Madagascar's principal export.



1.14     Institutional Develoument and Credit.  The Second Agricultural
Institutions Development Project, also approved in Msy 1986, is designed to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions and follows from the
successful first phase project which provided institution building support
notably to MPARA and MPAEF. Specific objectives are to improve resource
management, strengthon policy analysis capability, and develop management
capacity for key Governmont services responsible for extension, research,
data collection and analysis. In addition, specific studies will
contribute to policy analysis and preparation of the next phase of the
reform program. The Second Agricultural Credit (Cr 1804-MAG) project is
designed to address the third key element in redressing Madagascar's
agricultural production, namely to help private entrepreneurs invest in the
agriculture sector. It also provides funds to support further
institutional strengthening messures for the National Rural Development
Bank (BTK) and implement initiatives to reform the banking sector under the
Industry and Trado Policy Adjustment Credit.
Z.   Bank Role in the Forestr"' Sector
1.15     HanM oro Forestry Prosect (Loan 1065-MAGa Cr. 525-HAG).  Under the
First Mangoro Forestry Project (1974-81), 47,000 ha of industrial pine
plantations for the production of woodpulp were established by Fanalamanga,
the parastatal created to implement this project. Though the major
physical objective of the project was exceeded by 35Z (12,000 ha planted
over appraisal estimates), it became apparent shortly after project
completion that, for various reasons including deficiency of zinc (Zn) as a
trace element and potassium. (K) as a major element, a high proportion of
the plantations (mostly those created prior to the project period) was not
growing as expected, and that yields from these plantations would be far
below expectations. At the same time the wood pulp market slumped and has
not yet fully recovered. The Project Performance Audit Report (no. 4198,
dated November 14, 1982) analyzed main project issues, and noted some
important lessons, most significant of which was the need for effective
monitoring mechanism.
1.16     Second Manaoro Forostrv Prolect (Cr. 1161-MAG).  This 'ollow-up
project was initially designed to further sustain plantation ac;-vities.
Because of doubts about tho feasibility and justification for the pulpmill,
the project was redesigned at appraisal to reduce planting rates, to cover
only a three-year period and, most important, to incorporate studies of
options for industrial utilization of plantation products. A GOM technical
review committe concluded in March 1984 that the best option was a phased,
domestic market-oriented, integrated development program with emphasis on
saw-milling and small plants for production of kraft pulp, particle board,
and plywood and to reduce nw plantations. Fanalamanga has been to date an
effective project implementation agency with strong management and a
qualified work force. It has vigorously pursued the agreed fertilization
and planting measures, has started a thinning and pruning program to ensure
that the final harvest will be of sawlog quality, and has implemented
improved fire protection and control measures. Due to the above mentioned



- 7 -
reorientation after the 1984 review and the subsequent severe reduction of
its planting program, it Is currently estimated that by the extended
closing date of December 31, 1987, US$ 3.7 million will remain undisbursed.
1.17     With the two above Forestry Projects, the Bank role in the
Forestry Sector was focussed on industrial forestry parastatal
exploitation. It has become apparent that the Bank should reorient its
assistance to the forestry sector and have a more global approach in terms
of institution building and prcgrasming, forest exploitation control,
assistance to villagers for reforestation, expansion and protection of
natural reserves, and limit the role of the Mangoro plantation to the
production of standing trees for sale to private enterprises. Because of
tho broader view encompassed in this project and the reorientation of the
Mangoro plantation, the project name has been changed from Third Forestry
Project to Forests Management and Protection Project.2
II FORESTRY SECTOR
A.  Forest Resources
2.01     An estimated 12 million ha or one fifth of Madagascar's territory
remain covered by natural forests. Only 141 of theso forests are
considered to be high density non-degraded forosts. Wet evergreen forests
are found along the eastern escarpment, while western forests are
essentially deciduous or semi-dociduous. These forest ecosystems rely on a
fragile reproduction equllibrium, and, while it is believed that the island
was once mostly covered by forests, it is today undergoing rapid
deforestation.  It is estimated that the forest cover is decreasing by
200,000 ha a year due primarily to clearing for agriculture and forest
exploitation. There are currently an estimated 260,000 ha of plantation
forests, predominantly consisting of pine and eucalyptus. Estimates of
natural forest and plantation areas by faritany are presented in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Forest Areas by Faritany (ha)
Faritany            Natural       Plantations       Total
Forests
Antananarivo           114,500       60,929           175,429
Antairanana          1,504,300        5,510         1,509,810
Fianarantsoa         1,285,000       77,609         1,362,609
Mahajanga            2,147t,400       6,691         2,134,091
Toamasina            2,813,700      102,106         2,915,806
Toliara              4,462,000       11,932         4,473,932
Total             12,306,900      264,777        12,571,677
2/The previous title Third Forestry Project may still appear on several
Tableaux.



B. Environmental Aspects
2.02     Environmental Significance.  Madagascar is endowed with an
evolut.ionarily and biologically unique environment, having been isolated
from other land masses for some 60 million years. It has the highest rate
of biological endemism in the world: all the lemurs, 95X of the reptiles,
86% of the plants and over half of the bird species are found only within
the island. Madagascar has thus become a top priority area for the
international conservation community due to the rate of ecological
degradation and the particular significance of preservation of biological
diversity.
2.03     Soil Erosion.  While Madagascar has a moderate average real rate
of erosion of 1.38 mm/year, it has a high rate of potential erosion at 4.05
mm/year indicating that the real rate may increase substantially in the
absence of preventive measures. This is particularly noticeable for the
eastern zone of Madagacascar where the current real average rate of erosion
is estimated at .71 mm/year while the potential rate reaches 6.04 mm/yr.
Increases in the real erosion rate lead to a deterioration of soil
fertility which threatens the long term agricultural potential of
Madagascar's land resources.  It also causes siltation in irrigation
networks, induces the further clearing of new lands, and favors landslides
and flooding during the rainy seasons which destroy roads, valley crops and
buildings. Deforestation is an important cause of the erosion problem. It
has a grave impact on a large portion of the remaining natural forests
located in the major eastern and northwestezn river watersheds as rorest
degradation leads, for example, to loss of topsoil and severe siltation in
the two major rice producing areas of the Lac Alaotra and Marovoay.
Reforestation, forest protection and soil conservation programs must form
part of a strategy to address this issue.
C. Markets and Reforestation
2.04     General Wood Market Characteristics.  Annual wood consumption is
estimated at some 10 million tons, 9 million tons of which is consumed as a
source of household energy. Fuelwood accounts for 96% of national
household energy consumption and for some 802 of total final energy
consumption. The geographical distribution of forests is inversely
proportional to that of the population. The Antananarivo region contains
30% of the population and less than 1% of the remaining natural forest
area. According to analyses performed by the Bank's Energy and Industry
Operations, the supply-demand imbalance for fuelwood in the Antananarivo
region will increase by 70% over the next decade from the current deficit
of 1.3 million tons of wood equivalent. This would correspond to a loss of
1.5 million ha of natural forest cover by 1995. Paradoxically, fuelwood
prices over the last five years appear to have decreased in real terms,
reflecting a breakdown in the Forestry Department capacity to control
forest exploitation as well as a significant drop in consumer purchasing
power and increased competition in fuelwood supply. The valorization of



-9-
existing wood resources appears in this context as an essential condition
for the rehabilitation of the forestry sector (para. 3.11). Annual
Lndustrial roundwood consumption is estimated at 1 million tons with 552 of
the market concentrated in Antananarivo. The sawlog market has more than
doubled between 1968 and 1986 in spite of the economic slump. This is
attributed to price increases of competing construction materials (such as
corrugated iron sheets and cement) and the growth of the Antananarivo
market. The share of pine wood has also more than doubled in that period
reaching an estimated 401, as wood from the natural forest becomes less
accessible (para. 6.05). While the first two forestry projects misjudged
the market capacity to absorb Mangoro plantation output (woodpulp), the
proposed project is demand-driven. However, since the growth of the
domestic sawlog market is dependent on the uncertain growth of the economy,
market forecasts, for the Mangoro plantatior. are conservative both in
volume and in prices (para 6.04-6.09).
2.05     Export.  Export revenues from the forestry sector have decreased
by 75X in constant terms over the last ten years. This decline has been
mostly caused by a reduction of the external market for natural fibers
(such as raffia or kapok). Exports of other products have either stagnated
or decreased with the exception of medicinal plants and cinnamon. Between
1972 and 1974, foreign exchange earnings from exports balanced foreign
exchange expenditures for imports of forestry related products (mostly
paper and pulp). The trade balance specific to the forestry sector has
been consistently negative since then. This deficit reached 2.8 billion
FMG (US$ 4.5 million) in 1983. Madagascar could develop its export market
for products such as medicinal plants, cinnamon and sawnwood (para. 6.06).
2.06     Industrial Plantations.  Madagascar, with the support of the Bank,
UNDP, BADEA and other donors, launched an ambitious plantation program in
the Mangoro valley designed to support future major forest-product
industries. These industries would have included primarily a pulpmill, and
also sawnwood and charcoal production. Due to the slump in the world pulp
market, the orientation of this plantation has had to be shifted from an
export pulp production focus to a longer-term sawlog production scheme.
2.07     Pzivate Reforestation.  Farmers have played a minor role in wood
and tree related production. Community-based Government sponsored programs
have failed until recently because they relied mostly on coercion for
inducing tree planting and because lack of enforcement of forest
exploitation regulations has led to depressed wood market prices. Rural
forestry represents an untapped potential in most regions of the country
for both tree-related subsistence products and for domestic and export
markets products. In order to better utilize this potential, GOM has
introduced, in decree 85-072, a new approach to private reforestation
denominated ZODAFARB (Zones delimitees d'action en faveur de l'arbre).
This approach is based on three principles: first, that tree planting
should be a profitable investment; second, that the trees should belong to
the planter; and third, that title to designated areas of state land should
be given to individuals or groups who plant and maintain trees on them.
Response to the ZODAPARB program, especially from businesses, associations
and individuals from Antananarivo has so far been encouraging with survival
rates of planted trees reaching 851 after the first year.



- 10 -
D. Institutional Settint
2.08     Institutional Structure.  The Forestry Department (DEF) of the
IIPAEF plays a central role in the conception and implementation of the
national forestry policy. The DEF current main functional responsibilities
include forest management (exploitation control and inventory), nature
conservation (protection of forest reserves and soil conservation) and
reforestation (see Chart 1, actual organization chart of DEF). Regional
Forestry Services constitute the decentralized implementation structure of
the DEF in the field. A network of forest protection areas has been
established and consists of 2 national parks, 11 strict natural reserves
(with total protection) and 23 special reserves covering at its creation an
area of 1.2 million ha. Natural forests not included in the network of
protected areas are mostly part of the public domain. Their exploitation,
as a first priority, Is regulated by the DEF which is responsible for
granting exploitation permits, determining stumpage rates, and on-site
exploitation control. The DEF staff comprised 868 persons in 1987 of which
62 were at the engineer level (professional level with undergraduate degree
in forestry) and 42Z at the technical level. Annex 1 presents the
distribution of DEF staff by grade and faritany.
2.09     While the DEF's organizational structure is basically correct, and
its legal framework to act is adequate, it has in practice been very weak
in fulfilling its role. First, its budgetary resources have been
substantially reduced in real terms, thus compressing both the investment
budget and the operating budget severely (see para. 2.13). Second, staff
have not been renewed for a long time, as a result of which some 40X of
agents are over 50 years of age. Moreover, many positions go unfilled due
to the closing of technical schools between 1981 and 1986. For instance,
only 372 of field network positions are currently filled. This has led to
DEF's incapability to supervise correctly the forest protection areas,
which has resulted in continued encroachment, and has also made control of
forest exploitation virtually non-existent. The proposed project will
attempt a comprehensive reinforcement of the DEF by (a) implementation of a
staffing plan for project activities; (b) strengthening its programming,
program monitoring and financial management; (c) implementation of a broad
training program for local staff; a-id (d) selective technical assistance to
reinforce the DEF is priority tasks.
2.10     The two major forestry parastatals are Fanalamanga (Mangoro pine
plantation) and Famama (cashew plantations and processing) with several
other smaller parastatals involved in wood-processing activities. Most
wood processing parastatals are currently operating significantly under
capacity. The private sector deals in all aspects of forestry production
from plantation to wood processing. Charcoal production is a profitable
activity for small scale operators, but would be hardly profitable for
large operators. There are few private large scale wood processing
enterprises as most sawmilling is still done by family owned small scale
businesses.



- 11 -
E. Government Policy
2.11     Forestry Policy and Objectives.  A Forestry Policy and Development
Strategy has been formally adopted by GOM in 1985. Main objectives include:
(a) increase forested areas through participatory private reforestation
programs; (b) rationalize the management of existing forests; (c) reduce
land area affected by fire and cleared for agriculture; (d) define a
watershed management plan; (e) step up enforcement of protected natural
areas; and (f) reach fuelvood self-sufficiency for major urban areas. The
formulation of these objectives represents an important step in guiding the
development of the forestry sector, although the level of operational
specification remains insufficient. The policy does not provide an
indication of the priorities to be pursued in the short term. This
represents a serious shortcoming given the current limited means of the
DEF.
2.12     Conservation Policy.  The Government has recently started to
address conservai.ion issues with the promulgation of a Conservation
Strategy decree, the creation of a National Conservation Commission chaired
by the Prime Minister, and the sponsoring of a major international
conference in November 1985 to increase the awareness of conservation
issues in Madagascar and attract financial support from donors. The
implementation of this strategy has been s"w and the resources of the
Government are clearly very limited to address this problem. The proposed
project would contribute to the implementation of several Important
elements of the strategy, such as: promoting reforestation by inducing
private participation, village-based agroforestry programs, intensifying
cultivation In suitable areas (irrigated rice in forest valleys), and
promoting tourism based on respect for the country's unique natural
heritage.
F. Sector Finauce
2.13     Sector Finance and PIP.  An examination of operating and
investment budget allocations reveals a dramatic drop in the financing
available to the sector. In constant terms, for the foreatry sector, the
operating budget has decreased by 692 since 1977 (Annex 2, Table 1), and
the investment budget by 752 since 1980 (Annex 2, Table 2). Personal
expenditures represent 932 of the operating budget and over 601 of the
investment budget. An examination of the 1987-89 Public Investment Program
(PIP; Annex 2, Table 3) for the forestry sector raises the following
issues:
(a) the level of programmed resources for the sector is
unrealistic in relation to past financing levels. The
financing gap is considerable as only 9% of requested external
grants have been acquired. Requests for national investment
budget allocations for the 1987-89 period are equivalent to an
average annual FNDE allocation of FMG 4 billion whereas the
1987 allocation was equal to FMG 1.44 billion;



- 12 -
(b)in spite of the relative growth of other programs since the 198
4-87 PIP, the largest share of planned resources is still too concentrated
on industrial plantation projects (53Z of the PIP). The Mangoro pine and
cashew plantations alone represented 80% of external financing committed to
the sector in 1984. Industrial plantation projects received 95% of
committed external financing and 701 of the national investment budget.
This contributes to increase the financing gap for other sector activities.
This project devotes 301 of total project costs to the Mangoro plantation
which will become profitable in year 7 and hence will allow GOM resources
to be directed into other sectors.
(c)the PIP consists of 28 projects ranging from FMG 52 million to
FMG 4.39 billion. The eight smallest projects represent only 5% of the
PIP. The PIP would benefit from the consolidation of activities into a
coherent framework of clear investment objectives leading to the
identification of clear investment priorities. Certain activities, which
have proven insufficiently productive after several years of investment
should be investigated and, if need be, reoriented.
The shift in emphasis of the proposed project from an industrial plantation
focus to a broader sectoral approach structured around a limited number of
specific priorities would help PIP regain balance by responding
appropriately to key forestry sector issues and by attracting financing.
In addition, the development of a Public Expenditures Program (PEP) within
the context of the proposed project would help identify additional issues
intrinsic to the DEF operational programs/project activities relationship.
The project will assist the DEF to revise its PIP and PEP.
2.14     National Forestry Fund.  The concept of a National Forestry Fund
(FFN) has been introduced by decree in 1985 to strengthen sector finance.
Funds for the FFN would initially consist of an annual FNDE allocation.
Such a measure would allow to have a budgetary cycle appropriately timed
with reforestation activities since FNDE funds are currently available only
from May to December (due to a lengthy budget implementation procedure)
whereas the peak of the planting season runs from January to March. GOM
envisages that FFN sources would eventually include all revenues from
forestry exploitation permits and taxes on wood product transactions. The
FFN would focus initially on the ZODAFARB program (para. 2.07) and would
progressively support all DEF activities as sources of funds are expanded.
Because the FFN has not yet been established, the project has been designed
in a way that does not require it.
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Strategy and Obiectives
3.01     Strategy.  The proposed project represents a reorientation from
previous Bank-financed fcrestry activities in Madagascar (para 1.,7).
First, it draws away from a narrow industrial plantation focus and
addresses broader forestry sector issues with an emphasis on conservation
and sustainable use of natural resources. Second, it assists in redefining



- 13 -
GOP's role in the sector away from direct wood production and processing
towards more effective provision of incentives for reforestation and
improved forest management. Third, it supports an increased role of the
private sector in wood production by assisting participatory private
reforestation programs. This approach is consistent with the agricultural
strategy outlined in para. 1.07 and responds to the Bank Group commitment
to assist Sub-Saharan Africa in dealing with deforestation, fuelwood supply
and conservation issues. It is also consistent with the policy of
emphasizing the private sector since Fanalam'nga would limit its role to
selling to private entrepreneurs either fell wood from pruning (for
charcoal), or standing trees for sawing.
3.02     Oblectives.  Project objectives are to: (a) strengthen the DEF
capacity to manage the sector and execute priority programs to implement
the strategy (para. 1.07 on strategy); (b) stimulate private reforestation
by rural and urban populations; (c) prevent further degradation of natural
forests; (d) assist Fanalamanga in attracting private investment for wood-
processing activities once the Mangoro plantation reaches the production
stage; and (e) assist the above activities with a seed station and an
applied research program.
B. Proiect Design and Summary Description
3.03     Project Design.  Considering the deterioration of Madagascar's
capability to deal with environmental issues in general, and forestry
issues in particular, and given severe financial and human resources
constraints to address those issues, a restricted range of priority tasks
and geographical areas has been defined and agreed with GOM. Project
design addresses major institutional constraints mentioned in para. 2.08 to
2.10 by placing an emphasis on selectivity, investment in human resource
development, and phased institutional development actions to allow
effective absorotion of technical assistance and training. The different
activities of the projects (except for the Mangoro Plantation) have been
placed in existing relevant Divisions of the DEF structure in order to
reinforce globally the whole DEF management capacity (see Chart 2). The
project attempts to minimize its impact on recurrent expenditures by
redistributing existing human resources. It also diversifies support to
forestry sector activities in order to shift the current excessive PIP
focus on industrial plantations (para. 2.13). The project can be viewed as
a pilot project since it represents the first step of a long-term sector
development program, and the experience acquired through ita specific
interventions could subsequently be applied to a wider range of activities
and geographical areas.
3.04     Summary Proiect Description.  The project would include the
following three components:
(a) Forestry Department reinforcement through institutional
strengthening and human resource development activities, and
support to the forest management, private reforestation,
integrated forest valley development, seed collection and
research programs;



- 14 -
(b)  natural forest Protection of the Ankarafantsika, Andasibe,
Lokobe, Zahamena and Tsaratanana forest reserves, creation of
a now National Park in the Andasibe region and support to DEF
for the management of the protected areas network;
(c) reorientation of the Mantoro plantation developed under the
previous two forestry projects in Madagascar primarily toward
long term sawlog production.
C. Geoaraihical Coverage
3.05     Most project activities will be concentrated in the regions of
Antananarivo and Mahajanga. In the Antananarivo region, forest management,
integrated forest valley development, and natural forest protection
activities would be located in the natural forests east of the capital
where the pressure on existing forests is highest, while activities
supporting reforestation by urban and rural populations would be located in
areas closer to urban markets, north and west of the capital. The Mangoro
plantation is located along the valley of the Mangoro, some 75 kilometers
east of the capital. In the Mahajanga region, project activities involving
natural forest protection and manag #ent, and private reforestation are
concentrated in the area between the city of Mahajanga and the southern
boundary of the Ankarafantsaika forest. The integrated forest valley
development program would concern seven areas in the faritanys of Toamasina
and Fianarantsoa located on the eastern escarpment. Specific support to
the ZCDAFARB private reforestation program and to rural forostry would be
respectively located next to Antsiranana in the north of the country and in
Ihosy in the faritany of Fianarantsoa. The second phase of the natural
forest protection component would include the reserves of Tsaratanana and
Lokobe in the north of the country, and the Zahamena reserve situated north
of the Andasib4 National Park. Location of major project activities are
shown on the report Map.
D. Detailed Prolect Features
Forestry Department Reinforcement (US$ 8.6 million)
3.06     As described in paras. 2.08 and 2.10, tho Forestry Department
(DEF) has become increasingly unable to manage and develop the forestry
sector. This component aims at rehabilitating the DEF by selectively
strengthening its sector management capacity, developing its human
resources and supporting the iMplementation of seven key programs. A
summary description of these program is provided below.
3.07     Sector Management Strenathening.  Sector management strengthening
activities would focus ons (i) sector prograding including PIP and PEP
development; (ii) program monitoring; (iii) financial managemnt; (iv)
information system; and (v) forestry promotion. Project support for sector
proarammint and monitorint would consist of short-term technical



- 15 -
assistance, equipment and salaries for incremental staff. Following up on
PIP issues identified during project appraisal, major sector programming
objectives are to provide DEF, in close coordination with the DEPF, with a
capacity to update and develop the forestry sector PIP, and to derive a
sector PEP. Assurances ware reached during negotiations that MPAEF would
submit a three year rolling sector PEP starting with the 1989-1991 cycle,
and that new forestry projects above US$ 3 million would be furnished to
the Association for approval. Technical assistance and equipment to
improve DEF financial management would be provided to the DEF Financial
Service (in the Administration Division) over the project period. Project
support would focus on accounting, financial reporting, programming and
budget monitoring. Particular attention would also be given to
strengthening DEF cost recovery capacity. Improvements in the DEF
information system are also necessary to support effective planning and
monitoring. Short term technical assistance would be provided to
streamline information flows within DEF, to make periodic DEF reports more
action oriented, to design a training program to implement improved
information flows both at headquarters and regional service levels.
Forestry promotion activities would aim at developing targeted
communication instruments related to specific DEF activities. Support
would include short term technical assistance, equipment and would finance
the formulation of focused educational material, a newsletter to transfer
experience among different projects and diffuse technical innovation from
abroad or from local research. Other specific promotion activities are
included in the private reforestation (para. 3.15), and integrated forest
valley development (para. 3.16). The head of the 'Animation' unit to be
created within the Soil Conservation Division (para. 5.03) would have main
responsibility for implementation of Forestry promotion.
3.08     Project activities would be complementary to institutional
development measures currently underway within MPAEF in the context of the
Second Agricultural Institutions Development Project (Credit 1709-NAG).
The proposed Project would complete the coverage of key institutional
strengthening requirements of all MPAEF's technical departments since
support to the Livestock Department is provided under Credit 1211-MAG anu
support to the newly created Fisheries Department is assured by a UNDP
technical assistance grant.
3.09     Human resources developnent.  Considering the significant human
resource constraints on sector development (cf. para. 2.09), this
subcomponent is conceived to increase the number and quality of
professional and technical foresters both at headquarters and in the field,
to update they technical knowledge and work methods of existing technical
agents, and to facilitate the insertion of new technical staff into the
DEF. This objective would be pursued bys (i) financing incremental staff
to be gradually integrated to the DEF (Annex 12); and (ii) providing
training in priority topics to both project and DEF staff (annex 6).
3.10     Staff Training.  In addition to on-the-job training by the
technical assistance in the context of specific project activities, a
series of training courses organized by a Training Coordinator would
directly support the implementation of most DEF programs included in the
project. Particular emphasis is placed on developing and teaching 'social
relations' techniques which are key to evolving the relationship between



- 16 -
forestry agents and rural populations from a hierarchical to a
collaborative mode. The establishment of new relations is indeed a
determinant to the surress of participatory schemes included in several
activities project. Training for each activity would include an initial
intensive session followed by annual shorter follow-up sessions. Training
for the natural forest protection component would be mostly on-the-job and
rely on the long term technical assistants. A training course based in the
new National Park in the Aidasibe area would aim at training 30 new T-level
staff specialized in the management of forest reserves over the project
period. The type and scope, of project related training are contained in
Annex 6. In order to fill the current gap for 'ingenieurs de conception',
the project would finance a limited number of post-graduate fellowships for
DEF staff with strong academic credentials. Study tours are also envisaged
to expose both DEF headquarters and regional managers to experience in
other countries. An internship program for students of the recently
reopened technical agricultural schools (para. 2.09) and for recently
graduated P-level foresters has been conceived to accelerate their
insertion in the DEF and their knowledge of field operutions. This program
would allow forestry students and recent gradtates to be paired during the
academic recess with an experienced DEF field agent to perform jointly
regular service activities.
3.11     Pilot Forest management.  The pilot forest management program
would seek revalorisation of wood resources. Such revalorization would
reflect more adequately the economic and ecologic value of wood, favor
private reforestation as wood production would become a more attractive
investment. In addition wood resources (thinnings and untreated stands)
available in the Mangoro plantations would become more competitive for
processing by private charcoalers, thus reducing pressure on the eastern
natural forest as the main fuelwood resource for Antananarivo.
3.12     Initially, this component would be limited to the Antananariio
wood supply area (AWSA), where the pressuAe on existing forest resources is
highesi (para. 6.02), by introducing a rational forest management framework
in this area. Project activities would include: (i) forest resource
inventory of the AWSA; (ii) identification of major conservation areas (in
coordination with natural forest protection component); (iii) study of
major wood products sources and markets (in coordination with Household
Energy Planning component of Energy I project); (iv) identification of
major areas of agricultural encroachment on forests; (v) study of ownership
patterns of eucalyptus area; (vi) elaboration of AWSA framework plan; and
(vii) preparation of a detailed Forest Management Plan (FMP). It is
suggested that the first FMP be done for the forests surrounding the new
National Park to be created in the Andasibe region (para. 3.21).
Management techniques could include: total protection, sustained
exploitation, buffer plantations, controlled exploitation, conversion to
agriculture and clearfelling, and aim at concentrating exploitation sites
in order to reduce DEF control operating costs. Management techniques
should also define required implementation measures such as incentives to
eucalyptus plantation rehabilitation or regeneration, and fiscal incentives
for rational forest exploitation. Support to plan implementation envisaged
within the project would be limited by the DEF exploitation control
capacity and would include infrastructure and equipment for control
barriers and vehicles and equipment for field control teams responsible for



- 17 -
monitoring forest exploitation permits. If found successful following the
midterm review, it is envisaged that this forest management approach would
also be implemented in the Mahajanga wood supply area.
3.13     In addition, project support would include long term technical
assistance in forest management, equipment and short term technical
assistance to the inventory team, short term expertise in forest revenue
systems, forest legislation, natural forest management and other specific
areas, and training for field staff responsible for plan implementation in
AWSA. The project would also strengthen forest economics capability wi.thin
the Forest Exploitation Division through short term technical assistance
and long term training of a DEF staff abroad. Forest inventory activities
are being defined as a complement to the national resource inventory &lso
financed under Credit 1709-MAG and to the Household Energy Planning Program
contained in the Energy I Project.
3.14     Adjustments in the forest revenue system, and specifically of
stumpage rates, represent both an important policy instrument and an
instrument to generate the resources necessary to improve the management of
the sector. Assurances were given during negotiations that: (a) a calendar
for definition and implementation of appropriate changes in forest revenue
systems for the natural forests including possible modifications of the
collection system and forest exploitation regulations; (b) the stumpage
rate from DEF plantations would be revised to market rates in order to
bring consistency between Fanalamanga and DEF stumpage rates; and (c)
increases in stumpage rates for the natural forest would be imrlumented
following recommendations of the technical assistance, DEF analysis and IDA
review. Valorization of wood resources through adoption of these measures
would provide further incentive for private involvement in reforestation.
It could also lead to a reconsideration of new plantation investments by
GOM based on the information obtained in the AWSA master plan and stumpage
rates which better reflect the renewal costs of the wood resource.
3.15     Private reforestation (ZODAPARB program).  The project would
assist the implementation of the ZODAFARB program (para. 2.07) in five
major areas located in the regions of Antananarivo (2), Mahajanga (2) and
Antsiranana (1). Project support would consist of road rehabilitation and
tracks to access plantation areas, nurseries, equipment for land
preparation and planting, training and short term local technical
assistance. Whenever possible, DEF would contract seedling production to
local farmers in areas adjacent to the plantation area. DEF seedlings
would be restricted for use to small farms (less than 20 ha), while larger
farms would be responsible for producing their own seedlings. This would
create a demand for seedlings which could be met by the development of
private nurseries providing employment to the local population. Other
employment opportunities would arise from firebreak and plantation
maintenance requirements. The development of private nurseries requires
however the abrogation of decree 4172/85 which stipulates the free cession
of tree seedlings. The abrogation of this decree and the freeing of
seedling price would be a condition of effectiveness. It is expected that
small scale ZODAFARB participants (both local villagers and urban
participants) would plant 270 ha/yr while total available land for the two
ZODAFARBs in the Antananarivo area reaches 16,200 ha. Considering market



- 18 -
conditions for fuelwood, the accessibility of the ZODAPARB and the
investment potential in the capital city, most large scale participants are
likely to come from Antananarivo. Urban collectivities would also be
encouraged to participate in the ZODAFARB program. The project would
finance a short promotion campaign in Antananarivo presenting benefits from
ZODAFARB program. Training will be provided to DEF managers and field
agents responsible for the implementation of the ZODAFARB program. Such
training would not be restricted to ZODAFARB areas included in the project.
Training would also be available for participants and individuals who could
be hired as technicians by private participants.
3.16     Intearated Forest Valley Development.  The Integrated Forest
Valley Development (AIVF) program addresses the issue of slash and burn
cultivation (tavy) in the eastern forest by developing a set of measures to
reduce the pressure of agricultural encroachment on the remaining forests.
These measures aim principally at increasing agricultural productivity of
the forest valley bottoms and previously cleared slopes. The AIVF program
builds on the experience acquired from the forest valley improvemen;
program (AVY) since 1954, and the UNDP-financed Savoka project since 1978.
The AVF program, operated by the existing DEF organization, (Soil
Conservation Division) has an important rate of failure due to a dispersion
of activities in too many sites, poor technical implementation by village
commumities and lack of training and extension of farmers who have then
abandoned the sites. The Savoka project is concentrated in two pilot
regions (Faritany of Fenerive and Fianarantsoa) with precise integrated
activities and close monitoring and training, but is expensive and hence is
hardly sustainable. The Savoka project is finishing the construction of a
third center in Mananara. The Savoka project has a separate organization
within DEF. The purpose of the AIVF program would be to merge the two
above approaches (AVF and Savoka) into a sustainable model within the
existing DEF structure.
3.17     The program would have two phases.  Phase one (years 1-3) would
consist of designing the program and testing it on three existing sites,
which were built in the Savoka project (Vavatenina, Kianjavato and
Mananara) on the East cost. After a mid-term review specific for this
program (year 3), the second phase (year 4-7) would consist of expanding
the number of sites. For planning purposes, four more sites have been
envisaged. During the mid- term review, the following criteria of
sustainability of the model will be useds technical (crop yield, soil and
forest protection), social (individual and community real participation),
financial (revenues of farmers, total cost to farmers, GOM, other donors).
During the mid-term review, an assessment of the effectiveness of technical
assistance will be conducted. The merging of the two existing programs
(AVF and Savoka) into the AIVF program in the Soil Conservation Division
(para 5.03) would be necessary. Major activities would includes (i) small
scale irrigation works in forest valley bottoms; (ii) agroforestry on
valley slopes for soil conservation, food crops and export crops; (iii)
testing of community forest management; and (iv) support to secondary
products such as fruits, apiculture and fishery as supplementary sources of
income and nutrition. Project support would include the construction and
equipment of Technical Support Centers (TSC), small scale hydraulic works,
technical assistance and training for local community participants and



- 19 -
agricultural and forestry agents. The World Food Program would support the
execution of collective works involved in the AIVF program. Over the
project period, if phase 2 is realised with 7 TSC as planned, it is
expected that 56 collectivities would be active in the AIVF program
Involving the construction of 1320 ha of irrigated areas, and the
plantation of 670 ha of agroforestry species, 536 ha of block tree
plantation and 268 ha of fruit trees plus forest management for 2010 ha.
3.18     Seed supply and Forestry Stations.  This project activity would
strengthen local capacity to collect, store and provide quality seed of
forest trees to support the above mentioned reforestation initiatives
(para. 3.11, 3.15, 3.16). The project would finance the infrastructure and
equipment of five regional seed collection centers (Fianarantsoa,
Toamasina, Mahajanga, Antsiranana, Toliara). These centers were selected
on the basis of their production potential and to ensure species diversity
in both exotic and indigenous species. Such diversity is important to the
implementation of reforestation activities. This would directly complement
the ongoing Swiss bilateral activities which focuses on central seed supply
quality, infrastructure and management. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on a seed pricing table and pricing adjustment procedure. Two
forestry stations (Angavokely In Antananarivo and Marohogo in Mahajanga)
would be rehabilitated to pro,4de a physical support to training,
education, forestry promotio'&, reforestation and applied research
activities. Those two stations have been selected by DEF considering road
access, location relative to other project activities and quality of
existing infrastructure. Rehabilitation would include buildings for
educational purposes, species trial site, material and equipment for
station maintenance.
3.19     Research.  Limited applied research would be financed under the
project in direct support to specific project activities. It would focus
on: (a) rehabilitation techniques for the eucalyptus plantations around
Antananarivo in support to definition of forest resources management plan
(cf. para. 3.07); (b) testing of multipurpose woody species beneficial to
erosion control, fertilization, fodder, fuelwood at Beforona research
station, in real sites (on-farm testing) and monitoring of agroforestry
measures adopted in the -context of the AIVF programs; (c) species trial,
natural regeneration study and agroforestry techniques testing in region of
Toliari to define appropriate rural forestry approach; (d) species trials
in the Marohogo forestry station (located next to Mahajanga) to identify
appropriate species for possible future plantation activities, (e)
continuation of the production-oriented research in the Mangoro pine
plantation, but now with more emphasis on wood utilization; and (f) the
regeneration and rational utilization of the natural forest.
Natural Forest Protection (US$ 6.9 million)
3.20     The objective of this component is to establish an effective
protection program for priority forest conservation areas. This component
is based on the results of the WWF financed 'Protected Areas Program' and
has been designed in coordination with major donors currently involved in
conservation in Madagascar. Together, these programs would respond to
priority forest conservation requirements by including Madagascar's main
biotopes and covering a basic cross-section of key ecosystems (see Annex



- 20 -
3). While most activities would be focused on specific areas, support
would be provided to the central DEF Nature Protection Service (SPN) in the
form of training, equipment, incremental staff and imagery (aerophotography
or satellite) for major forest reserves.  This component would involve two
phases.
3.21     Phase One.  A range of protection measures would be initially
applied and tested over some 150,000 ha representative of the eastern wet
evergreen forest in the region of Andasibe (around the special reserve of
Analamasaotra) and over some 135,000 ha of the western dry deciduous forest
In the Ankarafantsika region. A new national park (10,000 ha) would be
created in the Andasibe region. Measures to be tested would include
imptoved demarcation methods, patrols and enforcement of boundaries, buffer
plantations, promotion of tourism as a source of income to local population
and development of village participatory methods supporting forest
conservation. A specific forest management plan would be defined in areas
adjacent to the core protection area. The project would finance housing
infrastructure, training facility, visitor center and accommodations for
researchers and tourists, road access, trail network, boundary
delimitation, vehicles, and technical assistance. The training centre at
Andasibe would serve as a training facility for all project conservation
activities. The accessibility of the Andasibe reserve combined with its
training and visitor facilities make it also a major focus for education
and tourism. Cost recovery through tourism activities would also support
the operations and maintenance of the reserves, but has not been quantified
because of lack of experience in the country.
3.22     Phase Two.  Depending on the results of the first phase assessed
during a mid-term review (fourth project year), forest protection measures
would be expanded to the reserves of Zahamena and Tsaratanana. The
Zahamena reserve would include the classified forest of Andraibabe over a
total area of 93,350 ha. The Tsaratanana reserve would include the Special
Reserve of Manongarivo and the classified forest of Kalobenono-Antsakay
covering a total area of 138,872 ha. The Zahamena reserve would represent
the largest protected area in the eastern forest. During this second
phase, support would be limited to basic infrastructure and equipment for
forest protection and activities geared to surrounding communities. No
training facilities would be provided and minimal visitor facility would be
built, mostly for research purposes. The staff for each reserve would
consequently be smaller than during the first pilot phase in order to
reduce recurrent costs.
Reorientation of the ManRoro Plantation (USS 7.1 million)
3.23     This component would complete the conversion of the Mangoro
plantation from a maximum production regime, short rotation plantation
intended for a large scale pulpmill to a maximum value regime, long
rotation plantation for sawlog wood (para. 1.15). Project support would
focus on the implementation of a sylvicultural program primarily oriented
towards long term sawlog production. The plantation currently consists of
some 84,000 ha of pine (71% in Pinus kesiya and 29Z in P. caribaea, P.
oocarDa and P. elliottii) and 890 ha of eucalyptus. Based on current
market estimates and because of the heterogeneous quality of the
plantation, further afforestation would not be pursued and the



- 21 -
sylvicultural program would divide the plantation into three zones with
different levels of sylvicultural treatment intensity. The area under
intensive treatment would corer 25,000 ha of the existing 84,000 ha. The
area under semi-intensive treatment would cover 15,000 ha while the rest of
the plantation would undergo minimum treatment (only in the form of fire
protection). Semi-intensive treatment would essentially consist of first
thinning and low pruning. Intensive treatment would, in addition, include
second thinning and high pruning. Accordingly, the sylvicultural program
would consist of the following major activities: (a) outstanding
conventional low pruning would be completed within the first three project
years followed by liberation cutting; (b) first class stands less than 10
years old would be high pruned to obtain an export quality product at 300
stems per ha; (c) overdue thinnings would be executed on stands 12 years
and younger and regular thinning would be done on trees between 9 and 12
years depending on stand quality; (d) thinning of trees between 9 and 12
years of age in site classes 1, 2 and 3; and (e) second thinning would take
place 5 years after the first treatment.
3.24     The following activities would be necessary to support the
implementation of the sylvicultural program: (a) fire protection involving
the maintenance of 950 km of firebreaks per year and the operation of the
fire fighting units equipped with manned fire towers, fire-fighting
brigades and vehicles, water points, aerial support, and a central fire
protection unit during the dry season; (b) road maintenance and building
consisting of 250 km of secondary roads and 200 km of forest tracks per
year, and the yearly upgrading of 30 km of the central all-weather service
road, and rehabilitation of a limited number of bridges. Building
maintenance would be limited to public buildings; (c) inventory programs to
provide accurate monitoring of plantation resources; (d) pasture
improvement for local village communities adjacent to the perimeter which
have lost grazing space to the plantation, allowing Danalamanga to maintain
adequate relations with these communit4.es and mitigating the fire danger;
and (e) research to monitor the impa-:t of the sylvicultural treatment.
In addition to the above-mentioned activities, the project would support
manatement expenditures such as supervisory personnel salary, vehicle
operating expenses, and overhead on a declining basis. The Mangoro
plantation component would be financially self sustained by 1994/95.
Technical _Asistance and Training
3.25     Technical assistance has been included in most project activities
because of the innovative nature of certain components and because of the
current scarcity of foresters experienced in project supported forestry
activities. The project would finance, over a period of 7 years, a total
of 19.8 man-years of short term consultancies to support project
implementation. In order to utilize local knowledge, local consultants
have been used whenever a local consultancy capacity has been identified.
Some 10.9 man-years of short term consultancies are expected to be provided
by local consultants. Long-term technical assistance equivalent to 30.8
man-years (including 3.75 man-years of local expertise) would be financed
in support of the following key project activities: natural forest
protection (15.5), financial management (6.0), agroforestry (1.8), forest
management (3.75) and training (3.75). It is expected that the 15.5 man-
year long-term assistance and the 79 man-month short-term assistance, for



- 22 -
the Natural Forest Protection will be provided and managed by IUCN
(International Union for the Conservation of Nature). The Technical
Assistance for the DEF Reinforcement component will be provided and managed
technically by the operational Division/Service heads and administratively
by the Project Coordinator assisted by the Financial controller who may
also be assisted by a local consulting firm. It was agreed during
negotiations that DEF would try to hire consultants as much as possible
through consulting firms in ordez to alleviate the administrative load. A
summary of technical assistance requirements is presented in Annex 4 and
key terms of reference in Annex 5 (T.O.R. 1 to 10). Technical assistance
would be evaluated yearly on two main criterias a) technical effectiveness
and b) institution building effectiveness (do consultants transmit their
experience and knowledge to local staff?). Terms of reference, for each
consultant (long and short term) should mention specifically to whom local
staff consultant has an institution building responsibility. The project
would finance 24 man-years of overseas studies (para 3.10) at the graduate
level in specialties which are in short supply in Madagascar. About 12 P-
level foresters would be selected over the project period for study at the
equivalent of a Master's degree. Currently identified fields of
specialization include forest economics, natural reserve management,
agroforestry, natural forest management, sector planning and management.
Agreements would be sought during negotiations on the selection criteria
for overseas study and study tour participation, on measures to ensure
minimum permanence of returning degree holding forester. The project would
also finance some 71 man-years of training, within Madagascar, for P- and
T-level foresters of the DEF in direct support to DEF program
implementation. Additional information on Project Related Training is
provided in Annex 6.
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A.   Proiect Costs
4.01     Total project cost including taxes and physical contingencies is
estimated at US$ 22.6 million (FMG 47.2 billion). Foreign exchange
requirements estimated at US$ 14.2 (FMG 29.6 billion) would rep esent 63%
of project costs.  Base cost estimates reflect June 1987 prices _..d have
been adjusted to December 1987, the expected date of negotiations. Most
price estimates were prepared by Fanalamanga and the mission. Physical and
price contingencies over the project period are equivalent to 12% of total
base costs. For the DEF components, physical contingencies have been
estimated at 15% for civil works in remote areas and 101 for civil works in
areas accessible from the capital city. No physical contingencies have
been provided for vehicles, equipment, training and technical assistance.
For the Mangoro Plantation component, physical contigencies were 10% for
the pasture program, infrastructure maintenance and vehicule operations,
and 5% for infrastructure investments and equipments. Price contingencies
are based on expected price escalations. Price increases during the
projected disbursement period are based on the following inflation rate
estimates: for foreign costs, 1% for 1988/90, 2.25% for 91, and 3.5% for
1992/94; for local costs, 16.5% for 1988, 12.5% for 1989, and 101 for
1990/94. Project costs are detailed in Annex 7 and summarized in Table
4.1.



- 23 -
Table 4.1: Prosect Cost Summary
FMG                US$
Component                   (million)          (million)
L    FEX     T     L    FEX    T    SFEX  %BC
DEF Reinforcement          3.1   7.5   10.6   2.3   5.5   7.8    71   39
Natural Forest Protection  1.9   6.4    8.3   1.4   4.7   6.1    77   30
Mangoro Plantation         5.3   3.4    8.7   3.9   2.5   6.4    39   32
Total Baseline Costs(B.C) 10.3  17.S   27.6   7.6  12.7  20.3    63  100
Physical Contingencies      .3    .7    1.0    .2    .5    .7   69    4
Price Contingencies       7.0  11.6   18.6    .6   1.0   1.6    62    8
Total Project Costsa/      17.6  29.6   47.2   8.4  14.2  22.6    63  111
at includes taxes and duties of US$2.9 million
B.    Prolect Financina
4.02     A financing plan by major project components is presented in
Table 4.2. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 5.1 million (US$ 7.0 million
equivalent), disbursed over a period of 7 years, would be on standard
terms. It would finance 36S of total project costs net of taxes,
corresponding to 39Z of foreign exchange requirements and 101 of local
currency requirements. The IDA Credit would finance civil works, equipment
and vehicles, local training, and vehicle maintenance expenditures for the
natural forest protection component (Annex 9, Table 2). The IDA credit
would finance the Mangoro plantation component in accordance with Table 3
of Annex 9. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA
between GOM and Fanalamanga would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.03     Cofinancina.  Cofinancing has been sought following recelpt of an
official GOM request and discussions with interested donors. Interest in
cofinancing has been expressed by the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC)
and the Norwegian Ministry of Development Cooperation (NMDC). The Swiss
grant funding (US $6.5 million) would cofinance foreign exchange and part
of local currency requirements of the DEF reinforcement component and the
training component of the Natural Forest Protection Program. Norwegian
bilateral funding (US$ 2.0 million) would finance most technical assistance
costs of the forest conservation component. Both sources of funding would
be managed by the World Bank according to procedures to be agreed with each
donor. The SDC and NMDC grants, and IDA credit would be cross effective,
as a condition of effectiveness. GOM's contribution to project cost is
estimated at US$ 7.1 million including US$ 3.8 million to be made through
the investment budget (FNDE) and US$ 3.3 million of revenues from the sale
of wood from the Mangoro plantation and cost recovery from specific project
activities. During negotiations, it was agreed that a procedure would be
agreed upon by February 29, 1988 in order that the cost recovery from the
DVF Fainforcement activities ($ .5 million) be reinjected into the project.



- 24 -
(Annex 16). GOM's contribution would finance all incremental salaries and
operational costs (except vehicle maintenance) for the DEF managed
components, and a share of each expenditure for the Mangoro plantation as
indicated in Table 3 of Annex 9. Costs to be financed by beneficiaries in
the private reforestation and integrated forest valley development
components have been excluded from the financing plan; similarly, costs to
be financed with food aid from the World Food Programme in support of the
forest valley development program and the Mangoro plantation sylvicultural
program were also excluded. Annex 9 shows the proceeds of IDA credit and
of Swiss and Norway grants.
Table 4.2: inancino Plan
(USs m*llIon)
Comonent               CoM   Recovery   IDA    SC    NIDC       1 j1/
DEF Re nforcemnt        1.5      .5 C.2    6.4                   8.6
Natural Forest Protection   1.8   -       8.0     .64    2.0      6.9
Mangoro Plantation      0.5      2.8      8.8      -     -        7.1
etsl                     .8      8.8      7.6    6.5     2.0    22.6
1/ Include. texas and duties of USS 2.9 mllion paid by COM and Recovery
4.04     Provision has been made for a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance of US$ 950,000 refinanced under the Credit, to finance project
start-up activities in DEF Reinforcement: and Natural Forest Protection
components and continuity of Panalamanga operations up to June 30, 1988.
Major DEF start-up activities include the set-up of a Coordination Unit
including selection of financial advisor and staff, short term consultancies
and equipment in farest revenue systems, forest inventory, natural reserve
and site planning.



- 25 -
C.   Procurement
Table 4.3: Procurement Methods
(US$ million)
Disbursement Category                  Procurement Method             Total
ICB    LCB     Other    N.A.
I.   Civil workslland preparation   0.0    4.3       2.4               6.7
(-)   (2.2)    (1.8)             (4.0)
II.  Vehicles and Equipment          1.7    0.9                        2.6
(0.3)  (0.4)                       (.7)
III. Technical Assistance                            6.3               6.3
& Training                                    (0.7)              (.7)
IV.  Incremental Operating                                    7.0      7.0
& Administrative Costs                                 (1.6)   (1.6)
Total Costs                         1.7     5.2      8.7      7.0    22.6
(Total IDA)                       (0.3)   (2.6)    (2.5)    (1.6)   (7.0)
4.05     Main categories for procurement would be goods and civil works
(respectively 12X and 30S of base costs). Purchase of vehicles, equipment,
tools, nursery supplies and laboratory material would be packaged whenever
possible into contracts valued at US$ 50,000 and above, and would be
procured in accordance with ICB procedures. The grouping should be
organixed in order that, to the extent possible, there would not be more
than two contracts in the same year, in particular for vehicles and major
equipment. Contracts for goods for less than US$ 50,000 (aggregating to US$
0.9 million) would be procured under LCB procedures. Civil works for DEF
activities, which would be of ltmited size and distributed in different
areas of the country and spread over time (average $50,000 per contract),
are unlikely to attract international contractors and would be handled
through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA without excluding international
contractors. Road upgrading, infrastructure maintenance and sylvicultural
works in the Mangoro plantation would continue to be executed by force
account by Fanalamanga since they require small amounts, scattered and
spread over time; moreover, this arrangement has been successful during the
previous two phases. Contracts for civil works and goods, under LCB
procedures will be subjected to conditions previously agreed upon concerning
registration of bidders, public bid opening and local preference under
Credit 1661 MAG. Technical assistance and training represent 251 of base
costs. The terms of reference, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of internationally recruited experts funded by the
Credit would be according to Bank guidelines. Annex 5 gives the terms of
reference of key technical assistance staff. Procurement arrangements are
summarised In Table 4.3 and detailed In Annex 8.
4.06     Project procurement would be managed through the DEF Coordinating
Unit (para. 5.01 on Project management) and Fanalamanga. Tables indicating
expected amounts covered by various procurement procedures for each managing
unit are presented in Annex 8. Proposals for advertising, draft tender



- 26 -
documents, bid evaluation and award proposals for civil works contracts
above US$ 150,000 (LCB) and for purchases of vehicles and other goods above
US$ 100,000 (ICB) would require prior IDA review before contract award. It
is estimated that about 192 of total contract value would require such
review.
D.   Disbursements
4.07     The IDA credit would be disbursed over seven years in accordance
with the standard disburament profile for the Forestry Sector In Eastern
Africa.  The allocation of the proceeds of the IDA, Swiss, and Norway grants
is presented by component in Annex 9, Tables 1, 2, and 3. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by January 31, 1995. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is presented in Annex 10.
4.08     Three Special Accounts (one for the Swiss GrantlDEF components, one
for IDA Credit/DEF components, and one for IDA Credit/Panalamanga) would be
established in freely convertable currency at the Central Bank of Madagascar
to facilitate the flow of funds and reduce the number of withdrawal
applications. The borrower would open the three Special Accounts and upon
project effectiveness, IDA would deposit an amount equivalent to average
expenditures over a four month period which is estimated at US $660,000 for
the Swiss Grant/DEF account, to US$250,000 for the IDA credit/DEF account,
and at US$180,000 for the IDA credit/Fanalamanga account. There will be no
Special Account for the Norwegian Grant since the proceeds will pay two
long-term consultants plus short-term consultants and exponses will be paid
directly to the beneficiaries. The special accounts facility could be used
for the PPP if necessary. IDA would be the administrator of the Swiss fund.
It would review applications and instruct the Swiss National Bank to make
payments. IDA would be trustee of the Norwegian fund.
4.09     Disbursements for all items would be basod on full documentation
unless authorized for disbursement against statements of expenditure (SOE).
Disbursements against SOE vould be used to reduce the volume of
documentation between the Borrower and IDA and the length of the review
process for the following expenditures:
(a) civil works contracts costing less than US$50,000.
(b) equipment, goods, vehicles for single items or contracts
costing less than US$30,000 equivalent
(c) consulting services contracts costing less than US$30,000
equivalent.
(d) all force accounts and all operating costs and training.
SOE's will be certified by the financial advisor with approval of the DEP
Director and the Ministry of Finance for DEF components, and by the
Financial Director of Fanalamanga with approval by the Ministry of Finance
for the Mangoro plantation management component. The DEF financial advisor
would be responsible for establishing adequate SOE procedures (para. 4.11)



- 27 -
for the DEF components. The administrative and accounting capability of
Fanalamanga to prepare 80 records continues to be satisfactory. Internal
checks and controls are adequate and SOZe would be reviewed in detail
during the annual audit (para. 4.11). Supporting documentation for SOZ
would be retained by the borrower and made available for examination by IDA
supervision missions.
4.10     Countergart Fundinx.  The availability of local cou- erpart funds
at specific times and locations is a major determinant of project
implementation. Particularly in the case of tree planting which has to
occur during the rainy season, availability of funds during the first
trimester of the year is essential (para. 2.14). Because of MPAEF's poor
investment budget implementation record to date, the submission of a
proposal for the management of counterpart funds was a condition for
negotiations and the Implementation of a procedure to channel GOM funds in
a timely and efficient way is a condition of effectiveness. A deposit to
the project account of US$130,000 equivalent at the start of each quarter,
starting July 1, 1988, would be a condition of effectiveness as well.
Disbursement procedures to field operations should be clearly defined for
salaries, vehicle operational costs (other than vehicle maintenance),
office supplies and infrastructure maintenance expenditures. The
implementation of the National Forestry Fund (FFN, para. 2.14) would have a
significant impact on sector financing and could affect project financing
procedures. At negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that,
should the FFN be Introduced during project Implementations, this would be
done under term and conditions acceptable to IDA with regards to the
financial management of the project.
S.   Accounts and Audits
4.11     The DEU, through Its Coordination Unit (CU) and the support of a
financial advisor to be financed under the credit, would establish and
maintain project accounts and internal control systems in accordance with
acceptable accounting practices for all DEF components of the project.
Manuals would be prepared to assist the implementation of control systems
and of equipment control, procurement and disbursement procedures. During
the previous project, Fa.alamanga has maintained a satisfactory accounting
system and is currently implementing a management control system. Its
Financial Department would consequently continue to maintain accounts for
Mangoro plantation management activities over the project period.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DEF and Fanalamanga
would: (i) maintain records and accounts to explain all project activities;
(ll) have these accounts and SOEs, if any, audited each year by external
auditors acceptable to IDA; and (iii) submit these accounts to IDA no later
than six months after the close of the financial year.



- 28 -
V.  PROJECT MANAGKMANT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Manaaement
5.01     Ortanisation and Manatement.  The Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries
and Forestry (MPAhF) would have overall responsibility for Implementation
of the proposed project. Responsibility for execution of project
components would be delegated to DEF and Fanalamanga. A Coordination Unit
(CU) would be created within DEF to support the Implementation of DEF
project components (see chart 2). CU functions would be limited to
functions for which DEF is not currently equipped. In order to work as
much as possible within the DEF structure, the CU would not directly deal
with technical issues. It would work in close collaboration with the
Monitoring and Statistics Division (DASS) for monitoring and evaluation
activities, and each of the DEF technical services for the technical
planning and Implementation of specific project activities. The main
responsibilities of the CU would includet (a) disbursement and procurement
for DEF components; (b) accounts, audit and budget preparation; (c)
administrative matters related to project personnel and technical
assistance; (d) liaison with HPARA; (e) coordination of work program
preparation and execution; (f) compilation of semestrial progress reports.
The CU would be headed by a Project Coordinator (PC) (Annex 5, TOR 1) to be
appointed by GOM and working under the direct supervision of the DEF
Director. The DEF Director would be responsible for tho approval of work
programs and budgets. The CU would also include a financial management
staff composed of a financial advisor (Annex 5, TOR 2), an administrative
assistant, two accountants, and secretarial staff. A Training Coordinator
(para. 3.10 and Annex 5, TOR 3) would also be attached to the CU.
Appointment ol the PC and recruitment of the financial advisor and the
training coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
would be a condition of disbursement for the relevant expenditure
categories. Technical assistance would be attached to each of the relevant
DEF technical departments. Mangoro plantation activities would be managed
by Fanalamanga.
B. Implementation of Prolect Components
DEF Reinforcement
5.02     Prolect Staffing.  The Implementation of project activities
requires the assignment of DE? staff to specific functional and
geographical responsibilities (para. 3.05). This would be accomplished
through the implementation of a staffing plan presented in Annex 12 and the
adoption of measures to create a specialized work force for the purposes of
natural forest protection work. Assurances were given during negotiations
on the adoption of specific position descriptions for staff assigned to the
protection of natural forest who would be liberated from their 'general
service' obligations. A position description for reserve agents was agreed
upon at negotiations. Implementation of the staffing plan could involve
reassignments within a SPIF (Service Provincial des Eaux et Forots),



- 29 -
across SPEFs and recruitments within available budgetary positions. The
implementation of the staffing plan including the nominal assignment of
staff for each project activity and area would be a condition of
disbursement for the relevant expenditures categories. Annox 12 shows the
proposed staffing plan and the allocation of existing DEF staff to be
reallocated and local staff financed by the project.
5 03     DEF Structure. Agreement was reached at negotiations that an
'Animation' unit would be created within the Soil and Conservation Division
to support participatory initiatives (para. 3 07).  This restructuration
would be a condition of disbursement for the relevant expenditure
categories. The current Reforestation Division would remain responsible
for the development of the ZODAFARB program and for DEF plantations. Chart
2 presents the proposed DEF structure. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on the adoption of such organisational structure.
5.04     Sector Management.  The DEF Director would be responsible for the
implementation of institutional strengthening activities in the area of
sector planning and management which would be carried out by the Monitoring
and Statistics Division (DASS). Notification was received during
negotiations that two additional staff had already been appointed to this
Division. The Project would In addition finance two incremental P-level
staff to focus on sector monitoring and invastment programming (forestry
PIP and PEP). Short term experts would provide direct support in the
consolidation and development of the PIP and PEP, and monitoring and
evaluation (para. 5.19). Close cooperation is required between the DASS
and the DEPF (Direction des Etudes, Programmes et Financement) to ensure an
effective integration of planning and programming procedures at the level
of MPAEF. Formal periodic participation of regional staff should also be
enhanced for sector planning and monitoring purposes. While the financial
controller's functions would focus primarily on the project, support would
be provided on a part time basis to the Financial service of DEE (para.
3.07)   Additional support would be necessary in the event that the
National Forestry Fund becam operational during the project period (para
2.14). A short term local expert would be hired to provide recommendations
to streamline the flow of information within the DEF. Following
consultations between the DEE Director, DEF managers and MPAEF, procedural
changes would be adopted and implemented. Specific training activities
would support this implementation at both headquarters and regional levels.
Main responsibility for the implementation of forestry promotion activities
would rest with the newly created 'Animation' unit within the Soil
Conservation Division.
5.05     Human Resources Development   The project would hire a local
Training Coordinator to plan and mange the implementation of the staff
training program. The Training Coordinator will be part of the
Coordination Unit. Short-term consultancies would be provided at project
start-up to design specific course curricula and teaching techniques. Long
term technical assistance In forest management (para. 3.11), agroforestry
(para. 3.15), and forest protection (para. 3.20) would monitor development
and implementation of courses in conjunction with field activities.
Courses would be mostly given by local personnel. Contracts could in
particular be established with professors of the Agronomic School (EESSA).



- 30 -
Specific training agreements could also be envisaged with the staff of the
Swiss Village Reforestation Project. Candidates for study tours and higher
level degrees should be submitted by the DEF Director to IDA for approval.
Assurances were given during negotiations that particular attention would
be given to the balance between regional and headquarters staff for study
tours. The audience to local courses related to the AIVY components would
include selected managers and field agents of the DVA, the DIR and the DEP.
As part of its human resources development actions, the project would hire
6 P-level and 12 T-level incremental staff (see staffing plan in Annex 12).
Assurances were given during negotiations that this incremental staff would
be integrated into the DEF before the end of the fourth project year.
5.06     Pilot Forest Manatement.  The DEF would implement the forest
management activities through its Inventory and Forest Exploitation Service
(SIEF) and the concerted decentralized regional services in the field.
Coordination with the Envrgy I Household Energy Plan Study would be
important to determine the evolution of demand including the potential of
Improved charcoal burners, substitution, and fuelwood priceivolume
monitoring by the Energy Unit. During preparation of the AWSA framework
plan (para. 3.12), DEF should ensure that adequate consultation has been
set up with different interest groups such as the Ministry of Industry and
Energy, nature conservation organizations, private operators and local
government representatives. Once the AWSA framework plan would be
ctmpleted and regulations within a specific PMPA set, enforcement would be
supported through the creation of specific field teams managed and
supervised by the regional service (SPEF). Close coordination with the
AIVF pilot forest management activities at the community lovel should be
maintained in order to derive potential mechanisms to increase the
involvement of communities in the management of local natural resources.
5.07     Private Reforestation (ZODAFARB program). The Reforestation
Division of DEF would continue to be responsible for the implementation of
the ZJDAFARB program. The Malagasy delegation said that l'Arrete
Interministeriel n 3 145187 fixant lea modalites du cadre de l'"Action en
faveur de l'arbre' has been published in the Journal Officiel. Field
monitoring would be delegated to specific P-level foresters at the regional
or Circonscription level. Given the size of the Antananarivo plantation
sites, the Reforestation Division and the SPEF would jointly oversee the
execution of the ZODAFARB program in Ambato and Fihaonana. A T-level
forester (at the Triage or Cantonnement level) would be responsible for
field activities. Each ZODAFARB site would be manned by a minimum of two
T-level foresters. Because of the current shortage of experienced T-level
technicians in the DEF, the Project would hire six T-level technicians who
would gradually integrate the DEF (Annex 12). ZODAFARB field teams would
have responsibility for the logistical orgaMs.ation of each campaign,
technical support to participants and community relations. The maintenance
of positive relations among adjacent communities, participants and DEF
agents represents a major determinant of the longer term viability of each
ZODAFARB site. In order to avoid concentration of land ownership through
the ZODAFARB program, a 100 ha limit for any individual participant would
be set. Assurances that this limit would be enforced were given during
negotiations.



- 31 -
5.08     Integrated Forest Valley Development (AIVF Program).  The Soil
Conservation Division of DEF, now in charge of the AVF program (para. 3.16)
would be responsible for the program implementation. Field activities
would be structured around Technical Support Centers (TSC) where training,
demonstrations and farmers follow-up woull be done by extension agents of
DVA and DIR of MPARA and by field agents from RFSC/DEF (Regional Forestry
Soil Conservation). Integration among the different Technical Departments
would be included in a framework agreement between DEF and DVA/DIR of
HPARA. Prior to the beginning of Phase 1 (para. 3.17) a consultant will be
used to design the general model to be tested as well as the outline of the
framework agreement between DEF and MPARA. The concluding of this
agreement would be a condition of disbursement for the relevant expenditure
category.
5.09     Seed supply and Forestry Stations.  The Seeds and Forestry Station
Division would be responsible for the implementation of this component.
The Head of this Division is being assisted by an adviser financed by Swiss
bilateral aid. At the field level, each collection team would be headed by
a T-level forester who would supervise a six member team. Technical
control would be carried out from DEF headquarters with periodic field
supervision trips. One regional soed collection center would be
established each year.  Central seed management and sales would be handled
from the national DEF seed silo in Ambatobe next to Antananarivo. Forestry
stations would continue to be managed by a T-level forester accountable to
the SPEF.
5.10     Research.  DEF related research activities would be carried out by
the Forestry Research Department (DRPP) of the National Agricultural
Research Institute (FOFIFA) under contract with DEF. A framework agreement
for the project period would be established between DRFP and DEl and
Fanalamanga. This agreement would be submitted for IDA approval and its
signature would be a condition of disbursement for the relevant expenditure
category. It should specify the staff to be assigned to each activity
(both current and to be recruited) as well as his/her remuneration, the
work program of each researcher, and the material and equipment
requirements for each research activity. Assurances were given at
negotiations to this effect. DRFP would then submit a detailed annual work
program to DEF and Fanalamanga respectively along the lines of the
framework agreement. A small scale research site would be established in
Toliari including a full time research technician. A FOFIFA researcher
with short term technical assistance would be responsible for developing
experiments, supervising works and interpreting results. The Marohogo
species trial site would be implemented with labor and equipment from the
Mahajanga SPEF. FOFIFA would be responsible for the design of the trial,
close monitoring of the plantation, periodic supervision and interpretation
of results. Managers of the ZODAFARB and AIVF programs .hould ensure that
effective monitoring of soil productivity and erosion is carried out.
Natural Forest Protection
5.11     The CU and the DEF Nature Protection Service (SPN) would have
specific responsibility for the implementation of the natural forest
conservation component. The SPN would be strengthened with two additional
P-level staff who would provide support in the coordination and



- 32 -
and implementation of the broad range of natural forest conservation
projects. Such coordination would operate among reserves, donors, experts,
DEF organizational units and other GOM institutions involved in
conservation. The midterm review would include an assessment of the
different technical measures applied within the Andasibe and Ankarafantsika
reserves, and would guide the precise definition of the technical packages
to be applied in the forest reserves during the second phase (para. 3.22).
It would identify better performing technical measures implemented during
the first phase and priorities for the second phase. The midterm review
would also include an assessment of the performance of the natural forest
protection institutional structure including an assessment of the
effectiveness of Technical Assistance. Such assessment should be made in
terms of implementation authority, independence from administrative
constraints, and ability to coordinate activities. The midterm review
would constitute a basis for a donor coordination meeting which would
provide a short term action plan for the second phase. It is currently
envisaged that the reserves of Lokobe, Zahamena and Tsaratanana would be
included In the second phase of this project. A final decision on the
second phase would be taken following the midterm evaluation. The mid-term
review is planned during the fourth project year.
5.12     Reserve Staffing and Operations.  Each natural forest reserve
would be managed In the field by a Reserve Manager (P-level forester).
Considering the lmportance and the range of objectives pursued in the
Andasibe and Ankarafantsika reserves, each reserve manager would work
during six years with direct technical assistance support (see Annex 5, TOR
9). Full-time assistance would be provided during the first four years,
and half-time assistance during the fifth and sixth year. Each natural
reserve tesm would be constituted of T-level foresters, a fixed term
research staff and workers. The project would in addition hire T-level
field staff who would be progressively integrated to the DEF, contributing
to the strengthening of the currently weak conservation technical staff in
the field. Each reserve manager, in collaboration with the technical
assistant, would provide an annual work program including specific
objectives and targets to the CU through the SPN. An AIVF Technical
Support Center (cf. para. 5.08) would be set up in conjunction with the
Andasibe reserve to improve land use practices in areas surrounding the
reserve. An extension team would be formed in Ankarafantsika to reduce the
pressure on the existing forest and to integrate the reserve into the local
economy in close consultation with local communities. This team would
include, in addition to a forester, a livestock extensionist and an
agriculture extensionist to be included in the interdepartmental framework
agreements (para. 5.08). A consultative group representing the local
communities adjacent to each reserve would be established to guide and
monitor activities. Monitoring and evaluation criteria would be set up by
the research staff in collaboration with the technical assistant.
Additional support could be obtained from the Conservation Data Center in
Antananarivo currently at the planning stage, and from scientific NGO's
planning to perform specific inventories. Experts in park and site
planning would define under PPF the precise boundaries of the proposed new
National Park in the Andasibe region and provide a draft site plan of the
Park headquarters. Publication of the decree creating the new national
park would be a condition of disbursement for civil works expenditures for
the park.



- 33 -
Reorientation of the Manaoro Plantation
5.13     Fanalamanga was established in 1975 as a mixed capital company to
implement the first phase Mangoro Forestry Project and thereafter continue
the plantation program, establishing a forest industry and carrying out all
activities required for the operation and maintenance of the plantation and
the processing and marketing of its products. So far, almost all of
Fanalamanga's shares (99%) are held by GOM, the remaining 1Z being held by
the National Bank for Industrial Development (BNI), which is fully owned by
GOM. Fanalamanga reports to the Ministries of Livestock, Fisheries and
Forestry (MPAEF) and of Finance. Its organizational structure is shown on
Chart 3. The General Manager is appointed by decree at Cabinet level and
has overall responsibility for the management of all Fanalamanga's
activities. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the role of
Fanalamanga as defined in a Policy Letter. The receipt of the Policy
Letter signed by the Ministry of Tutelle is a condition of Board
Presentation. It is agreed that FANALAMANGA's objective will be to ensure
maximum private sector participation in semi-industrial wood processing
activities. To this end, FANALAMANGA will issue tendets for processing and
marketing of wood and plantation by-products; bidding procedures and
selection criteria would be developed in consultation with IDA and bid
evaluations will be available for IDA review. The Policy letter, however,
permits as a last resort FANALAMANGA'S direct involvement in processing
activities, provided this involvement does not cause any additional burden
on Government finances. Regarding large-scale industrial activities,
FANAIAMANGA is committed to seek a private partner and to prior
consultation with IDA.
5.14     Staffing.  At present, total staff numbers about 1,680.  Due to
the general activity phase-out over the project porlod (para. 2.06),
Fanalamanga staff would be gradually reduced. Assurances were included in
the Policy Letter that Lanalamanga staff would be reduced by one third
before December 31, 1988. Redundant staff would be given the option to
receive training in improved charcoaling methods in coordination with the
Energy I project or in production of hand-hewn squares.
5.15     Orzanizational Aspects.  There are currently five central
departments (sylviculture, plantation management, civil works and
engineering, finance, administration) based in Fanalamanga headquarters in
Antsiranala, near Moramanga. As plantation products become available, the
marketing process will become increasingly Important. Agreement has been
reached during negotiations on the creation of a Sales Service within the
Plantation Management Department to ensure market responsiveness of
plantation management. The appointment of a Sales Manager, acceptable to
IDA, with knowledge of Malagasy wood market and technical forest
exploitation background would be a condition of disbursement for the
relevant expenditure category. Promotional activities should take into
account current market characteristics (most potential buyers are small to
family enterprises) and could includes (a) helping individual



- 34 -
entrepreneurs, for charcoal in particular, to organize associations like
cooperatives to manufacture charcoal and/or to transport and sell it; (b)
finding structures where entrepreneurs (or their employers) can be trained
to use and maintain their equipment; (c) investing in small pilot simple
installations to attract potential clients by demonstrating technology and
the economic results they could obtain; and (d) helping potential clients
to prepare ana present sound financial reports for credit request to their
bank; (e) diffusing to its clients information about technology and market
potential and evolution. These activities would not justify the existence
of a Processing Department.
5.16     Ortanizational Unit Responsibilities.  Day-to-day operations of
the project would continue to be under the direct supervision of the
General Manager and central department heads. The Sylviculture Department,
which would be called Development Department, would be responsible for the
planning and execution of the sylviculture, inventory and part of the fire
protection programs. The Plantation Management Department, which would be
called Production Department and would include the Sales Servica, would be
in charge of promotion, sales and possible small scale processing. The
Civil Works and Engineering Department would be responsible for carrying
out road, building, firebreak, vehicle and equipment maintenance. Field
work would be carried out as now through the three geographical departments
(northern, central and southern). Research wot-ld be carried out by
DRFP/FOFIFA under contract with Fanalamanga (see para. 5.10).
5.17     Financing.  By 1994, Fanalamanga sales of wood will cover
operating costs (Annex 14, Table 4).  Before O.iat period GOM and IDA will
provide external financing according to the schedule shown in Annex 14,
para. 28. A condition of disbursement of the IDA credit will be that GOM
will have disbursed to Fanalamanga the equivalent of US$527,700 (857
million FMG) for the Fanalamanga fiscal year 1987-88.
C.   Annual Work Program
5.18     Annual work programs would represent an important planning and
monitoring project management instrument. Work programs proposals for DEF
activities would be prepared by each technical service and division. These
proposals would be submitted to the PC who would, with the assistance of
the financial advisor, examine and consolidate these proposals into an
annual DEF program proposal. The Mangoro plantation management work
programs would be prepared by Fanalamanga. The annual work program for
each activity would containt (i) an evaluation of the previous year's
performance and possible implications on the new work program; (ii) the
program of activities for the coming year including a preliminary statement
of qualitative and quantitative objectives to be reached by the end of the
year; (iii) detailed investment and operating budgets by component showing
the manpower, financial and physical resources required to execute the work
program; (iv) the procurement program and schedule; (v) a financing plan
defining financial requirements by financing source; (vi) a chronogram of
activities indicating the timing of major procurement steps; and (vii) a
training program containing a preliminary list of candidates (overseas long
term, overseas study tour, local training).



- 35 -
5.19     Work Program Calendar.  Preparation and approval of the DEF annual
work program would follow GOM's budget cycle. A consolidated DEF work
program would be submitted to IDA and Swiss (SDC) and Norwegian (NMDC)
donors before September 15 of each year for review and comments. Following
GOMt8 initial budget review, a revised work program would be formulated
reflecting comments and decisions from the review process. This revised
work program would be submitted for final review and approval to IDA and
Swiss and Norwegian Cooperation before November 30 of each year.
Fanalamanga operates on a fiscal year similar to IDA. Assurances were
given during negotiations that DEF and Fanalamanga annual work programs
would be received for preliminary review by September 30, and February 1
respectively, and for approval by November 30, and May 15 respectively.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20     The Monitoring and Statistics Division (DASS) would have main
responsibility for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the project. Two P-
level staff (para. 5.04) including an incremental staff, would be
responsible for the operation of a monitoring information system. A short
term monitoring expert would be placed in the DASS to provide direct
support to the conception and implementation of a project monitoring system
applicable to DEF programs. Staff designated with field monitoring
responsibility (Annex 12) for each activity would be responsible for
collecting and transmitting data to DASS. Long term technical assistants
would have responsibility for assisting the development of M&E measures for
their respective activities.  Monitoring data for the Maugoro Plantation
component would be provided through the inventory, research results and
activity reports of Fanalamanga. During the mid-term review of the AIVF
component (para 3.17) and of the Natural Forest Protection component (para
5.11) an assessment of the Technical assistance will be conducted.
5.21     Reporting.  DASS would prepare and provide in a form satisfactory
to IDA and SDC and NMDC progress reports twice a year. A midyear progress
report would be submitted by April 30 containing, among other informations,
data on the last planting season. A su iary yearly report would serve as
the basis for the previous year evaluation contained in the revised work
program (para. 5.18). DASS would be responsible for preparing the project
completion report six months after the completion date. Assurances was
given during negotiations that the above-mentioned documents (midyear
progress and summary yearly report) would be submitted to IDA and SDC and
NMDC for review and comments at the specified dates (para 5.19).
5.22     Midterm Review.  MPAEF would organize through DASS a joint
GOMIIDA/other donors midterm review of the project during the fourth
project year under Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA. The possibility
of combining the project midterm review with a broader sector review has
been discussed with several donors and would be pursued in the context of
upcoming meetings with donors active in forestry and environmental
conservation issues in Madagascar. Assurance was given during negotiations
that the midterm review will take place at the end of 1990 and that the
midterm review report will be submitted to IDA at the beginning of 1991.



- 36 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Production
6.01     Mantoro Plantation Attreatate Production.  The sylvicultural
program, and in particular the thinnings and pruning., would increase
sawlog production over a period of about 15 years by altogether 1.5 million
m3. Total potential roundwood production froa the areas under intensive
and semi-intensive sylvicultural treatment (para. 3.23) would be between
400,000 and 500,000 mu/year during the first six years increasing to
800,000 to 900,000 m3/year from year 7 to 9. The sustainable level of
production would then be reached at around 450,000 m3lyear. Standing
volume in the minimum maintenance area is estimated at about 1.2 million
cubic meters in year 1 and is growing at an estimated 150,000 ms/year, but
this volume has not been included into sales estimates since the cutting
and exploitation of those trees may not be considered profitable; this wood
constitutes an additional reserve which could be used for an eventual small
scale pulpuill or for carbonisation. The fire protection program, which is
the only activity over the entire plantation area, would prevent a
potential loss estimated at 5 million as over the next twenty years, mainly
smallwood.
6.02     Svecific Outputs.  Around 802 of production would be in the form
of smallwood from the thinning operations to be mainly used in the short
term for charcoal production. Full conversion to charcoal (para. 6.04)
would yield some 350,000 tons of charcoal over the project period reducing
the pressure on existing plantations and natural forests to supply the
Antananarivo market. Sawlogs suitable for industrial processing, generally
not too dispersed and with diameters above about 20 cm under bark, would,
in 1988 and 1989, be processed by two small mobile sawmills owned and
operated by wood buyers with an annual log intake capacity of about 5,000
im each. Initial sawlog production wvould be started using clearfelled
stands from the oldest untreated parts of the plantation. In 1990 and 1991,
another two mobile mills owned and operated by wood buyers would be needed
and the annual log intake would increase to about 11,000 ms. In 1992, when
the second thinnings are scheduled to begin, some 65,000 as of sawlogs are
expected to be available for industrial sawing. This is sufficient to feed
one or two sawmills operated by private operators. From 1994, when the
flow of industrial sawlogs from clearfellings would be added to that from
second thinnings, the expected volume would increase to about 107,700 ms,
increasing further to 113,400 is in 1996. This production would be
complemented by hand-hewing of sawable logs from the first thinnings. The
thinning operations, by producing trees with bigger diameters and bigger
crowns, also open up the possibility of resin-tapping in the older stands.
Total potential production over the project period is estimated at 2.86
million ms of smallwood, 383,000 ms of small sawlogs for hand-hewing and
272,000 ms for mill sawn logs. Production estimates from 1987 to 2012 for
the area under intensive and semi-intensive treatment are presented in
Annex 15, Table 1. The impact of market constraints and additional
products from the Mangoro plantation are presented in paras. 6.06 to 6.09.



- 37 -
6.03     Other Production Impacts.  While the major thrust of other project
components is oriented towards institutional strengthening, pilot
activities and natural forest protection for which direct production
benefits are difficult to quantify, several activities would yield
measurable outputs. Although the main value of Madagascar's remaining
natural forests is ecological rather than as a source of wood production,
it can be estimated that of the 450,000 ha of particularly threatened and
valuable forests that would eventually be managed under the pilot forest
management component (para. 3.11), at least 10X, or 45,000 ha, would
disappear during the seven-year implementation period in the absence of any
rational management. This area would represent a sustainable annual wood
production of about 45,000 m3. The ZODAFARB program (para. 3.15) would
resu3t in the production of more than half a million cubic meters of wood
over 30 years. The AIVF program (para. 3.16) would yield altogether an
estimated 350,000 m3 of wood, mainly fuelwood and poles, over a 25-year
period. In addition, project activities would result in an estimated
annual production of 1,300 tons of fruits and 3,000 tons of rice in the
forest valley bottoms irrigated areas. Other products would include fodder
for livestock, fish from mixed rice and fish cultivation or compost for
fertilization. The strengthened seed collection system financed under the
project (para. 3.18) would produce over the project period an estimated 680
kg of indigenous species seeds, 6.1 tons of light exotic species seeds and
4.7 tons of heavy exotic seeds.
B. Markets
6.04     Fuelwood and Charcoal.  With over a million inhabitants by 2000,
Antananarivo would remain the largest market for charcoal in Madagascar
(para. 2.04). Since significant changes in the pattern of demand for
household energy are unlikely to occur in the medium term, the charcoal
market can be expected to remain strong during the project period.
Charcoal is an increasingly important commodity in the domestic trade. The
annual quantity of charcoal used in Madagascar is estimated now to be about
90,000 tons, and it is expected to increase to about 140,000 tons by 1995,
at a-rate of 52 a year. The Antananarivo market represents some 502 of the
national market. Fanalamanga is already producing some 300,000 m0/year of
pine smallwood from its thinning operations. This could yield about 30,000
tons a year of charcoal corresponding to one third of the current
Antananarivo market which should be easily absorbed by the market.
Although charcoal for the Antananarivo domestic market appears to be the
most promising market, there is also some possibility investigated by the
Energy I project of selling 10,000 tons a year (corresponding to about
100,000 m3 of wood) of low-volatiles charcoal to the cement factory in
Antsirabe at a price considerably above the price of domestic charcoal but
inferior to the currently imported coal. According to a Bank Mining Sector
Review in Madagascar (May 1987) the potential of coal mining is uncertain.
6.05     Sawloas.  The annual consumption of sawnwood and sleepers in
Madagascar is currently estimated by FAO at 270,000 m3 increasing to
347,000 m3 in the year 2000. Current annual sawnwood consumption in the
faritany of Antananarivo, which represents the largest concentration of
demand on the domestic market, is about 100,000 ms. The Antananarivo



- 38 -
market is expected to grow at no less than 32 a year so that sawn wood
consumption would reach 164,000 ms by 2000. The share of pine wood is
estimated currently at around 402 corresponding to 42,000 m3/year. The
pine share will undoubtedly further Increase as wood from previous
plantations disappears and wood from the natural forest becomes more
inaccessible. In the absence of any other large scale ongoing plantation
on the high plateau around Antananarivo, Fanalamanga's share of the sawn
wood market is estimated to reach 110,000 as in 2000, equivalent to 220,000
m3 of sawnwood. A similar development has taken place in other countries
with both Indigenous forests and coniferous plantations, like Kenya, where
the vast majority of sawnwood Is currently derived from coniferous
plantations.
6.06     Exort.  Besides the local market, there are also export
possibilities. The Mangoro plantation is connected by rail and road to the
country's main port of Toamasina. The principal foreign markets would be
Reunion, Mauritius, Comoros, and tho Middle East. It is estimated that the
export volume could amount to 10% of Fanalamanga's domestic market share.
As a resilt of the expected growth in Madagascar's total sawnwood
consumption, its increasing proportion of pine, and exports amounting to
10t of local sales, Fanalamanga's expected total varket share has been
estimated at:
Year             m3 sawnwood      Corresponding sawloR volume. m3
1990                82,000                   164,000
1995                95,000                   190,000
2000               110,000                   220,000
6.07     Short term prospects.  By 1990, Fanalamanga is expected to produce
62,500 m3 of sawlogs corresponding to part of its potential market share to
reflect a progressive increase of productive capacity (para. 6.02). By
1995 it Is assumed that its total potential market share would be taken up.
In the financial and economic analyses the sawlog output has been set equal
to the market share, not to the productive potential, which is greater. Of
Fanal     e.ga's estimated market for 110,000 m3 of sawnwood in year 2000, the
100,000 m1 which the sawmilling firm would buy from Fanalamanga and sell on
the local market represents 29Z of the total expected consumption of
347,0O0m3. The remainder would come from the Haute Matsiatra pine
plantation near Fianarantsoa, and from natural forests and sm.
plantations throughout the country.
6.08     Pulpwood.  The Papeteries de Madagascar (PAPMAD), a mechanical
pulpmill near Antananarivo, which utilises 30,000 m3 of pulpwood a year,
has in the past bought small quantities of pine thinnings from Panalamanga
on a trial basis. This may become a small but regular outlet in the
future, as PAPMAD's production increases to keep up with the local demand.
PAPMAD is currently investigating the financial viability of a small
chemical pulpmaill for import substitution.
6.09     Other.  By 1997, when Fanalamanga's oldest treated plantations
will be about 25 years, some of the trees will have reached diameters where
they could be used as peeler logs for the manufacture of plywood. Resin
tapping appears to be a promising form of utilisation for the Mangoro
plantation as It offers the possibility of foreign currency earnings



- 39 -
combined with low capital expenditures and high labor intensity.
Madagascar could become a major low cost producer. Tapping techniques
remain however to be tested.  Building poles, transmission poles, and  :od
for the existing fiberboard mill (currently 2,000 ms of pine smallwood) at
Moramanga represent other possible, but limited markets.
6.10     Markets for products of proiect activities other than Manftoro.
The sustainable annual wood production of at least about 45,000 m3 that
would be saved as a result of the natural forest protection activities
would consist partly of relatively valuable exportable furniture and veneer
timbers, partly of utility grade sawnwood for the local market, and partly
of fuelwood. The 500,000 m3 of mainly fuelwood which the ZODAFARB program
would produce over the next 30 years correspond to about 2,000 tons p.a. of
charcoal, or less than 1% of the present Malagasy consumption, and could be
easily absorbed. The seed supply program could eventually lead to an
annual collection rate of up to about two tons of seed, corresponding to
about 120 million seedlings p.a., or a planting rate of 60,000 ha. A large
part of this seed would have to be exported. ln species like Pinus kesiya,
which would make up the major part of the seed, Madagascar has a relative
advantage because of its extensive seed orchard at Mangoro and a remarkably
good seed stand at Fianarantsoa; however, export presupposes selection and
high quality control. The project is financing five collecting seed
stations and the quality control will be done under the ongoing Swiss
bilateral project (para. 3.18). The approximately 3,000 tons p.a. of rice
that would be produced under the AIVF program should be readily absorbable
by the local population. Although Madagascar is going through a stage of
underconsumption, the fruit, fodder and fuelwood that would also be
produced under the AIVF program should find a ready and much needed market
with the local population. In Annex 16, Cost Recovery, revenues from sales
of rice, fruits, fodder and fuelwood have not been taken into account,
since those revenues are agricultural and not forestry such as stumpage
rate, or tree and seedling sales.
C. Prices
6.11     It is assumed that stumpage rates for standing timber used in the
financial analysis of the Mangoro plantation are FMG 4,0001m3 for hand-sawn
logs, FMG 6,000/m3 for mobile mill-sawn logs (second thinning), and FMG
10#000/m3 for fixed sawmill (final felling). These are based on free
market prices observed in the Antananarivo area. Stumpage rate for
smallwood (for fuelwood) used in the financial analysis is FMG 400/m3 based
also on observation of Antananarivo market prices. These stumpage rates
are conservative since it appears that Fanalamanga would be able to sell
its wood for FMG 640 to 1140 per m3 to private charcoalers. The World
Bank's Energy I Appraisal Mission in December 1986 similarly estimated that
the financial rate of return of charcoal-making would be satisfactory if
charcoalers could buy wood at FMG 6151m3. The price of FMG 400/m3 used in
the analysis is thus conservative, especially when considering that this
price is not a stumpage price as such, but the price which the charcoalers
would pay for wood which has already been felled as part of the thinning
operation, and is lying on the ground. Hand-sawn pinewood squares of 15 x
15 cm sell in Antananarivo for about 1MG 50,000/m3. Deducting 20% for



- 40 -
dealer's profit, FMG 13,000/m3 for transport from Mangoro to Antananarivo,
and FMG 15,000/m3s (cubic meter of sawnwood) for the sawing, the net value
iU the Mangoro would be FMG 12,000/m3s. At about 2.5 m3r (cubic meters of
roundwood) per m3s (cubic meter sawnwood), the corresponding value per m3r
is FMG 4,800 (see annex 15 for further detaill. In order not to
overestimate benefits, a value of FMG 4,000/mJr has been used in the
analysis. As in the case of smallwood, this price is for wood which has
already been felled as part of the thinning operations. A local sawmill,
SIB, has offered Fanalamanga FMG 10,000/m3 for the small sawlogs that the
plantation is already producing, delivered at its mill in Moramanga.
Subtracting the costs of felling, crosscutting, debranching, log extraction
to forest road, and transport to the sawmill, the corresponding stumpage
value is about FMG 6,000/m3, which is the price used in the analysis for
the relatively small sawlogs which will be produced until the second
thinnings begin in 1992. As some of the logs will in fact already have
been felled in the thinnings, this stumpage value is conservative.
Sawnwood to be produced by a sawmill at Mangoro would fetch a price of FMG
60,000 to 65,000 per m3 on the Antananarivo market. FAO/CP estimated the
corresponding stumpage value of sawlogs in Fanalamanga's plantation at FMG
13,000/m3.  A conservative value of FMG 10,000/m3 has been used in the rate
of return analysis for the sawlogs which would be produced from 1992
onwards, when the second thinnings are due to commence.
D. Financial Analysis of Fanalamanta
6.12     Financial structure.  The enterprise was created in 1975 as a
mixed capital enterprise with an initial capital of 500 million FMG which
has not been increased since. Up to June 30, 1987, Fanalamanga had
invested in new plantation and in maintaining the existing forest, but has
had no revenues. All investments and operating expenses have so far been
financed by GOM loans lent to Fanalamanaga at 122 interest a year. GOM
financing sources for its loans to Fanalamanga have been the national
investment budget (FNDE), BADEA and IDA's two preceding credits (para. 1.15
and 1.16). In order to correct the abnormally low ratio of capital to
asset volume, and to reflect GOM's actual ownership in terms of percentage
of capital, it is recommended that all present long term debts owned
directly (as such in the balance sheet) or indirectly ("comptes des
associes' who is a GOM Bank) be transferred into the capital of
Fanalamanga. The conversion of FMG 27.8 billion of Fanalamanga debt into
equity would be a condition of effectiveness.
6.13     Treatment of Future Long-term Loans.  Starting in 1987-88,
Fanalamanga would increase its sales of wood to reach an annual sales
ceiling of about FMG 3 billion by 2010. Until 1993/94, sales would not be
sufficient to cover costs and a long-term loan will be needed. These new
loans from GOM would be considered as loans to be reimbursed by Fanalamanga
to GOM with a positive interest (12X per annum) over 20 years with a grace
period (for the principal) of 7 years. During the grace periods of these
new loans, the interest due by Fanalamanga to GOM would be considered as
supplementary capital inflows by GOM and will also increase fixed assets
(frais d'etablissement) by the same amount.



- 41 -
6.14     Dividend Policy.  Starting in 1994-95, Fanalamanga is expected to
be able to pay dividends to GOM.  By that time, GOM and Fanalamanga
management will have had to determine, with the agreement of IDA, the use
of those net revenues which may be: (a) either transferred to GOM as
dividend or, (b) partially reinvested in Fanalamanga.
6.15     Financial Analysis.  Fanalamanga will need to borrow money from
GOM during the seven first years (up to 1993/94) for a total amount of 8.5
billion FMG ($4.3 million).  These loans will be reimbursed to GOM, over a
20 year period with 7 years of grace and with an interest equal to 1101 of
IBRD rate, foreign exchange risk being born by Fanalamanga. Profits from
operation would increase from 13% of sales in 1994/95 to 32% in 1998/99.
Detailed information is presented in Annex 14.
E. Cost Recovery
6.16     Fanalamanuta Component.  Sales estimates in both volume and price
are conservative (see Annex 14 Table 3) for two reasonst (a)the local
markets (volumes and prices) depend on uncertain national economic growth
trends and private sector enterprises which would be potential customers
(sawmills, furniture manufacturers and builders) are hesitant to invest;
and (b) Madagascar is rather new in the forest product export market.
However, the July 1987 currency devaluation may help exporters if local
inflation is maintained at a reasonable level.
6.17     AIVF and ZODAFARB.  The proposed component would finance nurseries
in each of the selected Technical Support Center. Each will produce forest
tree seedlings that will be sold to villagers at the beginning of the
project for 1 FMG a piece and then at a higher price as demand and interest
of villagers rise. For the time being, seedlings are given free to
villagers. It has been requested to GOM, as a condition of effectiveness,
to modify this policy (para. 3.15). Sales are planned to be near 600,000
seedlings per year until 1990 and 650,000 per year later.
6.18     Seed supply.  Since Madagascar is not yet known as a forest tree
seed exporter, only about 251 of the production is expected to be exported
during the project period. It is suggested to: (a) keep the current export
price, even after the recent devaluation, in order to help penetrate the
export market; and (b) increase the selling price for the local market up
to 501 of the export price in order to better reflect production costs.
6.19     Forest Manatement. This component aims at increasing the effective
stumpage rates and the collection rate of stumpage fees primarily in the
Antananarivo Wood Supply Area (AWSA). Improved management of forest
exploitation would focus on the Manjakandriana eucalyptus plantation area
and in the eastetn natural forest. It is assumed that, by year 7 of the
project, the collection rate would be accessible to capital city increased
from 401 to 801 of actual felling (that is that fraud will decrease from
602 to 20%X, that the average stumpage rate would be increased by 401, from
FMG 1000/m3 to FMG 1400/m3, and that, as a result, the felling in the
natural forest of the AWSA would decrease by 201.



- 42 -
6.20     Government Cash Flow. The Government net cash flow becomes
positive after year 9 (1997) essentially due to (a) Swiss and Norway grant
money, (b) Fanalamanga payback and dividends, and (c) stumpage rate and tax
collection. All costs were comprised of both revenue-generating components
(para. 6.16 to 6.20 above), and also of components without revenues (DEF
reinforcement, natural forest protection). For the natural forestry
protection, no revenues have been estimated from tourism (para. 3.21).
Detailed information is presented in Annex 17.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
7.01     The proposed project would significantly contribut. to the
management and protection of Madagascar's forests which are of significant
ecological value and play an important watershed protection and soil
conservation role in a country characterized by its rugged relief. It
would foster the development of agroforestry and participatory approaches
to rural forestry which would represent important instruments to promote
forest and soil conservation activities. The project would also result in
increased private participation in reforestation multiplying the catalytic
function to be increasingly adopted by DEP considering its limited
financial and human resources. Finally, the rehabilitation of DEF to be
achieved through this project would increase its absorptive capacity for
future actions which are urgently needed, considering the conditions and
the significance of forests to Madagascar's long term sustainable
development.
Main benefits from the proposed project would consist of:
(a)   ecological benefits from the preservation of ecosystems and
biological species unique to Madagascar;
(b)   long term impacts of effective forestry management in terms
of improved forest productivity and conservation of
productive lands and watersheds;
(c)   institutional development benefits from the increased sector
management and field execution capacity of the DEF;
(d)   incremental production of fuelwood, foodcrop and other
agroforestry products by both urban and rural populations
participating in private reforestation, and integrated
forest valley development programs;; GOM's ZODAFARB program
would benefit the rural poor by giving them access to land
and income-generating activities; and
(e) incremental wood production from the Mangoro plantation for
domestic sawlog and charcoal market supply and export.
7.02     The quantifiable benefits of the project result from the
incremental production of the Mangoro plantation management component. The



- 43 -
expected stream of financial and economic benefits is based on conservative
estimates of sales volumes and selling prices of quality logs for
industrial sawing. Results of the economic analysis are presented in
Section VII C and in Annex 15.
B. Environmental Impact
7.03.    The proposed project is part of a forest conservation program
among different donors and environmental NGO's to protect a representative
set of key ecosystems (Annex 3). The project aims at protecting the
largest remaining portion of semi-deciduous forest remaining in the west
(Ankarafantsika) and would create a new National Park into a significant
area of the eastern rain forest. During the second phase of the Natural
Forest Protection component of the project, protection would focus in
northern forests and an additional reserve In the eastern forest. The
project represents also a first substantial action oriented program
contributing to assess the relative performance of different types of
reserve management activities and to develop human resources needed for
future environmental programs in Madagascar. An IDA environmental
specialist accompanied the pre-appraisal mission, with the purpose of
developing an environmental action plan for Madagascar. This work, which
is being integrated in the Environmental Assessment currently underway for
Madagascar, is intended to serve as a guide for addressing the
environmental aspects of development, particularly in the context of
multilateral and bilateral assistance programs. The proposed project
reflects many of the key recommendations of this work, including: (a)
building national capacity to plan, implement, evaluate and monitor
environmental aspects of development projects; (b) focusing protection
resources on priority areas of natural forest; (c) using pilot projects to
lay the groundwork for larger-scale interventions; (d) responding to
specific regional conditions and needs; (d) accelerating application of
research results; ard (e) emphasizing local participaticQ in design and
implementation of conservation and development projects.
C.   Economic Analysis (Mansoro Plantation)
7.04     An overall economic rate of return (ERR) has not been estimated
for the project because the benefits derived from the Natural Forest
Protection and DEF Reinforcement components are long-term in nature and
difficult to quantify. An analysis of the economic viability of the
Mbagoro Plantation Component was carried out. taking into account the
proposed incremental investment and recurrent costs as well as the expected
incremental wood production revenues. The "with project' investment and
recurrent expenditures involved in the analysis consisted of those required
to support the activities of the sylviculture, inventory, fire protection,
pasture, and research programs, and the corresponding infrastructure,
equipment, training and administrative costs (Annex 15, table 2). In the
"without project" case, the only production-related activity considered was
fire protection. Thus, all direct costs of the fire protection scheme were
included in the analysis "without-project" in addition to an estimated



- 44 -
proportion of the required investment, maintenance and supervision overhead
costs (i.e., 302 of infrastructure, vehicles, general operation and
salaries). Physical contingencies considered were 10 2 for the pasture
program, infrastructure maintenance, and vehicle operation; and 5 2 for
infrastructure investment and equipment. On the benefits side, it was
assumed that the production values of hand-sawn and small wood would be the
same for both the "with" and "without" project cases. The incremental
production due to the project consisted only of higher quality logs for
industrial sawing (Annex 15, Table 1). All the above costs were adjusted
to reflect prevailing relative economic scarities of factors of production
in Madagascar, according to the following assumptionss3
(a) the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was estimated at 512
of the actual wage, which better reflects the rural labor
market conditions in Moramanga, the zone of the project;
(b) project inputs that consist largely of imported components
such as vehicles and equipment were valued at their
appropriate CIF border prices. All local costs that represent
non-traded goods and services were adjusted to border prices
by using the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.509.
7.05     The economic benefits of the project were estimated on the basis
of the standing economic value of the pine logs for industrial sawing and
their market volume potential. The standing value of logs was derived from
the expected F.O.B. price, reflecting Madagascar's competitive situation in
the international wood market (Annex 15, Table 3). On the basis of the
above assumptions and a project life of 25 years, the economic rate of
return was estimted to be 552. This relatively high rate of return is not
very meaningful considering the high sunk cost of the first two Forestry
projects, but shows how the incremental investment in the Mangoro
plantation contributes to produce an increased volume of a more valuable
product. Detailed tables are presented in Annex 15.
D. Sensitivity Analysis (Mangoro Plantation)
7.06     Switching values were calculated at a discount rate of 81 which
was assumed to be the opportunity cost of capital in Madagascar, and
sensitivity tests were carried out to determine how the project would
respond to changes in the value of key variables. The results are
summarised below.
Test                                      ERR
Total cost up 102                           51.92
Total benefits down 102                     51.51
Total benefits down 201                     47.91
Benefits delayed 2 years                    36.91
Benefits delayed 2 years and                35.21
costs up 101
3/Based on: Madagascar: Economic Parameters Study, World Bank, February
1987



- 45 -
7.07     The relevance of the sensitivity analysis of the Mangoro
Plantation profitability is lowered by the high sunk cost, but the
switching values test shows that benefits would have to decrease by 89S or
costs increase by 8482 for the net present value of the project, discounted
at the opportunity cost of capital of 8% to fall to zero. These severe
changes in benefits and costs are very unlikely to take place and, thus,
the above results further reinforce the attractiveness of the investment.
E. Proiect Risks
7.08     Major risks which could affect project activities and benefits are
presented below together with managerial measures to diminish them:
(a) insufficient enforcement would jeopardize effectiveness of
forest management and conservation activities, depress wood-
product prices, thereby reducing both benefits from the
Mangoro plantation and incentives for private afforestation.
Measures for improved enforcement: mobility, monitoring of
individual agents, task structuring, and work programs;
(b) further stagnation of investment and economic growth would
affect the timing of establishing private processing
facilities around the Mangoro plantation perimeter.
Conservative estimates have been used in analysis and
particular emphasis given to Fanalamanga promotion
activities;
(c)   delays in turning forestry agents from an authoritarian mode
to a community participation mode would affect level and
depth of comunity involvement in participatory activities.
Incremental staff specialized in extension and intensive
training program have been included in the project to
enhance community involvement;
(d)   inadequate management of sector and project activities at
senior levels could lead to lack of personnel stability and
procedural delays affecting institutional development and
field program implementation results. Project emphasis on
task and geographical selectivity to favor monitoring, on
financial control and on human resource development aim at
reducing these risks.



- 46 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
8.01     Conditions of negotiations were:
(a) submission of a proposal for management of counterpart funds
by GOM specifying type of account to be established for
counterpart funds and procedures for disbursement to field
operations (para. 4.10); and,
(b) submission of draft Fanalamanga policy letter (para. 5.13 and
5.14).
8.02     The following agreements with the borrower were reached during
negotiations:
(a) MPAEF would annually submit, for review and approval, a 3-year
rolling sector Public Expenditures Program starting with the
1989-1991 cycle and each new forestry project above US$ 3
million before initiation (para. 3.07);
(b) the stumpage rate from DEF plantations would be revised to
market rates in order to bring consistency between Fanalamanga
and DEF stumpage rates (para. 3.14);
(c) calendar for definition and implementation of appropriate
changes in forest revenue systems for the natural forests
including possible modifications of the collection system and
forest exploitation regulations, and increases in stumpage
rates would be implemented following recommendations of the
technical assistance, DEF analysis and IDA review (para.
3.14);
(d) seed pricing table and pricing adjustment (para. 3.18);
(e) the need to assist the project in managing the Technical
Assistance (para. 3.25);
(f) procedure for transferring DEF activity cost recovery to DEF
budget (para. 4.03);
(g) b-fore implementation of the Fonds Forestier National, the
borrower would submit to IDA for approval measures to be
taken with regards to the financial management of the project
(para. 4.10);
(h) DEF would: (i) maintain records and accounts to explain all
project activities; (ii) have these accounts and SOEs, if any,
audited each year by external auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(iii) submit these accounts to IDA no later than six months
after the close of the financial year (para. 4.11);
(i) organizational adjustments of DEF structure and timetable for
Implementation (para. 5.01 and 5.03)



- 47 -
(j) specific job description for staff assigned to the protection
of natural forest program (para. 5.02);
(k) timetable, selection procedure, and commitment of staffing
plan implementation (para. 5.02)
(1) addition of two staff to the DASS Division (para. 5.04);
(m) selection criteria for overseas study and study tour
participation, measures to ensure minimum permanence of
returning degree-holding foresters, and measures to ensure
equal opportunities for both regional and headquarters staff
for study tour participation (para. 5.05);
(n) incremental staff would be integrated into the DEF before the
end of the fourth project year as specified on staffing plan
(para. 5.05);
(o) the size limit for individual participation in the ZODAPARB
program supported by the project would be limited to 100 ha
per participant (para. 5.07);
(p) DEF annual work programs would be received for preliminary
review by September 15 and for approval by November 30 (para.
5.19); and,
(q) terms of reference of the mid-term review would be submitted
to IDA for approval by end of 1990 together with a proposed
staffing plan, and the mid-term review report would be
submitted to IDA by early 1991 (para. 5.22);
8.03     The following agreements were reached with Fanalamanga during
negotiations:
(a) Fanalamangs would: (i) maintain records and accounts to
explain all project activities; (ii) have these accounts and
SOEs, if any, audited each year by external auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (iii) submit these accounts to IDA no
later than six months after the close of the financial year
(para. 4.11); and,
(b) Fanalamanga annual work programs would be received for
preliminary review by February 1 and for approval by May 15 of
each year (para 5.19);
8.04     Documents agreed during negotiations includes
(a) a Policy Letter specifying the role of Fanalamanga and the
staff level ceiling (para. 5.13); and,
(b) a staffing plan specifying staff sources (para. 5.14).



- 48 -
8.05     A condition of Board Presentation is the receipt of the signed
Policy Letter concerning Fanalamanga.
8.06     Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) abrogation of arrete 4172/85 concerning free cession of
seedlings (pare. 3.15);
(b) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Borrower and Fanalamanga (para.
4.02);
(c) the grants from the Swiss Development Cooperation and from the
Norwegian Ministry of Development Cooperation would be cross-
effective with the IDA Credit (para. 4.03)
(d) implementation of GOM counterpart funding procedure and
deposit amount to the project account (para. 4.10); and,
(e) the conversion of FMG 27.8 billion of Fanalamanga debt into
equity (para. 6.12).
8.07     Conditions of disbursement would be:
a. for the DEF Reinforcement and the Natural Forest Protection
components (all costs)s
(i) appointment of the project coordinator and recruitment of the
financial advisor management staff and the Training
Coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA (para. 5.01);
(ii) implementation of the staffing plan including the nominal
assignment of staff for each project activity and area (para.
5.02);
(ill) creation of an Animation Unit within the Soil and Conservation
Division (para. 5.03);
(iv) concluding of arrangements between DEF and DVA/MPARA and
DIR/MPARA (para. 5.08); and,
(v) signing of contract with FOFIFA and DEF approved by IDA (para.
5.10);
b. for the civil works of the National Park near Andasibe: the
publication of the decree creating the Park (para. 5.12).
c* for the Fanalamanga component:



- 49 -
(i) creation of a Sales Service within the Plantation Manage_ nt
Department and appointment of a Sales Manager subject to IDA
approval (para 5.15); and
(it) full disbursement of loan by GOM to Panalamanga of US$527.700
equivalent (FMG 857 million) for the Fanalamanga fiscal year
1987188 (para. 5.17).
8.08     Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 5.1 million (US$ 7.0 million
equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.



MADAGASCAR
Third Forestry Project
DEF Staffing 1986
Classification                 CENTRAL    TANA    ANT         FIA    MAR       TOA      TOL      Total
-  Ingenieurs*                      17        7        4        8        6        7        7      56
- Adjoints techniques *             16       27       10       18       10       21       13      115
- Agents techniques**                5       44       27       61       32       43       39      251
_                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Surveillants***                    3        3        3        1        7        6        0       23
- Adjoints d'administration          1        0        0        0        0        0        0        1
- Assistants d'administration        7       11        3        8        4        2        5       40
- Employes d'administration         12        6        4        2        5       10        3       42
- EFA                               13       16       10       14        7       14       11       85
- Adjoints de service                1        2        0        0        0        1       0        4
- Assistants de service              4        2        3       19        0        9       0       37
- Employes de service                0        7        7       15        7       13        2      51
- ELD                               42       27       14       17       14       31      18      163
TOTAL                         121      152       85      163       92      157       98      868
*   s corresponding to P-level (professional) in text
**  : corresponding to T-level (technical) in text
t corresponding to S-level (unskilled) in text
CENTRAL: DEF headquarters
TANA   : Faritany Antananarivo
ANT    s Faritany Antairanana
FIA    s Faritany Fianarantsoa
MAH    s Faritany Mahajanga
TOA    s Faritany Toamasina
TOL    t Faritany Toliara



- 0_ 1s * asw
1972    1973    1974      1975    1i7n    1to"       1570    197       1,10    t11       :101    11W       I1I0    1ow       16       1
Lt.       bdgst t;_.                                                                                      _        _
r3151 Fea. dl.... .,.;-..S  ..       ..    20560   lOOse   485         One.   ss    sass    tsos _           _ on     msSD 14112    L_03   ITIM        1W    34
523121 o7.um;lu.                           2 .'l.  S0 o  us7    ie   t 225    QOW    3000   40073 ias            aa m0s. asgm                ame     amo                gms as
31531 bot.tkae  E. boVmt.est   1577        1550     17515                      45l      4050    Us.    1am        150      lO       3126     a6m    IDOlS               gm0
W2921 Truagpeet a I listorloor                               Us.    7W         TOW      Gm0      as.    Is         714    2419   lO3IS    aM          MM      1616     IT500
0   z deo asASealed op tlasg bude oselewkd wIl  egmf Is 2Wtiatm
.  miag. d1rmwUg bp Wm. MlooItry
see Iapreas e asy creditamened bp OW oboe   Is wet 0om dmeet.Slaudo to
Files bwd.oki
#7"



'I' 
Oc6t      011011t 062t1  amopt 00osnn   ta O*Z          : tsun    o no9  zt*e9 tS nt 0t80     am"   *6060 80    6 6                           668V   8961t 1 6  L                 ISS 
et      II        6         et       As        a         1       n        0         n1       n        St       0         0t       Ot       01       0          J0A 0A5W 4j9I
31       cgs1    oowa   00oOm    000t 61  OUtt    06o 1l6t O 6             at   "6lft   006261            ml    u       NnO ele    2O*    tOpO"    0                 t     O{ti
0001101    tO/IL
*        0*091H    00a 02    O0     000      000    00                     0206   000                                                                                     00110A oo4o011t440006 -e " -
6        2    *                 S             1t    *t       n   t   tt            11    *           6        6         1        2        2     *             d0.AI.w/q
to/"
11196 0u0e 0et   "ml   0o0o0                  ooet       loca     cn9     cm33     00        a0       00'e                                                                                    -on,J "
*        60661o                              0*                                    1916MM     00O000                              616      80        00oot01400 -U6100 * 0
4        61'  0000         0000    0006    06618       000        01      OL?   00          005      001       003     0001      61       911       696     016It  n9  ent it  v    0e20I
6          mom oe 2         o1e       6        0e6      9    t  o0 e e # SO          Mt t 1m          0O    UO    0t 09                   SOW       "'WI
11   0606  a00m    000106   06006    000216   00018    0620          0690      000T    0061    00m0    006          02       11       066     99       0069                            -3w206  *
10/St
1   6065    000oN00 OoLl                           0oo=    369      61Wm    60006      002       01       001      02       09        63      06 0M                                     -0100l   a
twos
n ~~~~cot    mme coee   _sg                        Nt    "oon        out       m         ow      OO       cow       coC  O"U            m        o    _c        _ ! '4ODf   t e SOo"
n   _     oem                pm    *cow           mI-000 SB               *em      D e ounG ooeti       M      Aom    A"" I  GnM                    no" * ot  t               3eFos  * ttto/09
ot u tetootm   Ooeor _OO    oA                CM    tg    tt _O            MO  #0             n        mS               tow   90tTt         O9      $61      oomt                            -*--t -at 
*        000O6o o0u0       0061      A        Goo6 00061    0000?                                                                                                     01mmIuI IA 0'A S90ctw,-3gp"  0
*                                                                                                                                                                                    69/14 n      s   e   *   Ot  n   s   s   o   s   *MC  S 1t"n
1   2062    039                 00        0*       02      00       65         06       051     60       00         00       13      05  0000069 I09'  -301:26  0
t 0Ut6                                                           800   _O61eo   00 0am      026m   0036? 0mu a  0m066    0sun    ...               am8    0 -                      e -
mUd 801-6201                                                                                                                                                           0eo eC _t 4010096L  9  a  te t   a  St a  O  1"e2/*
*S IIO     OM0      OM?    1601        9001     160      860       169A0*            021      601      501        OI    fOW         01       *01     64
(0001 slOto/Co
*MO s    'WU   AM         91         Mt      tmt    tftt        ats      tFt      saw       ut       In       U*t        tG      Uot      *49t       t6     U6t_ 
'-t 6
-        w -
noun soulme no~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-54-
Annex 2
Table 3
Foretry Seor PuSi iweet.et Pfrtor   I9l-14*9
FOm Wi Il left)
t~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(l ejl  ll e e)
Project                 Lom            I.               Glrsflt
Pl ftehaim    AC     AEl       C         1           Totl
Re'refoestaton          U1
Ntloesi rdefresXebe           151U                                  1tt5         #261      11 UAI FlAGS
SzI*  morw"eset               4C0                                    l9 1029                4 USAID P-U4O1MAURLA
foreati etatio. rehab
Seed Production               29                                     32      m     n        1 tRMJA
Village forestry               139                         107       so           8         It Ss
STO  I       gm          0         0       107     1742         4231       16
eTaT                     0 O       0        3        41           100
tOUStIA PLAWATION
bIw'Mlas PlXatIon              2U                                     S            s1       0 pO  JMP
1hbm, ,luItetilo             2M0                                     164          434       2
Iseeocty                      141       12303                                               1 CCM 2PAII
Thld fostry Project         347                           151       482         4418      38 10Al~PIFAOjf
C"_  Aers     stry           g064      m                                         469        19 Af OS
vablamakerstro  m                                  6"~~~~147    2786      12 PRO OOWAW
Amp"t o plsetetloe             90                                     6           166        I SWISS
vWOWmrlgtstudy                 is                                    34            82       0
Ta _peketa  Plntaltion        2s                                    114           14        1
SToal        66       2497         0       11      a"4           247       3
ISTt           as       20         0        2        17   0       100       0
*5'8TTItN
fores laOto                    74                                   MS            382       1 PAC FRANCI
w       1ft.oe Forestry       192                                    196          50        2 MAC MAN
Tratlat C_eau
woroadows peftetty            II                                                  4e4       : FCt $vim
Tralning Center
Ualfoeat fouestrj             215                                   m             94        4 SISS
Tr!Ialeg Center
-          57.61ST0 I               0         0       us      125           1200       9
pol            15        0         0        16        6   0      100        0
Vaerae Prtlen                 '70                                  417          1197 5? VC EANCE
Los Alsotra
Vsterehwd Protetlo                                                   10            ro       0 UoP   owl PiU Z FLA
Takes,
Water"" Pretiee               300                                    SW           480       2 WMPF     OTW RhCIUSL   PUII0
Srlugf   figtling             as                                    18           gm         I AUIA
forest Valley                 151                                   1&            404       2 IIUD PLU
Ofo nlo -I
lelta, projec                 545                          it5   t126                       4 Wa
Ss.geaetic lnreVemt           1                                    29            466       2 MP
SolI    .r,utlon              1n                                      99                    1 PeC
beveory of threat...d          74                                   15            9         1
te*n  VW flees
Soil Inventory                                   119                1a           1i6        IAC
Protstodar                     5                                    1 24          16        1
ST7  1       1842        0       11        115     1943         4739       go
SPot           54        0         3                 4 41   0    100
Third  retry Pret             42                                    84            m         3 IAISSIINWAY
OTJAL       11901t 1826    8a0m                                28849      100
Weot           so        11        1        4        35   0       100
B eoire  reouces
SEA: reuete



-55-
Annex 3
MADAGASCAR
Third forestry Proiect
Current Protected Areas Activities
Protected Area       Strict Nature            Donor              Coments
Reserve J
EASS
Masoala                 RN 2              Missouri Botanical Degazetted in 1964
Zoological Park     Gazettment Project
Group
Tsaratanana             RN 4                  IDAINOR         Phase 2. Forestry III
includes hanongarivo
classified forest
Andringitra             RN 5                  WWF             Start 1987
Andohahela              RN 11                 USAID           Start 1987
Marojejy                RN 12                 WWF             Start 1987
Andasibe              National Park           IDAINOR         Phase 1. Forestry III
to be created.
Mananara              Biosphere reserve       FAC             Recently approved
Ranomafana                                  Scientific        Initial preparation
community
Montagne d'A=bre      National Park            WWF            Includes Analamera
and Aniarana
Start 1987
WEST
Lokobe,                 RN 6                   IDAINOR        Phase 2. Forestry III
Ancarafantsika          RN 7                   IDAINOR        Phase t. Forestry III
Namoroka                RN 8                     _            Natural protection
Bemaraha                RN 9                     _            Natural protection
Analabe               Private reserve          WF
Mont. Frangais                                 Wm             No protection status
SOUTH
Beza Mahafaly                                  USAID          Ongoing since 1977
Tsimnsampetsotsa        RNIO                                  Natural protection
Morondava area                                 WF             Possible involvement
CRS
CRS s Catholic Relief Service
FAC: Fonds Aide Cooporation - France
NOR s Norway
USAID s United States Agency for International Development
WWF : World Wildlife Fund



-56-
Annex 4
MADAGASCAR
Third ForestrY Project
Technical Assistance Requirements
Short Term      Long Term
Institutional Strenothenino                                               Local
Sector Management
Sector Planning                            8
Public Expenditure Program                 5
Monitoring and EvaluaStlon                11
Management (SAM)                            5                        X
Data Processing                            9                         X
Financial Controller                                     8.0
Human Resource/Development
Training Coordinator                                     8.76        X
Short Term Consultancies                    7
Forest Manas  nt
Forest Managment                                         3.75
Forest Revenue System                      2
Short Term Consultancles                   8
Sociologist: Eucalypt Study                8                         X
Private Reforestation (ZODAFARB)
Sociologist                                11X
Marketing ZODAFARB Program                 4                         X
lntggrated Forest Valley Development
Agroforestry Ex-pert                                     1.8
Short Torm Consultancies                  10
Sociologist                                7                         X
Outreach Leader                           18                         X
Research
Agroeconomist                              2
Agroforestry Arid Areas                    2
Sociologist                                2                         X
Eucalyptus Expert
FOFIFA Researcher                                        17 FOFIFA   X
Natural Forest Protection
Reserve Management Expert                                15.5
Site Planning                              7
Park/Reserve Planning                      8
Sociologist                               1a                         X
Local Short Term Consultancies            88                         X
Short Term Consultancies                   8
Evaluation Assessment                      9
Mangoro Plantation
PlUntation Management                     10
Marketing Consultancies                   22                         X
Short Term Marketing Consultancles         8
Subtotal   Experts  106 m/m  Expert  27.06 m/y
Local    181 m/m  Local    8.76 m/y
Total              237 m/m  Total   80.8  m/y
+ 17 FOFIFA
(Research)
-4T.8f



-57-
Annex 5
TOR 1
FORESTS HANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Project Coordinator
Operational Responsibilitiesa
report to the Director of DEF;
prepare with proper deadlines work plans and activity budgets
of the project components with the assistance of the
financial controller and the concerned DEF Departments and/or
Services heads, and have them approved by the Director of
DEI;
ensure administrative aspects of Technical Assistance staff
and assure that each one will work in collaboration with a
local staff;
ensure a good working collaboration between DVA and DIR of
MPARA and the Service of Soil Conservation, of DEF, in
particular for the ALIVF component of the project, and between
DEF and DEPF;
supervise the action and program of the training coordinator;
prepare and finalise periodical activity and monitoring
reports for the activities of the project;
prepare the mid-term review of the projectl
Profile
Senior staff from MPAEF having good working relationships
with several divisions of DE? In particular;
5 years of experience as coordinator and/or manager of a
project or a service of MPAE?
Education: master/licentiate level;
Leadership and creative qualities;
Duration$    life of the project (7 years), subject to adequate
performance.



-53-                               Annex 5
TOR 2
Terms of Reference for Financial Advisor
Operational ResRonsibilities:
prepare both activity-specific and consolidated annual
budgets based on the Annual Work Schedules of the DEF
operational departments in charge of the project activities.
supervise accounting methods and ensure their conformity to
both Malagasy and Bank procedures;
advise on activity expense controll control and clearance of
reimbursement requests (bills and expense statements) to IDA
and to GOM in timely fashion, and in conformity with IDA and
GON procedures;
organize and supervise procurement procedures according to
the Credit Agreements between the GOM and IDA and other
financiers.
ensure that project activity accounts be revised by an
independent audit and ensure that IDA receives a copy of the
audit within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year;
organize the computerization of the financial management of
project activities.
Advisory Responsibilities:
to the Director of the Forestry Department (Project
manager), concerning cost recovery, policy, and follow-up
methods for the various activities.
to the Project Coordinator in drawing up the Annual Work
Schedule of the various activities and their follow-up.
Institution Building:
The Financial Advisor will have a Nalagasy countevpart, a
civil gervant from the DEF, whom he will train to be able to
replace him eventually in all his functions.
Every four months a meeting will be held with the Director
of the DEF, the Financial Advisor, and his counterpart to
decide which tasks should be confided to the couaterpart and
the kind of he'p/supervision to be lent by the Financial
Advisor.  A sumary of this meeting (evaluation of the
previous period and decisions concerning the subsequent
period) will be sent to IDA no more than one month after the
bi-annual meeting. The DEF and the Financial Advisor may
send separate personnel reports to IDA if they judge it
advisable.



-59-
Oraanizations
The Financial Advisor will be part of the project
Coordination Unit which will be directly under the DEF
Director.
--    The Financial Advisor will be assisted by the counterpart
and one secretary.
--    A liaison vehicle will be at his disposal.
--    He will work closely with the Project Coordinator.
Profile criteria:
--    international financial management and accounting
experience.
experience in public or para-public enterprise management.
experience desirable in forestry cost recovery methods in
several different countries.
--    fluent in French language.
Duration: 6 years



-60-
Annex 5
TOR 3
Trainina Coordinator
Operational Resyonsibilitiess
Report the the Progrsam Coordinator.
Organise training activities as planned in the project:  on-
the-job training, seminars, study tours, scholarships, In
consultation with the Project Coordinator, as the head of
the Coordination Unit of the project, and with the Financial
Controller;
assist field managers to select candidates for training and
consult with them  nd with appropriate TechniCal Assistance
to define training needs and training materials as well as
suitable trainers;
organise the administrative aspects of training activitles;
after each training activity Is complete, write a completion
report indicating in particulart  the objectives of the
activity, the content outline, the names (positions) of
participants, the evaluation questionnaire completed by
participants (summary results), and the actual cost of the
activity. Send a copy to the Program Coordinator as well as
to the Division Heads supervising the participants.
once a year, submit to the DEF Director, through the Project
Coordinator, a progress report summarizing yearly activities
and of program for the following year.
Profile:
At least three years' experience in forestry training, as a
teacher, coordinator, or administrator.
university (or equivalent) degree in forestry;
fluency in French;
leadership and organisational skills.
Duration:      45 months, continuous.



-61-
Annex 5
TOR 4
Rural Sociology Consultant
Operational Responsibilities:
Report to the head of the Reforestation Division of the
Forestry Department (DEF) in Antananarivo.
Identify constraints in the project supported ZODAPARB
activities in the provinces (faritanys) of Antananarivo,
Mahajanga and Antsiranana - see project report. The fact
that you would visit the project areas each year over a
period of five years should make it possible for you to
monitor changes in the rural and u'rban population's attitudes
towards the ZODAFARB program.
Recommend how the Identified constraints can be overcome.  In
particular, you should recommend on how the rural population
can be more drawn into the ZODAFARB program, either as direct
participants or as producers of the seedlings required by the
participants from the cities.
Submit a report (in French) at the end of each year's
assignment.
Participate In the teaching of the courses planned for the
ZODAFARB agents.
Institution Building Responsibilitiest
- - The consultant will have to transmit as much as possible
his/her experience and knowledge to the following
person(s)Itanction(s) (give upecific names and/or
position/function).
Profile:
University degree in (rural) sociology.
At least five years experience in rural sociology, including
field work.
Fluent In the Malagasy and French languages.
Intimate knowledge of Malagasy culture and agricultural
practices.
Duration
--   Three months In each of 1988 and 1989, two months in each of
1990 and 1991, ahd one month In 1992; i.e. altogether 11
months.



-62-
Annex 5
TOR 5
Consultants Forest Revenue Systems
Operational Responsibilities:
Report to the head of the Service Inventaire et Exploitation
Forestiere (SIEF);
review the existing revenue system of DEF and of Fanalamanga
and recommend Immediate improvements that could be done with
existing resources;
recommend long-term improvements in revenue system;
recommend timber marketing methods;
recommend suitable candidates for a forestry economics
course;
prepare a report, in French, at the end of the mission and
send it to the Program Coordinator with copy to the Head of
SIEF and to the World Bank.
Institution Building Responsibilities:
-- The consultant will have to transmit as much as possible
his/her experience and knowledge to the following
person(s)/function(s) (give specific names and or
position/function)
Profile:
Have experience in forest revenue systems in developing
countries, including relevant legislation;
have a good working knowledge of French;
have a university or equivalent degree in forestry, forestry
economics or economics.
Duration:     2 months as of January 1988; finamiced by PPF.



-63-
Annex 5
TOR 6
Consultant: Forest Inventorl
Ooerational Responsibilitiess
Report to the head of the Service Inventaire et Exploitation
Forestliere (SIEF);
determine If SPOT photographs are adequate for the purposes
of SIEF's proposed two inventories, or if the more expensive
and ttme-consuming traditional method of using aerial
photographs vill have to be resorted to;
whichever of the two above alternatives Is chosen, help SIEF
to call for bids for the required photographs of the eastern
forest. (The photographs of the Ankarafantaika forest can
walt.) Decide if the bids should include the delineation of
the chief forest strata, or If this should rather be done by
SIEF Itself.;
review the statistical design which SIEF proposes to use for
the Inventories, and suggest Improvements where necessary.
This would include the choice of strip or plot sampling
units, permanent or temporary, systematically or randomly
distributed, sampling percentage, proposed methods of
recording and analysis, and any other aspects that you
consider Important.
-  sist with the preparation of the work program;
review the list of equipment proposed to be acquired under
Forestry III for the lnventories, and suggest changes if
desirable;
prepare a report In French which should be sent to the
Program Coordinator with copy to the head of SIEF and the
World Bank not later than three montths after the beginning of
your consultancy.
Institution Buildint Responsibilitiess
The consultant will have to transmit as much as possible
his/her experience snd knowledge to tho following
person(s;/function(s) (give specific names and or
position/functioa)
Profilet
Fluent in French.
University (or equivalent) degree In forestry;
postgraduate training In forest Inventory methods;
practical experience of Inventories of mixed natural forests
In the tropics.
Durationt     2 months starting January 1988; financed by PPF



-64-
Annex 5
TOR 7
Consultant: Forest Manatement Planning
Operational Responsibilities:
-- Work in close connection with the Nature Conservation Service
and with the Inventory and Exploitation Service of DEF;
-- estimate the limits and potential of the Antananarivo wood
supply area (AWSA) and its possible rate of depletion if no
action is taken;
-- make recommendations regarding improvement in silviculture,
forest management and legislation, incentive systems for
forest protection and replanting with respect to eucalyptus
and pine plantation and natural forests, and recommend a
suitable subdivision of the AWSA into a number of forest
management plan areas;
-- you will liaise with WWF which has identified priority forest
areas and you will review the existing Malagasy legislation;
-- when you have established the AWSA demand-supply picture and
formulated your recommendations regarding the plantation and
the forest management, you will prepare an interim report;
--   the last part of your assignment will be to draw up a 10-year
plan for the region of Andasibe inventoried by SIEF.
Institution Building Responsibilities:
-- The consultant will have to transmit as much as possible
his/her experience and knowledge to the following
person(s)/function(s) (give specific names and or
position/function)
Profile:
university degree in forestry;
at least five years' practical experience in forest
management planning in a developing country;
fluency in French.
Durationt     9 months the first year, 1' months for years 2 to 4:
altogether 45 months.



-65-
Annex 5
TOR 8
Forestry Research Program
General;
To be carried out by FOFIFA (DRFP) under contract witk the
Forestry Department and Fanalamanga;
objective: applied research to support the different
components of the project.
Operational:
Marohogo components  trials of different species and
establishment methods, provenance studies of certain spectes;
Toliarti componentt  identify in this semi-arid soneg
technical packages for using species in agroforestry, fodder
production and study the natural regeneration;
Eucalyptus component (Manjakandriana): how to improve forest
management, important source of charcoal for the capital;
Soil consertvation componentt tow agroforestry can reduce
soil erosion, experiments on the plateau, the mid-vest and
the southwest;
Fanalamanga components  silvicultural trials, prepare yield
tables, natural regeneration trials, technology studies on
wood, resin, bark, charcoal.
The project would only finance new personnel and equipment
Durationt
about 215 man-months for DEF and 319 man-months for
Fanalamanga (over 7 years for researchers and technicians).



-66-
Annex 5
TOR 9
MEPERT ON MANAGEMENT OF FOREST RESERVES
(MEXPERT GESTION RESERVE FORESTIERE")
Operational
Report to the Head of the Service for the Protection of Nature and
Natural Reserves.
Take overall responsibility for the implementation of the project
activities in the pilot area; provide technical guidance on all
aspects of the management of the reserves with special reference
to the integration of these management programs into local
development activities through the promotion of sustainable
agricultural and forestry practices in buffer zones.
Provide technical support to community groupings which will be
established under the project to promote dialogue between DEl
(Forostry Department) and local people. Administer funds to
support village level initiatives to achieve sustainable
agriculture. Ensure that the views of these communities are
incorporated into the management plans for the reserves.
Coordinate, together with forest management plan expert, the
preparation of management plans for the reserves and their buffer
zones.
On the basis of the management plans, draw up detailed work plans
which will fozm the basis of the management of the project
resources.
Draw up detailed work plans for the research officers to be
provided under the project, and supervise the research programs.
These should be fully integrated into the management programs for
the reserves and should include provision for monitoring the
conservation of the biological resources of the reserves.
Provide instruction to the DEF trainees who undertake courses at
the training facilities to be established under the project.
Draw up detailed plans for public education programs in the
reserves and supervise the implementation of these plans.
Monitor agricultural and forestry research and experimental
programs elsewhere in Madagascar, particularly those in areas
where the environment resembles that of the pilot programs and
apply appropriate results from these programs to the management of
the buffer zones around the reserves.
Apply and test a range of protection measures over some 150,000 ha
representative of the eastern wet evergreen forest in the region
of Andasibe (Perinet), around the special reserve of Analamazaotra
and a new national park of about 10,000 ha which vould be created.



-67-
Measures to be tes4ed would Include Improved demarcation, patrols
and enforcement of boundaries, buffer plantations, promotion of
tourism as a source of income to the local population, and other
incentives to the latter to make it support forest conservation.
Recommend, together with the forest management plan expert, which
forests can be exploited on the selection systk.m for high quality
logs, which ones may be managed on the clearfe ling system for the
production of fuelwood, and which ones should be left untouched as
"reserves integrales'.   In particular, a specific forest
management plan would be prepared for an area adjacent to the core
protection area.
Work closely with the project's Integrated Forest Valley
Development (AIVF) program, the purpose of which is to reduce the
pressure on the natural forest.
Provide guidance for the proposed project financing, in the
Andasibe area, of a nature conservation training facility, a
visitor center, accomodation for researchers and tourists, road
access, a trail network, and boundary delimitation.
Assist, during the second phase of the project, with the possible
Extension of forest ptotection measures to the reserves of Lokobe,
Zahamena and Tearatanana. The Zahamena Reserve would include the
classified forest (foret classeo) of Andraibabe, with a total area
of 93,350 ha, and this reserve would represent the largest
protected area in the eastern forest. Daring this second phase,
support would be limited to basic infrastructure and equipment for
forest protection and activities geared to surrounding
communities.
Liaise closely with the expert on protected areas, based at
Ampijoaro in the Ankarafantsika area.
Institution Building Responsibilities:
--   The consultant will have to transmit as much as possible his/her
experience and knowledge to the following person(s)/function(s)
(give specific names and or position/function)
Profile
-- University (or equivalent) degree in forestry, botany, ecology or
nature conservation.
-- At least seven years experience of nature conservation in the
tropics, preferably the humid tropics.
-- A good knowledge of French.
Durationt 4 years, then six months p.a. for 2 years.



-68-
Annex 5
TOR 10
EXPERT ON PROTECTED AREIS
E 61pERT GESTION DES AIRES PROSEGEEo)
operational
Report to the Head of the Service for the Protection of Nature and
Natural Reserves.
Toe overall respons$ibity for the Implementation of the project
activities In the pilot area; provide technical guidance on all
aspects of the management of the reserveo with special reference
to the integration of these management programs into local
development activities through the prootion of sustainable
agr$cultural and forestry practices ln buffer sones.
Provide technical support to community groupings which will be
satablished under the project to promoto dialogue between DE?
(Forestry Department) and local people. Administer funds to
support village lovel initiatives to achievo sustaipable
agriculture. Ensure that the views of these communities are
incorporated into the manageent plwns for the reserves.
Coor4dtate the preparation of management plans for the reserves
and taeir buffer zones.
On the basis of the management plans, draw up detailed work plans
which will fona the basis of the management of the project
resources.
Draw up detailed vork plans for the research officers to be
provided under the project, and supervise the research programs.
These phould be fully integrated Into the management programs for
the reserves end should Include provision for monitoring the
conservation of the biological resources of the reserves.
Provide instruction to the DRY trainees who undertake courses at
the training facilities to be established under the project.
Draw up detailed plans for public education programs in the
reserves and supervise the implementation of these plans.



-69-
-    Monitor agricultural and forestry research and experimental
programs elsewhere in Madagascar, particularly those In areas
where the environment resembles that of the pilot programs and
apply appropriate results from these programs to the management of
the buffer zones around the reserves.
-   Apply and test a range of protection measures in some 135,000 ha
of the western dry deciduous forest of the Ankarafantsika region
in the Province of Mahajanga. Measures to be tested would include
Improved demarcation, patrols and enforcement of boundaries, fire
management, buffer plantations (cashew nut, fodder trees?),
promotion of tourism as a source of income to the local
population, and other incentives to the latter to make it support
forest conservation.
-    Recommend which forests can be exploited on the selection system
for high quality logs, and which ones should preferably be left
untouched as ur;serves integralesa (besides the area already
classified as such).
Liaise closely with the expert on the management of forest
reserves, based at Andasibe.
Institution Building Responsibilitiess
--   The consultant will have to transmit as much as possible his/her
experience and knowledge to the following person(s)/function(s)
(give specific names and or position/function)
Profile
-- University (or equivalent) degree in forestry, botany, ecology or
nature conservation.
-- At least five years experience of nature conservation in the
tropics, preferably the dry tropics.
-- A good knowledge of French.
Durations 4 years, then 6 months p.a. during two additional years.
Duty Station: At Ampijoaro in the Ankarafantsika region of Mahajanga
Province.



-70-
Annex 6
MADAGASCAR
Third Forestry Prolect
Proiect Related Trainint
Local Prolect Suiuorted Courses
Program               Module                  Number   Number    Trainees/
Name                 Number Audience  Type   Days/   Sessionsl Session
Module
ZODAFARB                Zi       P       B       20        3        10
Z2      P       F        5        4        4/
Z3      T       B       30        3        15
Z4      T       F        10       4        41
Z5      011     B       5         4     20-30-30-30
AIVF                    RF1      P       B       20        4     20-20-10-10
RF2     P       F       5         4        41
RF3     T       B       60        5  25-15-10-15-15
RF4     T       F        14       6        41
R 5     02      B       56        6 14-40-45-45-80-80
RF6     02      F       7         5        41
Forest Management       FMi    P         B       20        3        15
FM2     P       F       5         5        41
FM3     T       B       45        4     25-15-10-10
FH4     T       F       14        5        4/
Reserve Management      RH1      T       B       40        5     10-5-5-5-5
RM2     T       F        14       5        41
DEF Management         _DM1      PT      B       15        1        40
DM2     PT      F       7         3        41
DM1     PT      B       7         1        90
DM2     PT      F       4         3        41
P:  P-level staff                        Il/  over project period
T:  T-level staff                        2/t ZODAFARB participants
0:  other                                3/:  village extension participants
4/: attendance to follow-up period
B: basic module                               would be cumulative. Maximum
F: foollow-up module                          follow-up period is 3 years.



-71-
Annex 7
Table 1
tHMD FOESTR  m      W   MJECT
Pnoet   Coww*ns by lwr
(FMU iN0)
am         S9?    am             am         am         am          rn           M    (on9 '0)
-oag*a  axmoem    munm -          mmh.uu  -s            sgamusma uauaaminx  uuaxaumu,e  uinexz*a
A.     UC I    DF orT            32 .044.4 12*0*2.5 1.932448.4  ,5.960.6919 Is      8L6.0 Is2037  690,321*.  10.4 .483.1   78268
C. M4TUIW  TImES? OhtMl          1.37466.8 1.503.918.5   54561   9M 9.     W .. 2026,27.3  643*465.2  U,226041.0   6.04.
C.   0   P*tT*lIl0 UIlDlt   1J 305 M.2 1,290.203.0 1A.46     1.151.713.91. I24L3 1*192.50.  .1*239.1   81,311.7   6,438.5
Total tlE    Com                   5964.1100.4 4332.94.8 3*513.24.0 3.3814.2 3.31.7.4 4*238.96.9 248MB26.0 272 X7.535*. 24314.4
ic al tmur4min                    1923J4.t9  20070.5   9227h1 88432.    99*90  242,853.8   69,164.8    m               94      719.9
tic Ctiancin             *      1.305.917.2 I.749,26* 3 1.981.IL1 2*32492 3.0224110.1 4107.2*6 3*281.618.  18.551.54.    1531J.1
tot  F"SW  co0                     742.412.6 62.5t1175.646.390.86 ,3l0D2 0 6.51              9.*8,6WJC83 .o1M 9.s  7*l35b8l57.3  M2.U14
**gams==m  an                              Sam m        alua3m 8am_,.    _m aag
taxms                           1253.753*9  726656.6 *16  4236144*4   M59,53 162515.*6  64459.1  S.950.9335   2o812.2
for"  Excdad                    4790.4 4#043*823? 3.41,26#6 317U6t 1 J.8324#6 .06594.2 3*32776.  29t54 S225   M4U200.
mbur 30 1987 11m   M



-72-
Annex 7
Table 2
ofADmMC
TMIRD FORESTRY DEVaOF     PRCT
3  otabl                                 3 Tta
Local     forlogn       tot     d Excm     Cot    Lwal Foniin   total  Exif   Cots
I. .VIJU  cUT
A.   sTu TIIC                  1.12*506.7 3&417.623.3 4.610*137.1        74     17   576.8 2513.0 3389.8          74      17
8. EcNtt                         565.586.8   900.498*3 1*466085.1        61      S   415.9   662.1 1*078.0        61       5
C. vUC                           7484740#2 10813,154.7 1*831,04.8        59      7    50.5    6*4  134470         59       I
Ds I=  TC                      2301393.2   S53305.5 3.254.696.7          29     12 1,612.2   701.0 2N33N2         29      12
to 0t9tE t lTE lOhlH             61s018s,0 5*8107m22 6h506913.2          89     24   513*4  .272#6 4.786,0        89      24
F.FeImIJ                         576,650.7   M85,316.2 1*361.966.9       58      5   424.0   577.4 1.001.4         s       5
TOWl Iran    COsts                6.83T0.6 12.95o0628,1 19.03365.7          8      69 447.8 9,122.5 13.995,4         6S     69
Phwtuatiotemol                   260,166.4   565*522.1   825*68.5        68      3   191.3   415s.   607,1        6        3
tPrc   atlAgawlu               3.M7 37.8  .146693.3 119449071.2         68      43   315.6    75.s8  991.4        68       s
Total mii COTJIOa                10.1406118 21.662*843.5 31803,455.4       68    115 4*.97  10,614.2 15.593.9        68     77
------- --- asamsm           m   amBua  =*Ifa stagesomm aaaaaaaaa DBMS"
110 KCen Cams
Al EIIETN                       548.547,4   985,144.9 133.*6924         64      6   403.3   724*4  I,27.         64       6
t. SALAIM  IEII1E     LOCAL   2458.48.4            - 7#43,s481.4         -      9 1887#.7        - 1807.7                 9
C.f FTOSE    GuIIC   L          03s9307.9  3.173,338.2 4.2124646.0       5     15   764.2 24333.3 3.0975         75      Is
. Mm  DWS                       2009422.4   1885978.  3W8020.3          48      1   147.4   138.7  286,0         48       1
tal 5MM  COSTS                    4.246.7s5.1  4*347,060.9 8.593.840.1     5       J 31 322*6 3W.964 64319.0         51     31
hudeda  CmtlaumCi                 41.733.5   111.657?4   153,390.9       73      1    30.7    82.1   112.8        n3       1
Ptv1  CtAimff          '       3.101*930,4 3.425.540.6 6.607.471*0       52     24   283*4   30812   591.7        52       3
totl  ELUISt CTClIS               7.470.423.0  7.804.278.9 15.354,701,9    Sl      56 3,436.7 3,586*7 7423.5         51     35
. ota   MIE CUm                   10.39826.7 17W297709.1 v2?65358           6      100 7s5.5 12711.9 20.31464         63    100
flckd  Coatloas                   301899,9   677s179.5   979,07.4         6       4   222m0   497.9   719.9        69      4
trio C    baw.cs                6.91308.2 11*572.233.9 18.551*542.1       62     67    m9o   984.  1,503.1         62       8
fl t.t.1  aT S                    17.611.034.8 29.547.122.5 V4158.157,3     6      II1 8O416.5 14H2009 22.617.4       63    III
3.1997  1IS49



TMUD tOEIxY DEIIELW1T PRDM
N D OF  NMT AMCCOUIITS
(USS '@00)
use Costs              Phgsical Iofltinuncis        Price Ctiamnci.s               Total Incl Cats           Pi"Wlas
Comtn. Plus  Bs C  
tocal                       Local                    Lecal                            LcAl                    Pri.ce Cant. Pric Cm*t.
tExle.  tAi. &         For   Exc.l Du" I         Vttor. (Exc. Duties                  (Cxcl. Dties I          an Phscal   o 3kw
For. Eat. Tae    Tam    Total   Cub. Tws  TXfs  Total Ech. lJusi Tae, Tl FT. Excr             h Tau   trs   Tout           Cant.      Cets
mum         -       -    _              _      -     _ar   earn amm  aa        -     _    -      ammol umom       -                 amom
1, I.*TSTII  CMTS
A. IN'STTUCTMEL                 24513.0  15.1   M0.  3s3198 30.2  16.0   66.6 402.8 205.5  1.6    57.8  274W9    3,018.7  183.7   M.2 4.06.6              422.0      135.6
B. GUIN                           662.1  133.7  292.2 1078.0   3o t18          1*3  6.8  31.5   7.2    11.6   50.3      6973  1427   2950 1*135.1            7.3      1.127.8
c. WiCIL                          796.4  100.3  456.3 1,347.0     -      -       -    -  36.2   5.4    21.7  63.4        832.7  105.6  4n.o  1,410,3           -      1.410.3
3. TtU  TtR1IS                   701.01.450,9   241.3 2*393.2  63.7  27.1    17.7 108.6  56*.0  23.0    19.4  191.4     620.61*601.1   270.4 2.700.1      t1.9      2.581.2
E. ASSISTANCE TCCIXI'JE         4*272.6  504.3    T.t 4#786.0     -      -       -    - 294.5  2V.4    0.3  322.1   4.56.   531.6    .9  5,108.7               -      54108.1
F. FtOIA  5n.4  407 ...    16.9 1*001.4  48.2  40.7                              - 68.9  52.1  28.3    1.4   61.18    6077  476.2    13.3 1172.2            95.*      1.076,7
Toutl IEti   COSTS                9*522.5 2752.4 1,720.4 139"5.4 415.8  65.6  .t105  607.1 675.3 202.9  112.7  M.4   1064*2 3040.t 1.938.9 15.593.9           653.6    14.940.3
tI. -CENT COSTS
A. 011E3EI                       724.4  159.8  243.5 1,1W2    42.5    .9    12.0 60.3  77.9  17.5   26.4  121.1         44.8  183.1   281.9 1309.8         66.1      1*243.7
8. Sfl6S1 CICUiCIT UWM              - 1*806.6    1.1 1,807.7     -      .       .    _     -   4.7    0*.1   5.3           - 19U1.3      t.2 1,962.1          -      1.962.5
C. FGIICtlEIT 50161            2,333.3  216.4   5.8 3.0975  37.3        -     9.3 46.6 216.?  19.9   51.0  21879    2,587.6  236.3   60e.2 3,432*1         50.7      3.331.3
D. ATICIS DEFDUCS                138.7   91.5   55.9   216.0   2.J   25       1.0  5.3  13.4  836       5.3   27.2      154.4  102.6   62.1   3191          6.4        312.7
Toa RImIIT CATI                   J.lth4 2*274.2  84B.4 6319.0  02.1   6.4    22.3 112.8 208.2 200.7   32.7  591.7   3,5867 2,483.4   934 7.022.5             123.2      6.900,2
Total                             12718.9 50426.? 2*518.8 20,314.4 497.9  940   1230 719.9 93.1 40.6   195.5 1,53.    14,200.*9 524.2 2i12.2 22617.           776.9    21,340.5
Ncreaber 3. 1157 :49



-74-
Annex 7
Table 4
MU13 FORETR  DEELPNM  PUACT
Suarv Aomts bg Yrw
(Fno '000)
kw cots                                            Fm1et  IWwe
1I8        SW         1990       199         92         199        19          tow        I     "A
1.  IESTIM  COSTS
A.   StCIIT                    11W985.3.1 1*047*071.7  313*M0.9  ZO5.0  M52S41.4 1M31O   165.0S                4,60*.13.  74.1 3*417*2.3
8.     P cAUWT                   MINA   226M.7           5O1     105,917A.4    29758.0   97885.3   55*0.4  1.4608.l 61.4   900498.3
c. vHICUA                       941*W07*6   93796*5  314*6805  IV*90. J        3,9.l   ISO W         45*342.4  1.831.694.0 5ot 1.0347
i. TOM  tDlINS                   M:91*4   431*161.3  354*66  D*69.2              *M55.7  443*Q.0  30176.4  3*2596".7  29.3   953305.5
t. ASISTC  tWlIU              1t,306.3.0 1.120,315.3 1W016W00.5 11197*9  742*00.1   M7*6    390*564.5 650913.2  8.3 586107n5.2
F. rMTIOS                       141,181.0. 289,0527  21,409.2  230044   196 ,90  17021*7   106*085.9  136M16    57.7                563162
otal IIVESTHN  01               5.125760.09 3216983.3 2*316.262.2 2*318,845.1 2042*6.0 2*860,441.7 1.52714.5 t*903.695.7 68.0 12*950*6261
11. RCJ=  CtlS
A. tl1E                         8.80847    25,690.3  226618.7  257,504.9  266623.4  263*574.3  26501.1  1533692.4 64.2   91o44*9
S. SIS  M              L        M335222.6  356,68.9  357250.9  356*1010  35*359   356194   341,726,6 245.4814   0*0                    0.0
C. FONCTIOE     CEMI            359,4n3.   578332.1  6146.4  647,243*6  U67902*3  676*936*3  636*006.0  4421264.0  5.3  3.17*338.2
8. AMWES WIISE                   28.0792   M5U1M92   3219.6   46*193.8   61*W0.    61,907.    690.    39020.3 4.5   1108597.8
TotIIoENT COSTS                    088349.6 1,1I5,121.5 1,256761. 1 320*0491 1,255*954 1*378*548.2 1a326,3.5  85 40.1 50.*6 4347,060.9
Total     EK cesT                 S96*110.4 4332.s10. 3,573,024.0 323*894*2 329961.4 4,23s96.9 2,461026*0 276753.6 6.O 17,297,709.1
fwieal Contiotus                  192384.9  202M 70.5   9278.7   60422.5   99W0            242*5.    691648    97Mn   692   677n9.5s
trice Cmtin ctss                1,305917*2 1,749,863*3 1*981.08.1 2,58249.2 30 22.660. 4*70722.A 3201618. 18 51l542.1 62.4 1157M233.9
Totl IROCT AST                    7.462.412.6 6.265,511.7 5U646390.6 6.302,576*0 6519.8S 9,1899608.3 51751,809.1 41581573S 62.7 29547,*122.S
Eamma inmin  m  mmin         -       338  inamU~~*$mueum$-                *ma
tun                            1#253=74.9  7266.6  627,785.6  631644   159,99.3 1.215.565.6  6845*1  5.950*33.5  0.0                     0.0
Foiwisn Extxm                  4,73 A06.4 4.048.823.7 32541,1264 3M9 lo7 1   37*3246 600594.2 3W27786* 9 29547t*122.S  0.0               0.0
manget 3J 1987 11s1



-75-
Annox 7
Tablo 6
Madagascar
Forest Manag ent and Protection Projoet
Flnancing Pln
(USt million)
Govt. of                  Foroign Dutios .
IDA       NORWAY     SWTZERLAND Madagascar   Total         Exchango   T*xes
Amount   X Amount    X  Amount   #  Amount   X  Amount   X
Infrastructure            8.92 58                  1.22 18     1.08 24     8.77  80     8.88      1.14
et Travaux Tfrrain
EquIpomonto               0.87 82                  0.47 42      0.8 20     1.14   5       0.7      0.8
Vehicules                 0.82 21                  0.68 46     0.48 84     1.41   6      0.68     0.47
Assist. technlque         9.66 18      2.05 40     2.26 44     0.16  8     5.11  28      4.67     0.01
Formation                  0.1  9                  1.06 90     0.92  1     1.17   6     0.68      0.02
Entrotien                 0.81 24                                 1 76     1.81   6     0.64      0.28
Salaires Encadr. Local     9.1  6                  0.04  2     1.82 93     1.06   9               0.01
Fonction Coneral          1.28 87                   0.8 28      1.4 40     8.48  15      2.59     0.61
Autres                    S.9   1                  0.04 12     0.28 88     0.82   1      0.15     0.06
7.02 81     2.06  9      6.6 29     7.08 81    22.62 190    14.19       2.9



-76-
Annex S
LEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAOASCAR
Forest"  anmement and Protection Project
Procurement Procedures
-ELF Rol ntoFcamnt~
(US8  III on)-
Procurement method
Disburement Category       1CB1          LC82            Other  N/A   totol
I.  Civil works                               1.51                         1.51
(0.02)                       (0.02)
2I. Vehilele and equpment   1.20              0.30                         1.64
(0.)          (0.03)                        (0.08)
2II. Technical Assistance4                                   8.40          3.40
NWd training                                           (0.10)         (0.10)
2V.  IrementOul operating                                           2.02   2.02
cost,                                                       (0.01) (0.01)
Total Cost               1.26           1.89           3840   2.02   0.5J**
(Total IDA)               (-)           (0.05)          (0.10) (0.01) (0.10)
I )  figurore In brackets a IDA Credit ftnanced under PPF
eo  t of o hich 86.5 mllilon financed by a grant from the Swiss Development
Cooperation following IDA procureont procedures
1. Intrnational Competitive Bidding In accordance with IDA procedurs.
2. LC8t Local Competltive Biddino subject to certain reservations agroe hbtween
IDA and 4U0.
.  Inclde tchnical assisance, foreo account tra Inino.
4. The Y1I3 for *Il expatriate and local consultant stff f inanced by the Project
will be   reod with IDA. The quallteatilons and experience of consultats to
be fineanc   by IDA would be sbject to prlor reiew and approval, along with
their tems and condltlons of mploymnt.



-77-
Annex 8
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Foress fintnement and Protection Pro ect
Procurement Procedures
Natural Forest Protection
(USS lillon)
Procurement method
Disburs_ent Catogory       IC81       LCS2                Other$ N/A   Total
I.   Civil works                           2.78                             2.70
(2.18)                           (2.16)
II. Vehicles and equipment   0.21         0.80                              0.51
(0.14)      (0.19)                           (0.88)
III. Technical Assistance4                                    2.44*         2.44
and training                                            (0.81)        (0.81)
IV.  Inremental operating                                            1.22   1.22
costa                                                        (0.20) (0.20)
V.  Refunding PPF                                            (0909)        (0.08)
Total Cost               0.21          8.06              2.44   1.22   0.98.
(Total IDA)              (0.14)       (2.86)             (0.89) (9.2) (8.98)
): figures In brackets a IDA credit
o      of which 32.05 grant from Norwegian Cooperation and 89.04 from Swiso
Cooperation
1. International Competitive Bidding In accordance with IDA procedures.
2. LCs: Local Competitwo Bidding subjeCt to certain reservations agreed between
IDA and CON.
8.  Include  teochnical assistance, force account, training.
4. The TORe for all expatriate and local consultant staff financed by the ProjeCt
will be agrod with IDA. The qualifications and oxperience of consultants to
be financod by IDA would be subjoct to prior review and approval, along with
their terms and condition, of employment.



-78-
Annex 8
PEORQMMAC REUBLIC OF WADOASC^
FoCM    moo"         adPotcin Ctj
Procurem" P:groedu0ot
Reorl nt on A! the mnnooro Plnnttio
(UV* Million)
Procurement mthod
Disbursement hSttgory      lCD1       LCD2                Other8  N/A   Total
I.   Clvil works                                              2.48          2.46
(1.48)        (1.48)
II. Vehicles and equipment   0.21       0.20                                0.41
(0918)    (0.18)                              (0.26)
iII. Technical Aselotance                                     0.48          0.48
and tralning'                                           (0.20)        (0.20)
IV.  Increomentl operating                                           8.79   8.7
coss                                                         (1.15) (1.15)
V.  Refunding PPF                                                   (0.71) (0.71)
Total Cost               0.21      0.20                  2.91   8.79   7.11
(Tots I IDA)             (0.18)    (9.18)               (0.-l) (1.00) (8.76)
)     figures In bracketo   IDA Crdlt
1.  International Competitive Bidding In accordance wlth IDA procedure.
2.  LCD I Local Competltive Bidding subject to certain resrvatlons agroe  between
IDA and WMN.
8.  Include technical assslotnco, force accointo training.
4. The TORe for all expatriate and local consultant staff finno d by the  Project
wlI be agreed with IDA. The qualitfictlons and experience of consultanJt to
be financed by IDA would be subject to prior review end approval, along with
their terms  nd condltlons of employmnt.



-79-
Annex 9
Table 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MUDAGASCAR
Forests Maaeetand Protection Proiect
DEF Reinforcement
A. Proceeds of the SDC Grant
Category                        Credit Amount               2 of Total
($000)                 expenditure
I.    Civil Works                       1100                          80%
II.   Vehicles & equipment              1100                         100%
III.  Technical Assistance              2250                         100%
IV.  Training                           1000                         100%
V.    Recurrent costs                    880        100l   salary of one local
engineer SPN;
1OOZ administrative staff of
Coordination Unit; 50% of
cost of vehicle maintenance.
VI.   Unallocated                         120
Total                            6450
B. Proceeds of IDA Credit
Refunding of PPF                          160



-80-
Annex 9
Table 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
forests Manaftement and Protection Pro1ect
Natural Forest Protection
A. Proceeds of IDA Credit
($000)
Category                        Credit Amount          2 of
_  ($000)           expenditure
I.    Civil works                                                 90%
a)  National Park                   200
b)  Other civil works              1680
II.  Vehicles & Equipment                 360                    100%
III.  Technical Assistance                300                    100%
IV.  Recurrent costs                      200     OOZ salaz- of a 8PN engineer
3O0 of vehicle maintenance
V.  Refunding of PPF                       s0
VI.   Unallocated                         290
TOTAL                     3110
B. Proceeds of Norway Grant
Technical assistance                     2050     1OOZ of total expenditures
C. Proceeds of Swiss Grant
Trainig                                    40     1OOZ of total expenditures.



-81-
Annex 9
Table 3
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forests Management and Protection Proiect
Reorientation of the Maneoro Plantation (Fanalamanpa)
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Category                     Credit Amount        S of
($000)           expenditure
I.   Infrastructure & Travaux Terrains  1300      702 of expenditures
II.   Vehicles & Equipment                250     1002  expenditures
III.  Technical Assistanceltraining       230     1002  expenditures
IV.   Maintenance plantationlinfrast.    300      30S of expenditures
V.    Administration                      840     50X of expenditures
VI.   Refunding of PPF                    710
VII.  Unallocated                         100
TOTAL                        3730



-82-
Annex 1O
iMAAGSCM
Third Forestry Project
Schedule of Disbureeant of IDA Credit and Swiss A Norwegian Cooperation
Disbursoents CUSS 1,000)
IDA Fiscal
Year                         IDA      SWISS    NORWAY     TOTAL           CUMULATIVE
1968      January (1)            9CO        O        O      950              980
1989      July                   g8m      920      120     1570              2520
January                gm       920      120     1570              4090
1990      July                   079      490      120     12W              5670
January                670      490      120     1280              66S
1991      July                   810      420      120      6Su              7560
January                819      420      120     S6u               8850
19m       July                   840      619      166    1i10               9860
January                840      510      180     1010             10870
1998      July                   870      880      170      618             11186
January                $70      860      170      920             12108
1994      July                   759      820      200     1270             18878
January                750      820      200     1270             14846
1995      July                    so      210      189      896             15088
January                 59      210      189     8so              15428
TOTAL                 6990     6606     2040    15589            186948
(1) Disbursement undar PPF
ExpectOd date of sinin            January 1986
Expected date of tf ectivenss     July 1968
Expected completion date        : July 1995
Expected cloeing date             January 1996



-83-                                                    An 
1988        S       M99O      19911    1992      1998      194
jct lendar                                               TTT T                                    IT 1T         I 1TF
Coordination Unit
Final work prograe                                                   X         X         X        X
Midterm review                                                                            N
oipletion                                                                                                            C
Closing                                                                                                                   C
IDEF ITng*
Plunning TA_  
Iformetion TA
N 4 E TA
Construction
Trai                                                                 .--
Fgres MHnanmoent
Forest revenue syetem TA (PPF)
Forest inventory TA (PM
AlESA forest inventory
ASA  eter p 
Field control opcrations_ 
F1 Andasibe
Promotion
Abeato reed
Field opertios-
Tririrg                                                                 _       -_
Infrastructure                                                          - 
Eatention-                                                                                -        --
s    supply anford   r    tions
Construction a*d rehab.
Seed collection operation                               I                       -         -                   -
.Aroforestriy roorcil. 
t loo speCies trill
Construction and Site
Research-                                                                    -         -
Eucalypt resarch
Marohogo species trial
Site preparation
;'-TUAL FtlRET IROTETINi
Andasibs
Park/site planning (PM)
Park itnfretrucuro
Operations
Reserve//ite planing (PPP)
Rrve infrastructure
Operations
Phase Two
Reserve/itte planning                                                                      _
Reserve infrastructure
Operations
WNO     PLANTATiN
WPF pi so
;aitnace operations



-84-                         Annox 12
Staf inne Plan1
D.E.F. 2                                    PROJECT
P-LEVL        T-LEV         S-LEVEL        P-LEVL          T-LEVEL        $-LEVEL
_  1 coordin t ur                    ~~                ~   1dmin           2 s*ertaklr 
Unite Coordination   1 reolosur                  **crot tr                      2 comptablhs
2chauffeurs
2plentons
qestion or           2 PASS                      2 * crea iroe o    lngeniour
plan
is Ing nloor
=Ion MMt             Ss            16 REF                       1** Ingeour                    4 Or  be
lUPAFAS              4S            10 REF                                       Se g4 ntl
terralns
I chat div PR
1 coord. FR
Dor
Arff                 1 oMrdM  IVF
S SPEF V av  7DCS                            * cheo        7a *nt
PEF KilnJ 7 OVA/WPARA                     animation       animatlon
aitm  7 DIR/MPARA
3nas et Station   1S DOSF TAN  6 chef equipe                                                   s  colloet ere
Porstiere                          2 STAT.
cIosib -            1 chef        2 &gnnt*                                     3 Joniteuro    0 ouvriers
rOserve       renerves
Ankraf anlo ha       1 hot        a 8gents                                    3S *agnto       4 ouvrilro
rserve        renerves                                  4  mn itoara
5ervic  Protection                                               20 lngeniour
Mauro/DEo rN
1.011                2 -ichato     1 chat                                       5. a*g nt.     Ii eovrier
Toarstanans            resrve        rsrve                                         reerve
Zth_ena                               " agent
resneve
Total    22            5s              9              6               26            6J
* Intogration bEF by 1                           SIEf Service Inventalr. at Exploitatlon forstir.
S  ulvl                                          SPN   Service Protection de le Nature
FR Dlvision Reforetation                         DCE  Division Conservation des Solo
DOSW Division Graln, at Statlons Forsotieras
I/When all components are operational (after mid-tarm review)
ZfExistlg DEf   tf  to be resigned to project execution (not *Il DEF staff), non financed by the project
3Na  staff to be appointed, financed by the project.



-85-
Annex 13
DEMOCJATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forests tianagement and Protection Project
Field Activity Monitorina Assitnments
Activite                  Localisation             Responsabilite Suivi
Gestion Forets
Antananarivo             SIEFIDEF
SPEF Antananarivo
CIREF Moramanga
Mahajanga                SPEF MaMJ anga
ZODAFARB
Ambato                   SPEFICIRFORET Antananarivo
Fihaonana                CIREF Ankasobe
Mahajanga/Marovoay       Div. RebolsementISPEF
Antsiranana              CIRCO Antairsnana
AIVF
Mananara
Vavatenina                SPEF Toamasina
Kianjavato                SPEF Fianarantsoa
Graines                   Fianarantsoa
Toamasina                Division Stations
Mahajanga                  Forestieres/DEF
Antsiranana
Toliara
Protection For-ts         Andasibe
Ankarafantaika           Service Protection
Lokobe                     Nature/DEF
Tsaratanana
Zahamena



-86-
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forests MAnageae't afid Pr6tettion Project
Annex 14
Financial Analysis of Fanszlaman8a
Background
1.      Fanalamanga is a parastatal enterprise created in 1975. Under the
Mangoro Project I (Loan 1065-MAG; Credit 525-JAG (1974-81)), the company
planted 12,000 ha and maintained the existing forest in view of building
later a wood pulp mill. However, it became apparent that trees were not
growing as expected and that the wood pulp market was sluggish. In 1982, a
second credit was granted (Forestry II, Cr. No. 1161-NAG). It resulted in
the reorientation of Fanalamanga from a future pulp manufacturer to a
producer of standing wood. Credit 1161-NAG closed on June 30, 1987.
2.      Fanamalanga has been to date an effective project implementation
agency with strong management and a qualified work force. But since the
compaw will not invest into processing and will stop, for a while, new
plantations, it has to curtail operations and reduce its work force from
about 1650 employees to 1,110.
Financial structure
3.      Up to June 30, 1987, the enterprise has invested in new plantation
and in maintaining existing forest, but bas no revenues from sales of
wood/trees. All investments and operating expenses have so far been
financed by GON loans lent to Fanalamanga at 12% interest per year (not
compounded). GO sources of money to lend to Fanalamanga were essentially
IDA (Forestry Credit I and II), BADBA and 0OW general budget.
4.      This method of financing has the following results on the Balance
Sheets (million FMG):



-87-
81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87
ASSETS - Net Fixed    10151   11972   15001   18072   22336   26648
- Current         292     576      783     750    1366    1763
Total         10443   12548   15874   18822   23702   28411
LIABIL - Capital         500      500     500      500     500      500
- Long Term      9881   11981   15111   18126   22867   27769
- Short Term       62      67      173     196      335     142
Total         10443   12548   15784   18822   23702   28411
debt    -               x 20    x 24    x 30    x 36    x 46    x 56
capital
5       The situation is extremely abnormal and has to change to show
not only that G.O.M. owns the company in terms of percentage of capital
(practically 100%), but in terms of the assets (capital over assets).
So it will be required that all present long term debts owned directly
(as such in the balance sheet) or indirectly ("comptes des associes"
who is a G.O.M. Bank) be transferred into the capital of Fanalamanga
starting in 1987/88.
Treatment of future long term loans from GOM
6.      Starting in 1987-88, Fanalamanga will increase its sales of
wood to arrive at a sales plateau of about 2800/3000 million FMG by
year 2010. But between now and 1993/94, sales will not be sufficient
to cover costs and a long term loan will be needed. These "new" loans
from G.O.M. will be considered as loans to be reimbursed by Fanalamanga
to G.O.M. over 20 years with a grace period (for the principal) of 7
years, and at an interest rete equal to 11OZ of the IBRD interest rate,
the foreign exchange risk being born by Fanalamanga. For computation
purposes, the rate of 12% has been used in table 4.
7.      During the grace periods of these new loans, the interest due
by Fanalamanga to G.O.M. will be considered as supplementary capital
inflows by G.O.M. and will also increase the Fixed Asset side ("frais
d'atablissement") by the same amount.
Management ratios
8.      The following ratios will be taken to build proforma financial
statements (end of year):



- 88 -
- cash: 4 months of operation of following year
- inventory: 30% of recurrent costs of following year
- accounts receivable: 2 months of sales current year
- account payable: 10% of recurrent costs current year
- depreciation: infrastructure and travaux terrains (10 years),
equipment (5 years), to be added to depreciation from
existing investments.
9.      For the financial forecasts in current FMG, inflation rates are
the following:
Year  87/88    88/89   89/90   90/91  9. '"  4 and later
- FMG:       16.5%    12.5%      10%       10%     10%
- Foreign:      1%        1%      2.25%    3.5%    3.5%
The foreign exchange rate to the US dollar is 1360 FMG (after
the devaluation of July 1, 1987).
Prorotion of Products
10.     In the Aide-Memoire discussed during the appraisal mission with
Fanalamanga management and MPAEF, the position of the mission was that
Fanalamanga would not become a processor of wood products unless there
is a joint venture with private enterprises, but would sell standing
trees. In the financial forecasts, the joint venture possibility has
not been envisaged.
11.     So far, Fanalamanga management has experience in forest
plantation and maintenance, brt not in selling its products which will
become the cornerstone of the profitability.
12.     Sales estimates in volume and in selling prices are
conservative (see Annex 15) for two reasons:
(a) The local markets (volumes and prices) depend on national
economic growth assumptions and private sector enterprises who
would be potential customers (sawmills, furniture manufacturers
and builders) are hesitant to invest;
(b) Madagascar is rather new in the forest product export market.
However, the July 1987 devaluation of the currency may help
exporters if local inflation is maintained at a reasonable
level.
13.     Three types of products from trees have been envisaged so far,
but other products will have to be explored:



-89-
(a) charcoal products (diameter inferior to 14-15 cm.) coming from
pruning and thinning. The biggest and closest market is
Antananarivo (120 km. with good .-oad). This market is growlng
and is rather independent of the conjuncture;
(b) hand sown wood (diameter between 15 and 20 cm.) for
construction (poles, lamelle). This market is sensitive to
GOM housing;
(c) sawmill logs (diameter above 20 cm.). This market can be local
(housing, furniture) or for export (boards);
(d) These three basic markets have to be promoted simultaneously
when the saw mill production starts to increase rapidly
(1991/92 and after) because it ie estimated that when a mature
forest is e:,ploited, there is a wood output, in terms of
volume, of 202 for sawmill, 20% for squaring and 60% for
charcoal.  So sawmill wood buyers will be interested in
exploiting a forest If it can get rid of, or find use for, the
80% of the volume which is not suitable for saw mill.
14.     The promotion of Fanalamanga trees for sales have to take into
account that presently, most potential buyers are small to very small
enterprises, some of whom may have to be trained for processing the
trees correctly and economicaly. Hence promotion may include
activities such as:
(a) helping individual entrepreneurs, for charcoal in particular,
to organize associations like cooperatives to manufacture
charcoal and/or to transport and sell it;
(b) finding structures where entrepreneurs (or their employers) can
be trained to use and maintain their equipment;
(c) investing in small pilot simple installations (charcoal,
handsaw, mechanical saws, etc...) to attract potential clients
by showing them the technology and the economic results they
could obtain;
(d) helping potential clients to prepare and present sound
financial reports for credit request to their bank;
(e) diffusing to its clients information abov- technology and
market potential and evolution.
15.     In order to organize sales promotion, Fanalamanga will create a
Sales Service that will have to work very closqly with the Exploitation
service to be sure that the forest plots to be exploited contain the
kind of trees (quality, diameter, accessibility) attractive to tree
purchasers and processors. An accounting system will have to be put in
place to analyze sales per types of clients and markets.



-90-
16.     Fanalamanga will have to select a Sales Manager whose profile
should be a mix of forestry production experience and acquaintance with
wood processors in order to understand their technical and economic
opportunities and problems and to draw forest exploitation plans with the
Exploitation Service.
i987/88 Transition Period
17.     Table 1 shows the structure of thu last five budgets of
Fanamalanga. Purchases and salaries represent about 95. of all costs.
They are variable costs that can be adjusted to needs. Table 2 shows for
1986/87 the composition of purchases and the consumption of main items. As
can be seen, Fanamalanga has piled up inventory, taking the opportunity of
financing from the Forestry II project.
18.     It was agreed during appraisal that a reduction of the workforce by
544 positions would be necessary in order to stay within the budget for
1987/88 prepared with management during the pre-appraisal mission (February
1987). Further agreements were reached that:
(a) Maximum purchases for 1987/88 would be (MnFMG):
Consumption + End Mini - Big Invent. -    Purchases
______    Inventory               Theory  Practice
Fertilizers            10 (est)       10            814    -    0        1
Gazol & Lubr.         132 (-20%)       10            19        123     123
Tires                   5 (-50%)       i5            60         0        1
Spare Parts            54 (-407)      50            183         0        1
Civil Works Matls       6 (est)       10             22         0        1
Others                 13 (-10%)       5             10          8       8
90          1108                135
(b) Hence the Inventory at the end of 1987/88 will be (Mm FMG):
Begin Inv'y + Purch.   - Cons'n   - End Inv'y
Fertilizers         814     +   1      -   10      -    805
Gas & Lub't          19     + 123      -  132      -     10
Tires                60     +   1      -    5      =     56
Spare parts         183     +   1      -   54      -    130
Civil works          22     +   1      -    6            17
Others               10     +   8      -   13      3      5
1108       135          220         1023
(c)  However, due to the July 1, 1987 devaluation of FMG with respect to
the U.S. dollar (from 805 FMG to 1360 FMG for 1 $), the figures
will become, for Gasoline and Lubricants, for 1987/88:
consumption:                            205 M'n FMG
beginning inventory:                      19 M'n FMG
minimum ending inventory:                 16 M'n FMG
purchases;                               202 M'n FMG



-91-
Table 1 - Budget structure (Millions FMG)
82/83 I/ 83/84 I/  84/85 1/  85/86 2/  86/87 3/ Increase
MnO    X  MnF   h   Mrn   %   MnF   X   MnF   %
Purchases                333   34  1216  64  411   35  1287  35  1471  59   x 4.4
Salaries                 609   62   638  34  691   59   826  37   918  37   x 1.5
Contr. Serv. & Taxes      15    2    18   1   21    2    34   2    37   1   x 2.5
Transpt. Manag.           22    2    24   1  41    4    59   3    61   3   x 2.8
979  100  1896 100 1164  100  2206 100  2487 100   x 2.5
-/ Audited Income Statement
2, Non audited Income Statement
3/ Estimated.
Table 2 - Consumption in 1986/87 (Mn FMG)
Begin         Purchases      Ending
Inventory  +              -  Inventory - Consumpti(
Fertilizers                      335       +    1088     -    814      =    609
Gasoline & Lubric.                 17      +     167     -      19     -    165
Tires                             49       +      21     -      60     -      10
Spare parts                      182      +       91     -    183      -     90
Civil works mat'l.               !0(       +      91     -      22     -    169
Others                            11       +      13     _      10            14
694      +    1471      -   1108     -   1057



-92-
Hence, for 1987/88, purchases will be:        214 Mln FMG
end inventory will be: 1240 M'n FMG
(d) It is not possible to implement the personnel reduction
immediately and that
100 would leave in the 4th trimester of 1987
222              of"  "   1st    "     of 1988
222   "      "   "  "  2nd       "     of 1988.
At an average salary of 40,000 FMG per month, this represents
158 millions FMG (including inflation) on 1987/88 budget. It
is hoped that a great   percentage of persons leaving
Fanalamanga will become small       manufacturers of charcoal
(after a training period organized by the Bank Energy I
Project).
(e)  Fanalamanga will promote its tree products and will sell for
about 135 millions FMG during 1987/88 (mostly during the first
semester of 1988).
19.     In terms of financing 1987/88, sources will come from PPF of
IDA, G.O.M. resources and sales of products (see para. 28).
POP.F
20.     It is planned that the IDA Credit be effective on July 1,
1988. But since Forestry II Credit (Cr. 1161-MAG) was closed on June
30, 1987, the IDA Credit for the Fanalamanga fiscal year 1987/88 will
be financed through a PPF which Is composed of :
Milliers
Dollars
- Civil Works and Sylviculture    260       (1.0 FE; .6 LC)
- Equiments and Vehicles             20     (1.0 FE; .8 LC)
- Technical AF istance,
Training .d Research           80      (1.0 FE; .8 LC)
- Maintenance P. ntation and
Infrastruct- -e               150      (1.0 FE; .6 LC)
- Administrative costs              200      (.6 FE; .6 LC)
Total PPF            710
(FE- Foreign Exchange; LC - Local Costs).
Financial Policies
21.     Dividend Policy: Starting In 1994-95, Fanalamanga will be able
to pay dividends to GOM. By that time, GOM and Fanalamanga management
will have to determine, with the agreement of IDA, the use of that
money which may be: (a) either to give to GOM as dividend or, (b) to
reinvest in Fanalamanga part of the amount in order to -ncregse
plantations.



-93-
22. Capital and Long Term Debt Policy. Up to now, Fanalamanga has been
financed by GOM I/ which lends money to Fanalamanga at a rate of 12X per
year, not compounded. In the Fanalamanga statues, it is stated that: (a)
GOM cannot demand the reimbursement of that loan; and (b) the loan can be
incorporated into the capital (when the wood pulp factory would be built).
The consequence of that policy has been that, since Fanalamanga had no
revenues to date (from sales) but only recurrent and investment costs,
capital (500 M"n FMG) is very small compared to Long Term Debt due to GCO
(26366 M"n FMG). This situation has been agreed during Forestry I and II.
The cumulated interest on that Long Term Loan was added to the Fixed asset
side of the Balance Sheet on 'Frals d'Etablissement." This policy,
possibly understandable while the forest was growing, will have to change
now that sales begin to take place. The Long Term Debts (principal +
cumulated interest of 12Z) will be written off and incorporated into
Fanalamanga capital during the year 1987-88.
23. Accounting for Losses. Up to now, Fanalaianga has no revenues/sales.
Hence there are only accounting losses. Those annual losses are cumulated
in the Fixed Asset Side of the Balance Sheet, under the items "Road
Construction and Fire Protection", "Administration", 'Reforestation",
"Buildings in Construction". This policy will have to stop when, by 1994,
sales revenues cover costs. In line with para. 22, those losses (and
future profits) will be written in the Liability side under Retained
Earnings, starting in 1987-88.
24. Auditing. Fanalamanga auditing is done by the Cabinet Madeleine
Ramaholimihaso, a well known and reputable audit firm in Madagascar.
Rowever, the work done so far is more a Commissaire aux Comptes work than a
real atdit work. It is necessary to say that the new accounting and audit
code is not ready yet in Madagascar and that audit practice does not seem
to be widespread. For the year 1985-86, the Bank asked Fanalamanga to add
cost accounting to its general accounting practice. This was somewhat
difficult and it took some time fo;- the two accounting systems to
reconciliate. This is one of th' reasons why 1985-86 accounts were not yet
audited in June 1987 when the appraisal mission came, but they have been
received since and approved by the Bank. The auditor should be called
earlier in the year to audit accounts. It should bt stated at negotiations
that a condition for IDA disbursement is that audited accounts should be
sent to IDA with a maximum delay of 6 months after the account closure. In
order to allow the auditor to undettake more auditing than just accounting
control, the fee item in the financial projections has been raised.
25. Income Taxe on Profits - Since Fanalamanga is a state owned
enterprise, GOM may get money back from Fanalamanga either from Income
taxes or from dividend (or both) once Fanalamanga generates profits. It is
assumed, for financial analysis purposes, that Fanalamanga will not pay
income taxes. As a consequence, depreciation policy does not have any
impact on financial inflows or outflows. But since Fanalamanga has a
1/ which in turn borrows money from IDA or other sources (e.g., BADEA).



-94-
depreciation policy, it will be pursued. For future investments engaged in
this project, it is assumed that investments on "Travaux Terrains and
Infrastructurou will be anortized on 10 yeirs and vehicles on 5 years.
Main Points from the Financial Analysis (Tables 3, 4, 5)
26.  Fanalamanga will become profitable starting in 1993/94 and can begin
paying dividends (para. 21) in 1994/95. Dividends will represent:
94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99
as Z of Sales            12.8    22.7    34.8    33.3    32.0
as % of Equity            1.4     3.6     5.9      6.2     6.5
The profitability over equity (dividend/equity) is quite low and is due to
the fact that Capital is probably over-valued (see para. 3).  Profitability
over sales is good.  Operating income become positive in 1992/93.
27. Table 4 shows that Fanalamanga will need uorrowing for the seven first
years (87/88 to 93/94) for a total of 8520 million FMG (current). GOll will
lend the money on 20 years with 7 years of grace, at an interest rate of
110% of the IBRD rate determined at Board presentation. For calculation
purposes, the rate of 12% has been chosen. Debt service to GOM will start
in 95/96.



Anite3t 14
Table 3
lac_ St i,mt fb FM. curent) .   Somo 4
twi   IMIN  1wS"  19"I  " X 101/0  %mi                      * I""   *90/01"       M *y   */   1"81
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                             -3    , W  .X             -W 4  -1   '  -3*1   -W
owifil                                                                                                      -a       -3#    t -ws     -wn
"   i m a d.                                                                                               - 24=    - S l      W 0  - - M
DIV04                                                                                              i4        -1M      -U      -M6    -f4*
ft . bfil                  *D                          IN
S" T..ble
S" g bitz i%
*a5  w    No*Ul ***"t *_ioelt ley off la V/S



- 96 -
*mn., 14
tebA. 4
lnamp.. S rof A  lelet    d Oh C iM                    . aerrt)  Sept. 4
*0*
19e7r  1e/   seA9   1990se 1  1se1/92  1 /9   19/9   1994/    199/"  se19/97  I9/9   i9m"I
Dfim                                                     ' ' '                                                       -                 -  -
e%a C"h                         il               2     s      76       664      m        6         a"        28     16        98      102       110
m1a. beanwe  (                              is       26       476      61      107      16"4      246       8W      407       m1      59s       GM
brroehu.                                  2009       7       1o        149     1408     1001       2a
opertion  56)                              1613     184    969        1_9      Mm       147       2667     249      8284     g8       8o6       882
Eseedt, Perll I(4)                          186
lssr.e/4wr.s   wo.rktnegaPlt.1  (8)         90   -1018        -46      as       100      124        89      1"       I76      1t7      141      2a
Debt aervi.. to       ()
- itest                                                                                                           241      61       84       66n
- prinoipel                                                                                                        18      106      180      i
DIV Idede                                                                                                   420     10       16"4    s194       2144
bd Cobo                                    60         6       6"4      mi       632      66        828     1066      988    2SCO       1109     1
.T.gl CWOutise1W                                 155              -mT   --3V          11757   U-I     4U           UWM     van      YU 
TAaWel Oble  , bheet 40 Jun 1(   WO_.                                            or
be tae   Pow                                                      eLatmit                  er fretlON  2   en o     lo  7 ye gsrace. 12 t lntere*s per yer
RAmn.x 14. pare lOd(8   (219 for  spuat    purpose., a". par&.)



Fe#eeanee. belanc  S*9    Ot'n FM2 current)  Sept. 14
19116     1987/Se  1968/SO  19t/90  1990/91  1991/92  1902/93  IYA/93   1994/9  1L"S/9   1996/9   197/96  196
Piuxd Creos                                                      27457    259r    80107    8154       82205    86        87206    39181      137?    48018    44836    459
- Acc. Dop'n (2)                                                 -6       -2      -16       -1518   -1979    .27    -819    -89            -464?    -54    -6609    -76
Not fued Asst.                                       -l          !7171  -TIM   --NM                 -TM        Wil9   T4UV   -              U73   I374I   -17W7  _=M
inveMo y                                                1106      1240      310      347       202      422      45        500      526       576      619       6        70C
Mc. RIe                                                  82o       242      184                10       ISO       276      414       55       803       66       99       122:
Ca*                                                      825      6a6       75        664      775      an2       a"       an       106w      g85      10NS     1109      1196
Curro.t Aa"%*                                      -7    -              1IU      I5  --5T                   7il                                          --M177  I 
TOTAL ASSamS              2dS 41A1   t7    -lY8                                               7 a3315                   1       74 
-J
LIA8ILITI51
Cop ito 1 (3)                                            600    2629    26510    2663        29361    20067    8094      21938    82914    28724    84430    34025    35240
Retainb Earn.                                                    -21118    -2106     -812    -4059    -47n7    -506      -4724    -4129    -8296    -3002    -2592    -1971                                          -
L- 9Aaeeoceat*                                         1423
Go"                                  ~~~~~~~~~~2684
-Now loan                                                    2009      27S0     43683    567       7284     am8       6520     652       6447     6341    61151      7906
Total long ter*'                                       W7=1    2W          U71                 B79 _7M                          --5~ I5=   --SW     U__=   _I3            7
Acc. Payable,                                             142       9         3       103      116       12       141      155       16?      179       192      206       222
Total l iabili ties                                      FML  -YUI  -YS7    119              31!87  --MM        UPI  -N            "I7a I!          -3MW   -7W=           11
Cl  Ez.; t.i    Balafe* Sheet as of luno 30, S7
Pasft.e: DprZcation poersuod plug mma aon
3iIncorproation into, capital of past langrtars debts due to 0ON and Ameeoeatoe (part 5) plus mtoreet on once period (pere. 7)
I 
LttBlTES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f66



-98-                          Anx1
X lIg
a Ii| 
iIi~~i  I 35g
,   1!  ,              I j  Ii        a
;t flh 8                       I:  q f      ''



un 15151 xm     wB
TM Ira wn  n a I                 I
1tm        t1w3        tm         t191t        192        13             4        15s         199        19          I*          1           MW          2001       2           2
'~f.P,*CT WM3
am   ml                SW          toSW    lon   izo    2429    UN0                            0    10    t110                    5 Ismo    670   172m               10        3t0   1334    22mm0
:I l                         AM1         22          2326       2326            3       4304      3     3      4 3         433         43          4M         43                      4 3         4 3        4 3
m                     t           1I301  129100 2M3OM0  234060 0t2mutoM  MOM0373                                 0022t0647100 6260  71000 7463M2  7753000 lUWOINO 3t103   7 403
cm     M    mmzuasai g                                          @      u3m            338                m     w, m amm                                 m                            nmi 
vm tlam,nl                   133         121154114  l2203l451  135324906  173429   13S6U6  1162072 
t3~UCI~                            22611177  12.1n33M77  126131n   126877  16133177  1t2633n   11306                          -           -          -           -           -           -           -          -           - 
Eimm                                2527451   27635795    t t40405     20451       236121   327021   2364U62                  -           -          -           -           ^           -          -           -           -            '
l>;lmall1    tl   115309  tV09   tel  IlS@l  115D -                                             -                               -               -                  -                     -           -          -           -   s
U .    -I                           tMt  274377  7e7  24W414                                   242 4242M t7-                                         -           -           -           -          ---
.9AUW    242M34Z  242347   242354              24m2         24M3537          W 42354372                   242 377  2425417M  24235424 24247  24235437   24234377  2423
Sft;SwiK 39                        703         7052    76 2    70653529   70635               70653529   705352    703           7652    7053            7065       7W52   7?O        2    7e65         7062     7M5
a  JNIDfu                        2t104         217u1744  220949  2 91   2293                  23113171  231171  2313171  231171  233613171  2Dt33617t   233613171  23361311  23363175  29111  2133tl
L5sUtW3   M WU                       412160      4121106    412160      41266    412169         412606    412160       41210       41216    412160-  41210            41210       412102    4160     4a21             42d
CV     3.11 I =                    9_,t10'97772714  t1S92l443  6 4                 0 9451t  9314245  34              S f24529  55124283  551242663  55124263  5124 13 55242683  514233  51246     51242              W2=
gUgigSm  uus~    22W1W  82S22t33 32U.i... 52S,,R2.t                       ..2U 383rn122  *3~......  . .w.... .                   .... ._.
3o".    3wbP=l~                 ZIIM-39  28':1.3  332M72   2344423   27061202   231310472  2613441   2371642   251716421  23716621  231716621  22171121231716621  2317166     2317142   2317662
W4IzIalmmt                                 -           -           -           -          -           -           -           -  U     M             -           -           -           -           -                      -
t .   UteIAL*tt               722;n994  49004  70U3719   047.207  63M422  L4 31m   5974 1   39                          6   44434912  3195262  311 06   3195206   3560    3152606   444 2    3192602
..it i5flf   : S:tmm:m *#atSfltflt ZflZ*uC  tlfSBS   fhuSSS =t5     tSlfh    fhSnSu                  n* tgtS  tt - _  |SCS   s S  :SSflhlf  *2t2sfs  5tt 5 l sUsf  212.m.  fumS  0Unum
iniAllDtL lEl   1F193 
1514 :S:F;;Y ;S 31sn1  -5943619  -;6537034 -476233719 -320521207  490749170 1624317127 27314133  413277123366336586 40304333686365 493314 306337222933   749702736672942110483                                                       03X
3Z.ruI*tinv    mZuim W42mZg  *mmiw   54 tvSt              mgm    *           :mmZ u#2mS am sm 6ms     amm mata  uas    mSa    sanu    miom
iim_ UN lr Wm.



' ins5 "s;                     dl a   | S  *.. ;
wum  III V=,,
ininsinm mu.u    omaun    umamm    .mia   nnnnm  aulmZ ju"    s UaaI"U=& :8nh
mamm stmlm  twn  mnmuzu t,mz mo.ma wewu urj WWWu                                                     U=
* t~~su a Li~
i.n           auas.wS in,.u.sesmai   sinmu,a mswu:m   st;~s..,.
"i    "Ptt   90lt "In            "71ZW   902t   "ti            r.t
_  * _ * * _ * ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIU XYI W:.. '
WUTEt?M   unt7t   Wa9m    ninm    Utinin      UVEIVIs  WE=ga,     ttg,.   "WI?=       =mCuCaMss   W*a-:
S _~~ ~ ~~~~                               - _   s~r S_2   S _s-s - _:I:at
Ulm X   U1S       inmmt  utmten  36338E  8333*282  UltlS3   8.aZ8a#8di 4tC;;533;CUa
t~~~~~~~~LM                                am 6a              u        m     &slmm       ca           u   &=M          Z3LXL-=  w3MU0I
"DUN   Ummz  mour   uatrng  mourn  Urn=   m-o,; ZM=lz   mok=
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u s:u szt  -              -        -        -         -                                      :s:
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ U                                ini _  ,3 ,338 ,~*: ,1U _.i:.a _                             33mw_
-- - -   -        -        -        -        -         -        -        - --Z W 
-.aS   x                                                          _                          _                 -         -        --.z.
~~*                                                              -        -        -        -          .......... -   ._
.owun  t"          ODsos .~a t      .owam   n  oau  oooios oticto:63I am    tu                 , t= A M
mun  04           #mm      ass  ne1          101   #ea10        ICtC     W= 1001        WLU VS JO ni
mu
UK       lta      otw               au *   s  Lou      9        Yt st    wo;
gim urn wtuna uIUM
-      .m       : : n
nxmm muauu um mN
t3m swm   u=a



-101-
Annex 16
DUIOCgATIC UEPUBLIC OF MUD&GASCAR
Foreste HeNemnt and Protection Prolet
Cost Recoverv
Integrated Porest Valley Develoument (AIVF)
1.       The proposed component would finance Infrastructure and equipments
for forestry, including nurseries in each of the Technical Support Center.
each will produce forest tree seedlings that will be sold to villagers.
2.       It Is supposed that, at least for the foreseeable future, the
demand for seedlings will not be great and Is estimated at 50,000 plants
per year during tho first three years of the projoet and 112,500 per year
thereafter. The demand could be much greater, and then nurseries will be
expanded.
3.       For the time being, seedlings are given, and not sold to vilalgers
according to an marrote (No. 4172/85 of the MPAEF). It has been requested
to GOM to modify this policy and to abolish that decre. It is assumed
that seedlings will be sold for PKG 1 a piece. This selllng price could be
increased If the demand shows to be greater than foreseon.
ZODAPARB
4.       The ZODAFARB program exists already and the project Intends to
suipport it. There is a current entbustsam in tree pianting and hence the
demand for seedlings can be estimated higher than for the village forestry
component. It Is tho,_ht that It is reasonable to foresee a demand of
540,000 seedlings per yeaL (compared to 524,000 during the last planting
season).
5.       Up to now, seedlings are given end not sold (soe poAr-. 3).  given
the intense assistance given to villagers, and their motivation toward tree
planting, it is suggested thf-'.- the selling price for seedlings should be
FMG 2 per plant.
Seed supply component
6.       One objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity in
madagascar to collect, store and distribute quality seeds of forest troes.
Part of the seed production could be exported, but, as madagascar is not
yet known se a forest tree seed exporter, only about 252 of the production
is expected to be exported. It is suggesteds (a) to keep the current
export price, even after the recent devaluation, In order to help penetrate
the export market, and (b) to licrease the selling price for the local
market up to 50 of the export price ln order to better reflect production
costs.
7.       One objective of this project component is to improve the control
of the forest exploitation, In partiular In the Manjakandrisna forest end
the manjakandriana plantations.
8.       It Is assumed that by yt*r 7 of the project, the collection rate
will be lncreased from 402 to 80 S of actual felling (the franz vill
decrease from 602 to 202), that the average stumpage rate (redev&nce de



-102-
coupe) will be increased by 402, from FMG 1000/13 to PMAG 1400/m3, and that,
as a result, the felling in the natural forest of the antananarivo wood
supply zone (the only one included here) will decrease by 202.
Fanalamani a component
9.       The objective of the component is to exploit the existing Mangoro
forest and sell trees to private enterprises that will transform wood into
charcoal, boards, etc.. .Although charcoal could be exported to the Middle
East (as Kenya and Zimbabwe do), it is not expected that Panaltmanga will
do ltt on a significant volume. However, export Is a real possiblitiy for
mill-sawn logs enterprises that will buy trees from Fanalamanga. Before
the July 1987 devaluation was effective, the selling price of mill-sawn
logs was estimated at 10,000 PMG/m3. One assumes that 251 of mill-sawn
logs will be exported, starting 1991/92.
MADAGASCAR
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
EXPECTED COST RECOVERY
FANALAMANGA (see Annex 15)
OTHER COMPONENTS
Year
unit    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    Tot.
AIVF
Seedlings produced    '000    50 ---------- 112.5 -------------   600
Sales, e FMG 1 each   F'OOO   50 ---------- 112.5 -------------   600
ZODAFARB                               I
Seedlings produced    '000   540 ----------------------------- 3,780
Sales, @ F 2 each    F`000  1080 ------------------------------ 7,560
Seed Supply (see
working paper)        F mill.  63   80   95  110  127 ---------   729
forest Managementl   F mill.   0   14   28   42   56   70   84   294
Total                P mill.  64   95  124  153  184  198  212  1.030
1) Assuming that by year 7 the collection rate is increased from 401 to
801, that average stumpage price ('redevance") Is increeased by 401 from
FMG 1,000/m3 to FMG 1,4001m.3, and that as a result the felling in the
natural forest in the Antananarivo wood supply sone (the only one included
here) will decrease by 201.



-103-
Total Cost Recovery in current dollars (000)
AIVFt, ZODAFARB, Seeds           39   52  62   71   81   82    82  469
Fanalamanga                     102  145 237  307  471  681   960 2903
TOTAL                     i-i  197 299  378  552  763  1042 3372



0.uermt Coo l. Pl;. (111. RSIll) (1)
10117/, 1960/69  1959/9   1990/91  1991/12  low"48/   15/94  1"$/95  MGM/  1996/9  low/9S  199/99  19690   0000/01 1- %/45  IIas  00050   1004S   mg/os
WrR-       - L--                                                                                                                          -'  - - - - -
I. Prjc eZoEtresw2
2o7     se       *195     21U       71T      61n6    2172     1        1700     1700     1700      t        1700              170      17n0     10       1M        1701
se     is"      2t       I=       19a    17S9       4t       iO    10          180      low       2800     Sao    OIID       289      i8       1800     180O    1890
gm614s                     1499     1405    100        265        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
ub2n                                                     40        71      87        69       Sa 8                00       0        0         0      30         0        0        0  
2.  aymt to MA
Comitmotolc.  530                            27       47       IS        se       24       11        1
I.1rvloo d4a                         8        11      84        49       se       70       s0      20      1w5       10l0      Is      lO       104       iN       100      10       100       96        5
PPI0                                          0        0         0       0        0         0        0        0        0                9a       90      22        186      18       us  8
tat.  S  89      SI       a        01       94   8 0         1a       l05      106       w0       11       194      901                        an       so7  8  836  491
Total Outflo          _          31          J            .11  _1 -in -                                                                  7 -  -
1. co" in....
t,FS)                               0       77       I80      191      269  U2S          40       47      a8m       80       800      800       MDO   s0          80                         60 
F _  (9)                    0        0         a        0        0        0        0        0      4M      1407     Z          s  a7    6                840      am00     am       810o    4100
Taxes   dies                       MO       11S4      72       8        Us       760     2I7       66       700      700      VW       700      VW        700      700      700      780      700      700
Sub to.tl                      100        1                        8972     1101     l        116t     IlS    1260       87       s3       465      4400      400      40       40       SW       am
S. Ewbarmal Flawmalee
mA                                1        171     218        110      80       8ow     84         m
Swiss                                0     aa6        1       l64      gm       2is  1e     0 lo  1
0      478      436      8        7        719      w3       718
SbtoWa                     I1I00     Soo0    806       8672    4801      4178     0122    gm6
ITAL DAe m  -E    W    4   -                                                 W  _                   t                     W1m Sl
Rig Cab Flow P.                         an7     .290    -am    *-41          17       gm       -29    -177Y     -7W        71       "I1    771               X11                         14,      1f
1. Current bo      to 1994, cosetan  term thereftop (eopt MA mre*   ..m wat)
2. Z*clud ta.lsca o d pries a t_;
8. F;nwcW       b hi,_ VW34   *I
4. Loss S rom'3  to PenalmmaW (dun.. 14, Table 4)
S. 0.85 am   adebreo dwA
6. 0.786 on principal du
t. IS u.r year for ears, 11 to 20 (1  year               pero 4 , pr,  *treat,
O.  re   ue18 (FCoat MPslyve) u.ia  local                so      unt l 1994/96
9. Suimbure_m  by PenaI emeaf to am  f loan G    prinppdel * iatoreot) O1m  di,ldond  (Ai.. 14. Tabl- 4). Plus 86 sww ytS  -at   1999/o
-i.



-105-
Annex 18
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forests Manatement and Protection Prolect
Working Papers
SUBJECT
1.    Forestry Department Reinforcement
2.    Pilot Forest Management
3.    Private Roforestation (ZODAFARB)
4.   -Integrated Forest Valley Dev. (Aivf)
5.    Seed Supply and Forest Stations
6.    Research
7.    Natural Forest Protection
8.    Mangoro Plantation Management



MAD KaASA
THIRD FR        CT
Currt.'t Orsnlgram.: DI rctl" dhg Emux at Forot.
DES E. ET PORI S 
DII ICE DE LA PROTECTWN          SERVCE        SLRE                                           ISEIC  FORESTATII
KE LA MAT=ETR DES               ER EXPbLOI1ATI                                                    ET CONCtYlATSbl
ItESERtVE NM lU S            .        1  ,O                                                             DESW
DOAINE         FUIRE, FAME         EXPLOITATIN  DENAIRE ET                        STATS          RALE ET CONSEtVATIN    ROIEO ATIN
IRONMEMFl         FCMMI         AMENAGU IEE _                                       DES SOLS
FORES
DIISO  DVSIN DIVISION
WFUI ET           IS      E
TATTuit Ijo FnWSCIE
(Ar..u  16516 2   da/    12 Jul. 1S96



MADAGASCAR
THDRD FiES7RYPROJECT
Propood Oraniar m_: Diroction den Eaux ot Foroto (D.E.F.)
SE|VIC  ARDIRECTION
DES ENUX AR FORTTS
UJNIT       l4 TANN 
REER NDINATOR E
SERYO CE DE IVISION   SDVOICE INIVENAIRE                                                      SRSVICE RESONETATION
DE UL  ATARI ET DES                      ET EXPLOITATIONS      Cr
RESERVE- NATURELLES                        FORESTIERES                                           FORESTIERES
IDVII    IIDS1N   DIVISION              I   DM-SION        SDIVISZON     I                   DIVISION    SOIrSraN 
DOZADNE FLORE, Fl UK       COSRMIO            XLITATION  IKVEFvTAIRE Er                     STATIONS     REFORESTATION
FORESTIERET ENNIRtN 09ENT  DSSOSFORESTI ERE   AMYEWAGE NN                                   FORESTIER ES      (2)
(S)   (6)           (a)             ~~~ ~~~~(1)  faRESTIElR (1)                    (4)
sTATISTIqUES   ET FDN^NCER 
(1) Forest Management Compornent
(2) ZODAFARS Component
(8) AIVF component
(4) Soed Supply and Forestry Station component
(6) Nnaural Forest Protection component
(6) Sector Management componont
Note: Research component: done by FOFIFA (Ministry of Research)
Mangoro Plantatton/Fanalamanga are not part of D E.F., but part of WPAEF.



MADAGASCAR
THIRD   F iPJECT
OUrani79    FANALAUANOA
IDRECTIONE|
DIRECTION
AIAT
PLANTATION       GENIE CIVIL        ADINI ST                           MIE IN VALEUR *CONTROLE DE
SYLVICULTURE      ET NECANIqUE        ET SOCIAL          FINANCIER     DES REBOISEUENTS                           GESTION
PLANTATQN        INFFURASTrCTURE    AFFAIRES COENEALES   FINANCES       AMNACEMENT MAIEFoRMATIqu
ESSAI            MATERIEL          ET CONTENTIEUX       MARCHES
SYLVICULTURE        ET PARC            RESSOURCES          COMPTA-       EXPLOITATION                              BUDGET
ETUDES         | HMAINES              BILITE                                                 CONTROLE 
REGION           I REION            RECIQN      1
[      SUD  |]        |  CENTRE             NORDM
mFORETS     |      FRETS            FORETS
I GENIE CIVIL    I ODE CIVIL   I         8IIE  CIVIL
I ET UECANIQUE   I I ET MECANIqUE   Ir MECANIQUE
ADVINISTRATIF       ADMINISTRATIF    ADM|N|   STIF
ET COMPTASILITE     E |T COPTASLITEL  ET COUPTADILITE
* Comprad comrci.llistion



-109-
Chart 4
MADAGASCAR
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
UNITS COORDINATION
rD7 RCTEUR.
IEAUX ET FORETS
COORDINATEUR
PROJET
'ONSEILLER                                  COORDINATEUR
FINANCIER                                    FORMATION
1 REGISSEUR
1 ADMINISTRATIF
2 COMPTABLES



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Forestry Management and Protection Project
Organization Chart of MPIAEF
j    HECTkARUIA'P           'I_. P_ACT'S
BJft6AU~ ~ ~ ~ CGHIIN    ________NI-STRE                         _._                .__
| EUEAU  SATIN7 r I
ET  COMUICATION  r ..                                                                                - -Li
f                 _~~~~~~1
l   SECRETARIAT GENERAL
PROGR*fMOATIOkf ET!        DIRE~CTION                  MEICTIDADot=   ac 
I'E L'ELEVAGL             PES rrAUX E-T FMT MAQUAULIM~
ETU013 EC       Ms~VtcE mrCTW,WAra          PloEc;CflOi4MrJ  ETP     IPEQHE ZMIbDR?ELL-
COr4YrAUILIY& UT~&FHAU   07EK
_T 1PRORAWTIN DCOtITIONg EtD aES   _ 
N W~~~~~a  FIATDo                         PVLEB .
El PORMMOHN    - UTR        DE                         t       <I  1&
,                 -OOtL-S 
rt
ffi  ET  tON  Of X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



42~~~ ~ 46. AU                                                                                     A
MADAGASCAR
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
TROISIEME PROJET FORESTIER                                                                                       /
N.y A.                'bte
RN VI        <
ANE PXO                                      RWCIES G   CX                                 A O N ES
_______      A APAVMO ROADS
------LMANG   IANAION                        ALL-__ iWEATER ROADS
PIANTAIN DUJMANGORO                          ROAMS ACC~ESSS  EN~ ROUM                                  A.A.N
A   G ESONI ,,,,  RWAYS                                                                                         "ANTSiNAtA
U      zat                                    +     AIRPORTS                                                            RN IV
U IN?RIR I        VAIFYDEVESOPMAjT
_     AM&L4DAIENTINTGRE DES VAILEES          _      R 
_   FCYESIIERES                                RFES                                                                b       
FOREST
RN Vl   NAltRAL RESERVE                              FORETS
RESERV NATIMffUE
PN     NAIONAL PA,     FASTrAW DES FNDARESY
PARC MATiESIALaW DE    AN
INTSINATIONALSONAIS: ,I-JV
ILWTE DETTS
KILOMETERS 0     50      100     150    200
MAILES 0         50           100
MAHAJA NGA                              'T.orono
A.d~~    ~ ~ r0e.d         4-0               +
Ad ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
.              B .. h~-               '                                                                               m'    a.,.
Fanrafonq    F       rna aw
'    AmtL 0               ANTANANAR53 IX X                              ~        f
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~
b ~~~~~~Tsinii .rII
9 5.M ...   sirabl >ro
-               J          Ambohimoklxbot>f   YA- lla
,                                  ktAnaaha,'E
~~~~~~~ 4.?                                                       460 *i._''/     o 4 j>                                                             r
Toliamb      W       ,/                             t     ar       >/                             ,     AZN 
.24'~~~~ 2  ,ilbx--7                                                                                     '       ,t         
;    S .;  >\ %   b5t yO    berketetR       M._                                        )   
n                            .          ,           &                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFRIAjr
rs 412                                44                    D             46                                 4i                                                          _ 



