Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1878 MAG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                (Forests Management and Protection Project)
                                  between
                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated March 23, 1988
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1878 MAG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1988, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   part of the Project will be carried out by Fanalamanga with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Fanalamanga a part of the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Association, acting
as Administrator of development aid funds provided by The Kingdom of Norway
a grant (the Norwegian Grant) in an amount of NOK thirteen million (NOK
13,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the Norwegian Grant Agreement);
      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Swiss
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of
ten million four hundred thousand Swiss Francs (SwF 10,400,000) (the Swiss
Contribution) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland; and
Page  2
      (E)   Switzerland has appointed the Association to administer the
Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of a Procedural
Agreement dated April 9, 1987 (the Arrangement) between Switzerland and the
Association, and the Association has accepted such appointment;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and Fanalamanga;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Fanalamanga of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Fanalamanga pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (c)   "MPAEF" means Ministere de la Production Animale (Elevage,
Peche) et des Eaux et Forets, the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry;
      (d)   "MPARA" means Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la
Reforme Agraire, the Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform.
      (e)   "AVF" means Amenagement des Vallees Forestieres, the Forest
Valley Development;
      (f)   "AWSA" means Zone d'Approvisionnement en Bois d'Antananarivo,
Antananarivo Wood Supply Area;
      (g)   "AIVF" means Amenagement Integre des Vallees Forestieres, the
Integrated Forest Valley Development;
      (h)   "CU" means the coordination unit within DEF established to
coordinate implementation of the Project;
      (i)   "DASS" means Division Appui Suivi et Statistiques, the
Monitoring and Stastistics Division of DEF (defined below);
      (j)   "DEF" means Direction des Eaux et Forets, the Forestry
Department of MPAEF;
      (k)   "DEL" means Direction de l'Elevage, the Livestock Department of
MPAEF;
      (l)   "DIR" means Direction de l'Infrastructure Rurale, the Rural
Infrastructure Department of MPARA;
      (m)   "DVA" means Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole, the
Agricultural Extension Department of MPARA;
      (n)   "Fanalamanga Statutes" means the Statutes of Fanalamanga as
Page  3
approved by Arrete No. 1731 by the Borrower dated May 16, 1975, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
      (o)   "FOFIFA" means Foibem Pirenena Momba ny Fikarohana Ampiharina
amin ny Fampandrosoana ny Ambanivohitra, of the Ministry of Scientific
Research and Technological Development;
      (p)   "PEP" means Programme de Depenses Publiques, Public Expenditures
Program;
      (q)   "SPN" means Service de la Protection de la Nature, the Nature
Protection Service of DEF;
      (r)   "ZODAFARB" means Zone Delimitee d'Action en Faveur de l'Arbre,
Reserved Private Reforestation Area;
      (s)   "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account
established by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss Contribution;
      (t)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated December 1, 1987, and January 5, 1988, between the Borrower
and the Association;
      (u)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement and "Special Account" means each individual
special account;
      (v)   "FMG" means Franc Malgache, the currency of the Borrower; and
      (w)   "fiscal year of Fanalamanga" means the period starting on July
1 and ending on June 30.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million one
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount of the Swiss
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Swiss Contribution.
      (b)   Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree,
the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed,
mutatis mutandis, by the provision of the General Conditions.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain three special accounts, one for each part of the Project, in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Two
of the Special Accounts shall be kept in dollars and one in Swiss Francs.
Deposits into, and payments out of each of the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall he January 31, 1996, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1,
1998, and ending February 1, 2028. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amount of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the abovementioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project through DEF with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and Forestry practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the
Page  5
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and
B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) cause Fanalamanga
to carry out Part C of the Project and to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Fanalamanga
therein set forth; (ii) take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Fanalamanga to perform such obligations; and (iii) not
take, or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
      (d)   The Borrower shall relend a part of the proceeds of the Credit
to Fanalamanga under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Fanalamanga, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall provide, inter alia, that an
amount equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to Category C of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for the carrying out of Part C of the Project shall be on-lent to
Fanalamanga at an interest rate per annum equivalent to the lending rate of
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in effect on the
date of approval of the Credit by the Association, plus ten percent (10%)
of such lending rate, to be repaid in 26 semi-annual installments following
a grace period of seven years, with a commitment fee of 0.75% per annum on
the amount undisbursed and with the foreign exchange risk on such amount on-
lent to be borne by Fanalamanga.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part C of the Project shall be carried out by
Fanalamanga pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account or the Swiss Contribution Account was made; and
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (d)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (c) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
                  Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
                  procedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Fanalamanga shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Fanalamanga will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   Fanalamanga's Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of Fanalamanga to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Fanalamanga
or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right
Page  7
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant or the Swiss
Contribution to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the Norwegian Grant Agreement or the Swiss Contribution Agreement.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph
(e) (ii) of that Section with respect to the event specified in paragraph
(e) (i) of such Section 5.01.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and Fanalamanga;
      (b)   Arrete No. 4172/85 pertaining to the free disposition of
seedlings has been abrogated;
      (c)   counterpart funding procedures satisfactory to the Association
have been put into effect by the Borrower and the Borrower has made an
initial deposit of $130,000 equivalent for Parts A and B, such deposit to
be made into the account opened by the Borrower for the purpose of
counterpart funding;
      (d)   the conversion into equity of FMG 27.8 billion of the debt of
Fanalamanga to the Borrower has been completed;
      (e)   all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the
Norwegian Grant have been met; and
      (f)   all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the Swiss
Contribution have been met.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by Fanalamanga, and is legally binding upon Fanalamanga in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and Fanalamanga in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. In the event that Switzerland or the Association
Page  8
terminate the functions of the Association as Administrator pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the Arrangement, the Association shall notify the Borrower
promptly of the date on which Switzerland shall assume the rights and
obligations of the Association under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere aupres de la Presidence de la
                  Republique charge des
                  Finances et de l'Economie
            Antananarivo
            Madagascar
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                        22489
                  Antananarivo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                  By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
                       Credit and Swiss Contribution
Page  9
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Part A of the Project - Forestry Development Reinforcement
                          Amount of
          Amount          the Swiss
          of the        Contribution
          Credit          Allocated         % of
         Allocated       (Expressed       Expendi-
        (Expressed        in Swiss          tures
          in SDR           Francs           to be
CategoryEquivalent)      Equivalent)      Financed
A.  (1) Civil works              _          1,760,000     80%
    (2) Vehicles                 -          1,760,000     100%
        and equip-
        ment
    (3) Consultants'             -          3,600,000     100%
        services
    (4) Training                 -          1,600,000     100%
    (5) Local staff              -             80,000     100%
        cost
    (6) Vehicle                  -          1,330,000     50%
        maintenance
    (7) Unallocated              -            200,000
        Sub-total                -         10,330,000
             Part B of the Project - Natural Forest Protection
B.  (1) Civil works                                       90%
        (a) for the        150,000                  -
            new
            national
            park under
            Part B.1 of
            the Project
        (b) other        1,220,000                  -
            civil
            works
    (2) Vehicles           260,000                  -     100%
        and equip-
        ment
    (3) Consultants'       220,000                  -     100%
        services
    (4) Training                 -             70,000     100%
    (5) Local staff         10,000                  -     100%
        cost
    (6) Vehicle            140,000                  -     50%
        main-
        tenance
    (7) Unallocated        200,000                  -
        Sub-total        2,200,000             70,000
           Part C of the Project - Mangoro Plantation Management
Page  10
C.  (1) Civil works        950,000                  -     70%
    (2) Vehicles           180,000                  -     100%
        and equip-
        ment
    (3) Consultants'       170,000                  -     100%
        services
    (4) Maintenance        220,000                  -     30%
        plantation
        and infra-
        structure
    (5) Administra-        610,000                  -     50%
        tive costs
    (6) Unallocated         70,000                  -
        Sub-total        2,200,000                  -
    (7) Refunding of       700,000                  -     Amount due
        Project                                           pursuant to
        Preparation                                       Section 2.02
        Advance                                           (d) of this
                                            Agreement
        TOTAL            5,100,000         10,400,000
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
    (b)   payments made for expenditures under Category A (1) through (6)
for Part A of the Project and Category B (1) through (6) for Part B of the
Project until:
          (1)   the project coordinator within the CU has been appointed
                and a financial advisor and a training coordinator, with
                qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
                Association, have been employed;
          (2)   the staffing plan of DEF, including the assignment of staff
                for each activity under Parts A and B of the Project, has
                been put into effect; such plan to be acceptable to the
                Association;
          (3)   the AVF activities, which are carried out in zones in which
                the Project will be executed, and the Savoka project have
                been merged into AIVF within the Soil Conservation Division
                of DEF and an animation unit within such Division has been
                established;
          (4)   a contract between DEF and DVA satisfactory to the
                Association for carrying out Part A.4 of the Project has
                been concluded; and
          (5)   a contract between DEF and FOFIFA satisfactory to the
                Association for carrying out research under Part A.7 of the
                Project has been signed;
    (c)   payments for expenditures under Categories B (1) (a) for Part B.1
of the Project until the decree creating the new national park in the
Andasibe region has been published in the Journal Officiel of the Borrower;
and
    (d)   payments for expenditures under Category C (1) through
(5) for Part C of the Project until:
Page  11
          (1)   a sales service within the Departement de la Mise en Valeur
                des Reboisements of Fanalamanga has been created and a
                sales manager with qualifications and experience
                satisfactory to the Association has been appointed; and
          (2)   an amount equivalent to FMG 857 million has been disbursed
                from the loan of the Borrower to Fanalamanga for use during
                the 1988 fiscal year of Fanalamanga.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the capacity of DEF
to manage the forestry sector and carry out priority programs to implement
the Borrower's National Conservation Strategy and Forestry Policy; (b) to
stimulate private reforestation by rural and urban populations; (c) to
prevent further degradation of natural forests; and (d) to assist
Fanalamanga in developing the Mangoro plantation to a production level which
allows sustainable and profitable exploitation.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Forestry Development Reinforcement
1.  Sector management strengthening activities, including improvements in
sector programming, program monitoring, financial management, information
system and forestry promotion.
2.  Formulation and implementation of a forest exploitation policy relating
to the forest revenue systems, the planning and the control of exploitation
permits, including the carrying out of pilot forest management activities,
a forest resource inventory of AWSA, identification of major conservation
areas, a study of major wood products sources and markets, identification
of major areas of agricultural encroachment on forests, a study of ownership
patterns of the eucalyptus area, elaboration of an AWSA framework plan, and
preparation of a detailed forest management plan.
3.  ZODAFARB program to stimulate private reforestation in the regions of
Antananarivo, Mahajanga and Antsiranana consisting of sensitizing, training
and supervision of the operators concerned, development of nurseries,
acquisition of equipment for land preparation and planting, and road
rehabilitation and tracks to access plantation areas.
4.  A program of integrated forest valley (AIVF) development activities
which addresses the issue of slash and burn cultivation in the eastern
forest, including sensitizing, and supervision of the populations concerned,
small-scale irrigation works in forest valley bottoms, agro-forestry on
valley slopes for soil conservation, food crops and export crops, testing
of community forest management, and support to secondary products such as
fruits, apiculture and fishery and the construction and equipping of
technical support centers and staff training.
5.  Seed supply activities, including the construction and equipping of
regional seed collection centers at Fianarantsoa, Toamasina, Mahajanga,
Antsiranana and Toliara.
6.  Rehabilitation of forestry stations at Angavokely in Antananarivo and
Marohogo in Mahajanga, including the rehabilitation of buildings for
educational purposes, preparation of species trial sites and the provision
of material and equipment for station maintenance and applied research.
7.  Research activities, including:
    (a)   regeneration techniques for the eucaplyptus plantations in the
Antananarivo region;
    (b)   testing of multipurpose woody species beneficial to erosion
control, fertilization, fodder, fuelwood at Beforona Research Station, in
real sites and monitoring of agro-forestry measures;
Page  12
    (c)   species trial, natural regeneration study and agro-forestry
techniques testing in the region of Toliara; and
    (d)   species trial in the Marohogo forestry station.
Part B:   Natural Forest Protection
1.  Introduction of forest protection measures in the regions of Andasibe
(150,000 ha) and Ankarafantsika (135,000 ha), including development of a new
national park in the Andasibe region; improved demarcation methods, usage
of patrols and enforcement of boundaries; use of buffer plantations;
promotion of tourism; and development )f village participatory methods to
support forest conservation.
2.  Expansion of forest protection measures to the reserves of Zahamena
(93,350 ha) and Tsaratanana (138,872 ha).
Part C:   Mangoro Plantation Management
    Implementation of a sylvicultural program including selective pruning
and thinning and the carrying out of:
    (1)   a fire protection program;
    (2)   road maintenance and construction of secondary roads and forest
tracks, upgrading of the central all-weather service road and bridge
rehabilitation;
    (3)   inventory programs to monitor plantation resources;
    (4)   pasture improvement for local village communities
adjacent to the plantation; and
    (5)   research to monitor the impact of the sylvicultural program,
including (a) continuation of the production-oriented research, with
emphasis on wood utilization, and (b) research on the regeneration of the
plantation.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Implementation Program
Public Expenditures Program (PEP)
1.  The Borrower through MPAEF shall: (a) by November 15 of each year,
starting with the 1989-1991 cycle, furnish to the Association for approval
a sector PEP; and (b) prior to initiation, furnish to the Association for
approval each new forestry project having a cost in excess of the equivalent
of $3,000,000.
Organization and Staff
2.  The Borrower shall maintain within DEF the CU with qualified and
experienced staff in adequate numbers for purposes of coordinating execution
of Parts A and B of the Project on the basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
3.  The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1988, prepare specific job
descriptions for staff of DEF assigned to the protection of the natural
forest program.
DEF Work Program
4.  The Borrower shall, by September 15 of each year, furnish to the
Association, for review and comment, the annual work program of DEF and
shall, by November 30 of each year, furnish to the Association the final
annual work program, which shall reflect the comments made by the
Page  13
Association.
Forest Revenue System
5.  The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1988, prepare a schedule and an
action program for the definition and implementation of appropriate changes
in the forest revenue system, including appropriate modifications of the
collection system and forest exploitation regulations; such schedule and
action program to be acceptable to the Association;
    (b)   by December 31, 1989, the Borrower shall implement such action
program.
Seed Prices
6.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, adopt a seed pricing table and
procedures for adjusting such prices so as to be satisfactory to the
Association.
Fonds Forestier National
7.  Before the Fonds Forestier National becomes operative, the Borrower
shall obtain the prior approval of the Association of the terms and
conditions which shall have an impact on the financial management of the
Project.
ZODAFARB Program
8.  The Borrower shall, during execution of the Project, limit the
individual participation in the ZODAFARB program to 100 ha.
Training
9.  By August 31, 1988, the Borrower shall adopt criteria and procedures,
acceptable to the Association, relating to the selection of participants for
overseas study and study tour participation.
Mid-Term Review
10.       The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1991, furnish to the
Association for approval the draft terms of reference, together with a
proposed staffing plan, for the mid-term review; and (b) by May 31, 1992,
furnish to the Association for review and comment such mid-term review.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall he grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A. 1 hereof , goods manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works for Parts A and B of the Project, and goods estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract up to an aggregate of
Page  14
the equivalent of $900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that:
    (a)   registration of bidders in the Borrower's Registry of Commerce
shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
    (b)   no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected tendering
or direct contracting except in the case of rejection of all bids;
    (c)   bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives shall be allowed to be present; and
    (d)   no special preference shall be given to local bidders in the
evaluation of bids.
2.  Civil works for Part C of the Project may be carried out by Fanalamanga
on the basis of force account in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $150,000 or more and with respect to each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract, together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower and Fanalamanga in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and Fanalamanga shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Categories" means Categories set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  15
    (b)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
          (i)   in respect of Special Account A, Categories A (1) through
                (6) and B (4);
          (ii)  in respect of Special Account B, Category B (1), (2), (3),
                (5) and (6); and
          (iii) in respect of Special Account C, Category C (1) through
                (5);
    (c)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (d)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
          (i)   an amount of SwF 500,000 in the case of Special Account A;
          (ii)  an amount of $250,000 in the case of Special Account B; and
          (iii) an amount of $180,000 in the case of Special Account C.
    Such amounts are to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposited into the respective Special Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts may
be made as follows:
    (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the respective
Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as the
case may be, and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of each Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as the case may
be, and deposit into the respective Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as the case may be,
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account for which
the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the
time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.  (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into a Special Account shall be made by the Association
when either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)   the Association shall have determined that all further
                withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
                the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as
Page  16
                the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of
                Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
          (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss
                Contribution, as the case may be, allocated to the eligible
                Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special
                commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
                Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
                Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
                amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.
    (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss
Contribution Account, as the case may be, of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in
any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into such Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution
Account, as the case may be.
