Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR 4Z- -Z..79-7t-q
Report No.8655-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
JULY 23, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central African Department
Ths document has a restidcted dsbutdo and may be used by     ey In the peimnmn  of
thei offl duties Its contens may od othewise  e disclosd       World Bflak auta.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CPA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1          - CFAP 285 (July 1990)
CPAF 1 Million = US$ 3,185
SDR 1          - US$ 1.299
MEASURES
l m       =     1.09 yd.
1 m2           10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2     =     0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAC                  Upper Secondary Leaving Examination (Matriculation)
(Baccalaureate)
BEP                  Vocational Diploma
(Brevet d'Etudes Professionnelles)
BEPC           =    Lower Secondary School Leaving Certificate
(Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle du Second Degre)
BT                   Technician Diploma
(Brevet de Technicien)
BTS                  Higher Technician Diploma
(Brevet de Technicien Superieur)
CAP            =    Certificate of Professional Training
(Certificat d'Aptitude Professionelle)
CNPP           =    National Center for Vocational Upgrading & Training
Centre National de Perfectionnement Professionel
DAC            -    Directorate of Administrative Affairs
(Direction des Affaires Conmunes)
DAFPP          -    Direct-rate of Apprenticeship and Vocational Training
(Direction de l'Apprentissage, de la Formation et du
Perfectionnement Professionnel)
DERP           =    Directorate of Studies, Research and Strategic Studies
(Direction des Etudes, de la Recherche et de la
prospective)
DET            8    Directorate of Technical Education
(Direction de l'Enseignement technique)
FNAFPP/NTF     .    National Training Fund/Fond national d'Apprentissage,
de Formation, et de Perfectionnement professionel
GTZ            -    German Technical Cooperation
METPP           =    Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational
Training/(Ministere de l'Enseignement technique et de
la Formation Professionnelle)
RTC            =    Regional Training Center
Centre de formation regional
VET            =    Technical Education and Vocational Training
(Enseignement technique et Formation professionnelle)
FISCAL YEAR                                            SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                                   September - August



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................... v
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................................................... 1
II.  THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT          ..1..................... 
A.   The Economy ................................................. 1
B.   Human Resources ............................................. 3
III. THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM    .. 5 
A.   An Overview .............     ...................................  5
B. Current Major Constraints                    ..                    7
1.  The Present Orientation of VET .......................... 7
2.  Management and Planning Weaknesses in VET ............... 8
3.  Outdated Qualifications of VET Personnel ................ 9
4.  Inadequate and Unstable VET Finances .................... 10
C.   The Government's Sector Strategy ............................ 11
D.   The Bank Group's Role ....................................... 12
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT ............................................. 13
A.   Project Objectives .......................................... 13
B.   Detailed Description of Project Components .................. 14
V.   PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION .................................. 21
A. Project Cost and Financing                    ..                  21
B.   Project Implementation ...................................... 22
1.  Preparation, Management & Implementation ................ 22
2.  Procurement ............................................. 24
3.  Disbursements, Special Account, Accounts & Audit ........ 24
4.  Monitoring & Reporting .................................. 26
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................... 26
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................... 27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
the Republic of Togo in October 1989. The mission members were Christopher
Shaw (Mission Leader, Educator), Bernard Salome (Economist), Stavros
Syrimis (Consultant, Technical Educator), and Francois Orivel (Consultant,
Economist). This report was drafted by the mission members and completed
by Mr. C. Shaw, assisted by Mr. M. Welmond and Ms. B. Moll-Drucker
(Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



iti
ANNEXES
1,1  Basic Data .....................................................
2.1  Global Employment Prospects....................................
2.2  Structure and Organization of the Training System..............
2.3  Organizational Chart of METFP.............................
2.4 Profile ef the Technical and Vocational Training System........
3.1  'nstitutional Support for METFP................................
3.2  Labor Market Monitoring System.................................
3.3  Training of VET Sector Staff...................................
3.4  The National Training Fund....................................
3.5  Examples of National Training Fund sub-projects................
(a)  Reform/rehabilitation of training centers.................
(b)   (SAVPs)..................................................
3.6  Project Management, Organization and Supervision Plan..........
3.7  Project Costs.................................................
3.8  Recurrent Costs and Savings generated by the project...........
3.9  Disbursement Profile...........................................
SCHEDULES
MAP



iv
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                           Documents
D40607         Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et de la formation
professionnelle (Republique Togolaise) *Requete du
Gouvernement de la Republique Togolaise pour la
Restructuration du systeme d'enseignement technique et de
la formation professionnelle (Programme Quinquennal 1991-
1995)" Juin 1990.
D40608         METFP:  Decret No:90-681P  *Portant application de la Loi
No.88-17 du 07 decembre 1988 creant le Fond National
d'Apprentissage, de Formation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnell
D40609         NETFPP  Direction de l'Enseignement Technique 'Plan de
Formation premiere annee CAP' Juillet-AoUt 1989
0406010         'Restructuration de l'Enseignement Technique et de la
formation professionnelles Rapport Intdrimaire.' Techno-
Transfer. Lome Octobre 1988.
D406011              *Le Secteur Modernet Situation et Perspectives'
0406012              *Emploi et Formation: Secteur Informel' Annexe
Technique - Volume 4. Octobre 1988
D406013              *Identification des Activites renumeratrices agricoles
et non-agricoles en Milieu rural' Etude-Volume 3.
Octobre 1988
D406014              'Synthase et actualisation des dtudes concernant
l'enseignement technique et la formation
professionnelle au Togo" Annexe technique-Volume 1.
Octobre 1988
D406015              *Renforcement de la Capacite de conception et de
reflexion du METFP; Mise en place de la Direction des
Etudes, Recherches, et Prospectives.' Novembre 1988



v
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Government of the Republic of Togo
Beneficiarv:   Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
(METFP)
IDA Credit
Amount:        SDR 7.0 million (US$9.2 million equivalent)
Termss         Standard w_th 40 years maturity
Onlending
Terms:         Not applicable
Pro3ect
Description:   The project would support Government's training strategy by
restructuring technical education and vocational training
systems (VET) and spearheading the change from a socially
oriented supply driven training system to a demand driven
system, employment oriented and responsive to the needs of
the economy, particularly the private sector. It would
support development of the planning and monitoring capacity
of the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational
Training (METFP) and allow it to fcllow the labor market
trends and to launch, in cooperation with employers, a wide
spectrum of training activities, with both investment and
related budgetary support via a National Training Fund.
Finally, the proposed loan would finance the development of
sector specific vocational training centers which, in
collaboration with industry, would professionalize the
formal and informal training system through re-structuring
and reorienting technical and vocational training. The
project components are as follows:
I. Institutional Development
1. Strengthening of METFP's Directorates
2. Creating a Labor Market Information System
3. Monitoring the VET Reform Program
II. Training of sector personnel
1. Improving Management and Administrative Staff
2. Retr&ining & Expanding Instructional Staff
III. National Training Fund
1. Creating the managerial structures
2. Funding Training Activities



vi
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(net of taxes and duties)
Local      Foreign    Total
--------(US  MlilIon)-
. Intitutlional D,velogeift
1. Strengthening METFP'a Directorates        1.01        1.54       2.64
2. Creating * Labor MUrket Information System    0.16    0.21       0.87
S. Monitoring the VET Retorm Program         0.15        0.54       0.69
Sub-Total I                                     (1.81)     (2.29)      (8.61)
I. Traln;ng of sector gersonnel in "duel' VET
1. Improving MUnagm"ent and Administrative Staff  0.00   0.41       0.41
2. Retraining A Expanding Instructional Staff    0.00    0.45       0.45
Sub-Total II                                    (0.00)     (0.07)      (0.67)
III. Notlonal Tralnlng Funtd
1. creting meh mnagerial etructure           0.25        0.16       0.44
2. Funding Training Activities               8.81        4.70       8.01
Sub-Total III                                   (38.6)     (4.88)      (8.44)
Total rsn Costa                                   4.88       8.04       12.90
Physical Contingencies                           0.87        0.68       1.05
Price Contingencies                              0.98        0.81       1.70
Total Project Costa                                6.21       9.52       15.78
Financing Plan
IDA                                    2.48        6.67       9.15
EC                                     0.86        2.86       8.71
Government                             2.87        0.00       2.07
TO" tl                                       I.2         1
Estimated Disbursements from IDA credit:
…__-_<Calendar Year
(milIIons US8)
1990  1991  1992  1998  1994  1995  1996  1997
Annual:    -"I   0I 8    " 0   " 9M 1 2   2 2S     0   U6
Cumulative: 0.8   1.1   2.0   3.2   5.6   8.1   9.1   9.2
Economic Rate of
Return:          Not applicable
Proilect Benef its
and Riskss       Benefits.  The first benefit of the project is
institutional. The project will strengthen the key
strategic functions of the METFP, and put in place
procedures for the allocation and use of public funds.
Government will be better able to administer the VET
system. Direct association of the private sector in the
content and operation of the training activities will
establish automatic regulation of the system, thereby
improving its responsiveness to the needs of the economy.



vii
The second benefit is economic. It will come in the form of
an annual output of between 500 and 1000 skilled and highly
productive workers ready for immediate employment in pre-
identified posts. This will reduce the level of skilled
graduate unemployment and raise the productivity of the
workforce, thereby contributing to private enterprise
competitiveness. The third benefit is also economic; the
project will produce a number of efficiency gains. Changes
in testing and examinations, together with the adoption of
the dual approach to training should contribute to decrease
in student repetition. The dual method of training with its
work experience and practical attachments to industry will
also free-up training places allowing more efficient use of
existing facilities and an increase in the number of in-
service trainees. Finally, the use of competitive funds
will promote both quality control of training and cost
efficiency improvements. Efficient resource allocation with
better management, will reinforce, at the sector level, the
Government's structural adjustment program.
Risks. There are three main risks. First, Government's
commitment to allocate funds for VET through a competitive
national training fund (NTF) rather than through annual
budgetary allocations might wane. This was addressed during
project preparation with the finalization of all necessary
legal documents needed to allocate the proceeds of the
vocational training tax to the training fund. To ensure
implementation, a specific conditions has been attached to
this credit. Resource allocation wil' also be addressed
through regular annual review of public expenditures and
public investments which are due to take place for this
sector in the framework of the macroeconomic adjustment
program. Second, there is a possibility of reluctance on
the part of the private sector to play an active role in
training of the workforce. This risk has been addressed
during project preparation. At that time, the private
sector was fully consulted and played an active role in the
preparation and design of the projects now in the pipeline
awaiting NTF financing approval. In addition, kETFP is
preparing a guide for employers interested in using the NTP
and will run a national publicity campaign. Finally, the
METFP has limited capacity to manage the implementation of
a project of this nature. This issue is addressed by
phasing the Implementation of the project to minimize the
burden on the institutions involved in the VET system. The
METFP will be reinforced with short-term consultant
services in specialized training issues, and training
programs will be run for the national team in charge of the
project.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Part I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Togo has requested IDA assistance in financing
a project to make the technical education and vocational training system
(VET) more responsive to the overall development objective of growth with
equity. In this context it is critical that the department responsible for
VET, the Ministry of Technical and Vocational Education (METFP) develop
training programs essential for growth (through the provision of skilled
manpower), and for equity (through furthering productivity and employment
opportunities). This will require reorienting technical and vocational
training toward a system driven by labor market demand. It will also
require employers to become more involved in training program design, skill
certification, and management and financing of training institutions.
1.02      To provide the feedback needed to organize training along the
lines of actual labor market requirements, the project will create a labor
market monitoring and analysis capacity. In addition, the project will
reform existing training institutes by increasing the practical content of
4-ehnical education and the theoretical content of traditional
apprenticeship programs. The goal is to further the employability of
graduates of these institutes and link training closer to actual labor
market needs by developing a dual training approach in collaboration with
employers. Finally, the project will set up a National Training Fund (NTF)
'Fond national d'Apprentissage, de Formation, et de Perfectionnement
professionel: FNAFPP' to finance training activities. The labor market
monitoring system will supply the criteria for the selection of training
projects for funding by NTF. The total project will cost approximately
US$15.7 million (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange
component of US$9.5 million. Of this the Government will contribute US$2.9
million, the European Community (EC) will contribute US$3.7 million and IDA
the remaining U$9.2 million.
PART II. THE MACRO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. THE ECONOMY
2.01      Togo is a small open economy, dependent primarily on food and
cash crop (cocoa, coffee, and cotton) production, mining (phosphates), and
regional trade. Since 1983, Togo has been engaged in a wide-ranging
economic adjustment effort focussed on correcting macroeconomic and
structural imbalances resulting from inappropriate economic policies
pursued during the second half of the 1970s. This effort has been
supported by the World Bank through three structural adjustment credits:
SAL I (1983), SAL II (1985), and SAL III (1988).
2.02      Reform efforts pursued during SAL I and II were successful in
reversing the negative trend in growth. However, Togo's economic and
financial situation deteriorated sharply in 1986/87 due to weakened



2
external demand for Togo's primary commodity exports, heavy external debt
service payments, and a surge ot extra-budgetary spending by the government
in late 1986. To address these problems Togo resumed economic reform
efforts in 1988 within the framework of its Third Structural Adjustment
Program. This program was supported by the IUF, debt relief from Paris and
London Club creditors and multilateral and bilateral donor assistance. Bank
support for this effort was provided through a $45 million Third Structural
Adjustment Credit. The major elements of SAL III were the implementation
of a flexible agricultural producer pricing responsive to world market
conditions, the establishment of a new industrial incentive system to
promote private sector investment, the creation of a new legal framework
for Government - parastatal relations and enhanced efficiency throughout
the public enterprise sector, and a strengthened public investment program.
Under the Third Structural Adjustment program, real growth accelerated to
almost 5 percent in 1988 and is estimated at 3.7 percent in 1989.
2.03      This structural adjustment program will continue during the
1990-92 period. The broad outlines of the Government's strategy in this
regard are set out in the recently negotiated Policy Framework Paper for
1990-92 which takes as objective the promotion of growth with equity. The
Government intends to put particular stress on human resource development
and assuring adequate levels of expenditures for critical social services.
In the context of this strategy, the Government has negotiated a second-
year ESAF arrangement with the Fund and is seeking Bank support through a
Fourth Structural Adjustment Loan, discussions on which are far advanced.
2.04      Under the 1990-92 program real growth is projected to rise to
4.5 percent per year by 1992 and stabilize at this level over the medium
term. Private consumption per capita is expected to show positive rates of
growth beginning in 1991, permitting an improvement in living standards.
Increased agricultural production, resulting from improved agricultural
support services and enhanced marketing efficiency, will be a key source of
medium term growth. In addition, light manufacturing, while a relatively
small proportion of GDP, will provide an important contribution to overall
growth, with real growth rates of up to 1OZ a year forecast in rertain
manufacturing sub-sectors.
2.05      Given the small size of its domestic market, the attainment of
these growth objectives will depend heavily, however, on Togo's ability to
maintain and increase export competitiveness. As a member of the West
African Monetary Union, Togo efforts in this regard have focussed on
reducing real costs and creating a favorable economic environment for
private sector investors. Togo enjoys a number of benefits in this regard,
notably its relatively low cost of labor and its well-developed infra-
structure. In addition to efforts undertaken under SAL III to rationalize
its tariff system and overhaul the investment code the Government has also
been moving ahead on the establishment of a Free Trade Zone to provide
further encouragement to foreign investors. Under the Free Zone arrange-
ment, investors will be permitted to import duty-free raw materials and
intermediate products and will receive certain fiscal advantages provided
that at least 80 percent of their production is destined for export. While
realizing that it may take time to set up, Government has placed great
hopes in the Free Zone to attract foreign private investors and increase
employment opportunities, particularly for labor-intensive operations.



3
2.06      Increases in labor force productivity will be critical to the
success of Government's strategy to promote private sector investment
through a favorable enabling environment. Equipping the labor force with
marketable skills will materially enhance the attractiveness of Togo to
foreign investors, by reducing the labor cost per unit output, and will
also encourage the substitution of labor for capital thus maximizing the
employment effect of new investments. Both effects can be expected to
increase the amount of employment over what otherwise would have been the
case. In addition, under the impetus of the Free Trade Zone and other
investment incentives the structure of labor demand can be expected to
shift, with increased needs for professionals in the areas of industrial
electricity, maintenance, etc. This will call for a closer link between
labor training and labor market demands.
B.   HUMAN RESOURCES
2.07      Population: Togo's population of 3.6 million has an average life
expectancy of 53 years. Its growth rate of over 3 per cent, one of the
highest in all of Africa, hides a significant rural exodus. The rural
population growth rate is 2 per cent a year, while that of the urban
population is over 6 per cent. Patterns of migration show a net out-
migration from all four of the more rural provinces towards the more
heavily urbanized Maritime region in which the capital Lome is located.
Such a high growth rate has severe implications for the social and economic
welfare of the country, in which the population density is almost 60
people/km2. Aware of the impact of high fertility rates on socio-economic
factors, the Government began taking limited measures to promote family
planning in 1977 through maternal and child health care services. Annex 1
prnvides basic data on population, education and employment.
2.08      Labor Force and Employment: In 1989 the potentially active
population (ages 15 to 59) was 1.44 million of whom 1.33 million were
actively occupied, the remainder being students, urban unemployed workers
and non-working urban wives. Of the active population some 76,000, or 6 per
cent of the total was found in the modern sector, 280,000 or 21 per cent in
the urban informal -ctor, and 972,000, or 73 per cent of the total, in the
formal and informal rural sectors. Annex 2.1 provides details on the global
employment patterns with details on industrial and informal sectors and on
agricultural employment.
2.09      Modern sector activities are heavily concentrated in the
Maritime region. This area alone contains 85 per cent of modern sector
enterprises and provides 88 per cent of salaried labor. Of those employed
in the informal sector, 27 per cent are located in LomO, 62 per cent in
rural areas and 11 per cent in other urban areas. The informal sector is
especially important for the employment of women in the economy. While 33
per cent of the women in Lome are active in the labor force, half of these
are traders in the informal market. For 90 per cent of them this activity
is the sole source of income.
2.10      It is difficult to estimate actual levels of unemployment. An
ILO study of 1985 estimated Togo's urban unemployment rate to be 16 per



4
cent as a whole, with rates of between 20 and 25 per cent in Lome. Total
employment in the modern sector declined from 88,000 in 1981 to 80,000 in
1985 and further to 76,000 in 1989. The drop occurred exclusively in the
public sector because of the closing or privatization of public enterprises
and the freeze a". public sector recruitment (Annex 2.1, Table 1). In
agriculture, unemployment in the true sense of the term does not exist,
although underemployment does. Much of underemployment is seasonal due to
planting and harvesting patterns and inclement weather. Overall, the modern
sector was more severely affected by the economic downturn than the
agricultural and informal sectors. It is clear that school graduates were
seriously affected by the contraction in available modern sector jobs. With
an already over-staffed government administration, future graduates will
have to turn to the private, informal, and agricultural sectors to find
employment, with consequent need to enhance the workforce's productivity.
2.11      Balanced Human Resource Development: Human resource development
will be vital to Government's overall growth strategy (paragraphs 2.05-
2.06). Achievement of the growth objectives will depend heavily on the
availability of skilled and adaptable manpower. Yet, so far, the training
system's contribution to this effort has been inadequate. Only about 59 per
cent of children of primary school age were enrolled in school in 1989.
Increasingly difficult economic conditions have brought about reduced
enrollment as parents observe that schooling does not guarantee employment.
Total educational enrollments in 1989 were 614,450: 510,000 at the primary
level; 78,000 at lower secondary level and 14,200 at upper secondary level;
6,100 in higher education; and a total of 6,050 in technical education
(CAP-BEP 3,700; baccalaureate 2,350; 63 per cent in public and 37 per cent
in private establishments). The population skill profile is poor; 59 per
cent of the population is illiterate, only 21 per cent of the population
gain access to secondary education, less than 6 per cent of these undertake
technical or vocational studies and an insignificant proportion receive any
form of on-the-job-training in the modern sector. Consequently, of those in
employment in the modern sector, only fifty per cent are officially
'qualified' (holders of certified/recognized diplomas).
2.12      The future workforce. Recent studies show that annual job
creation in the modern sector will rise from about 1,100 today to 1,650 in
1992, and to about 2,000 in the mid 1990s; this means that approximately
2.5 per cent of each age-group will join the salaried formal sector of the
economy. The remaining 97.5 per cent of the youth seeking employment will
enter the non-agricultural informal sector and the agricultural sector. The
distribution of new jobs between these two sectors will depend on the rate
of economic growth and on agricUltural productivity. If growth falls below
the targeted levels, the distribution of employment is unlikely to change
greatly; 16,000 youths will enter the non-agricultural informal sector and
62,000 the agriculture sector. However, with more rapid growth, the job
opportunities in the year 2000 are likely to be more in the non-
agricultural informal sector (about 24,000) and less in agriculture (about
54,000). Of those youths who will join the labor market each year over the
next decade, about 60 per cent, or 50,000, will have received some form of
schooling. The remaining 40 per cent, or 30,000, will not have had an
education; their employment possibilities remain limited to the traditional
agricultural sector. Consequently, of 100 school leavers seeking employment
each year, four are likely to find employment in the modern sector, between



5
32-48 in the non-agricultural informal sector, and the remainder, 48-64, in
agriculture (Annex 2.1, Table 2).
Part III. THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SECTOR
A.   AN OVERVIEW
3.01      Structure and Administration: Togo's technical education and
vocational training system (VET) comprises three levels. Technical studies,
lasting 3 to 4 years, are available at the lower secondary (technical
colleges - CET programs), upper secondary (technical lycees - LT
programs), and post secondary (post-BEPC et post-baccalaureate) levels.
Vocational training covers both formal and non-formal education. It is
available through (i) the existing apprenticeship training scheme; (ii) in-
service or upgrading training programs of the METFP; and (iii) a variety of
other training activities outside the formal education system run by other
ministries or public and private agencies. The Ministry of Rural
Development (Ministere du Developpement Rural) is in charge of agricultural
education. Some other technical ministries and agencies opeiate specialized
training institutions.
3.02      The METFP is the main provider of VET in the country. The Higher
Council of Vocational Training (Conseil Superieur de la Formation
Professionnelle) is a consultative body including all ministries and public
institutions directly or indirectly involved with training as well as
representatives from the private sector 1/. The Council gives advice on
policy matters pertaining to VET; it malas recommendations tu the Minister
(METFP), who makes the final decisions.
3.03      The Ministry's internal structure comprises four directoratess
(i) The Directorate of Studies, Research and Prospective (DERP) (newly
created with Bank assistance) in charge of research and studies on training
and employment; (ii) the Directorate of Technical Education (DET), in
charge of programs, examinations, administration, as well as documentation
concerning technical colleges and lycees; (iii) the Directorate of
Apprenticeship and Vocational Training (DAFPP) in charge of programs,
administration, examination and regulations concerning apprenticeship and
other types of vocational training; and (iv) the Directorate of
Administrative Affairs (DAC) in charge of personnel, budget, construction
and equipment. The Organizational Chart of METFP is given in Annex 2.3.
3.04      Overall, in 1988, the public training system accommodated
approximately 3,800 students (1,048 in CETs and 2,700 in LTs). Private
technical institutes enroIled some 2,400 students at the same time (700
CAP, 1200 BEP, 500 BAC). The total teaching staff was about 252 in public
schools and 123 in private schools. This gives an average student/teacher
3/   The Minister of Technical Education and Vocational Training presidos over the council.
The Ministers of Education and Labor are vice-presidents. There are 30 additional
member of which 9 represent several ministries, 5 represent employers (including
parastatal *ntitles) and 6 represent employes. A permanent technical committee
composed of 11 members *erves as the Council's secretariat.



6
ratio of 15.0 and 19.8 respectively. Full details of enrollments in
technical and vocational training are given in Annex 2.4.
3.C5      Women are under-represented in the overall public system
accounting for only 11.2 per cent of all enrollments. This is because most
training does not currently respond to women's needs. In the private
sector, female participation is already much higher and is growing steadily
because of the large number of secretarial programs (however, there is a
danger of saturation in this field).
3.06      Traditional apprenticeship training has a long history in Togo.
It consists, in the main, of learning from *the master' to gain access to
crafts in the informal sector. It is an unregulated activity. Vocational
training institutes include the National Center for Vocational Upgrading
(CNPP) ir Lome, a semi-autonomous institution, responsible for upgrading
workers on-the-job. Very little is being done in this respect. There is
also a large number of private vocational training centers, particularly in
the tertiary sector. Their training is mainly oriented to the commerce and
services sectors. Private vocational training is regulated by the METFP.
Only 15 training institutions are officially recognized by METFP and have
permanent licenses to operate. The structure of the Education and Training
System is given in Annex 2.2. Annex 2.4 provides the details on programs
and enrollments of vocational training.
3.07      Financing: Public and private technical and vocational training
is not free. Public tuition fees are CFAF 3,600 per pupil per year. Fees in
private schools vary from CFAF 25,000 to 8rAF 55,000 per annum. Apprentice-
ship fees vary according to the trade and while the METFP is trying to
introduce standardized fees, they currently vary from CFAF 35,000 to CFAF
160,000. With the exception of apprenticeship, which is self-organized and
self-financed, the Government is the main provider of training in the
industrial and commercial areas, Government finances practically all of the
public institutes' budgets. Total public spending on technical and
vocational education was 3.6 per cent of the national education budget in
1988. Actual recurrent spending is very small amounting to CFA? 647.5
million in 1988 and CFAF 532.7 million in 1987, of which CFA? 134.5 million
were subventions to CNPP. In addition to the Government's budget, there are
receipts from fees and other minor domestic sources of financing which
together yielded some CFAF 52.2 million in 1987/88. External assistance for
technicallvocational education is important. France, the Federal Republic
of Germany (GTZ), and UNDP (with ILO as an executing agency) make important
contributions to operating and investment expenses. In 1988, capital
expenditures for the METFP amounted to CFAF 340.6 million, of which CFAF
190.5 million were committed in 1988, and the remaining were programmed for
1989. Maintenance, construction, and training are almost wholly funded by
donors with assistance from the private sector.
3.08      A 'vocational training tax', equal to one per cent of salaries,
is paid by all modern sector non public service employers. When fully
operational, this tax would generate some 300 million CFAF per year
(roughly 30 per cent of VET expenditures), but until mid 1989, proceeds
from the tax were merged with central Government revenues. A law, passed in
December 1988, transfers the proceeds of this tax to the HETFP to be used
for training. The law was applied during mid-1989 and a proportion of the



7
proceeds are held in the Treasury awaiting finalization of the necessary
administrative arrangements to allow their use by METFP. Procedures have
been agreed and METFP will start to use the proceeds of the vocational
training tax during 1990. Further details on the training tax, its size and
use are given in paragraphs 3.22. Additional details on sector financing,
the METFP budget and actual sector expenditures are given in Annex 2.4.
B. CURRENT MAJOR CONSTRAINTS
1.   The Present Orientation of VET
3.09      So far, pending implementation of the Government's new training
policy (see section C page 11), the VET system has been pursuing goals that
reflected a confused sense of its mission. First, VET has tended to prepare
students for further studies and higher education rather than for the labor
market. At the industrial baccalaureate level, although there is a serious
shortage of technicians (estimated demand of 150 per annum against a supply
of 50), the few graduates the system provides are neither equipped for, nor
interested in technician jobs. The only aspiration of these graduates is to
enter university for further studies. Once there, however, they encounter
difficulties as they have to compete with general education graduates, who
usually are better prepared for university studies. This use of technical
education as a preparation for further studies is both more expensive and
less efficient than general secondary education (Appendix 2.4). Second, the
METFP has tended ignore the realities of the labor market in attempting to
respond to student and parent aspirations. Not only has this interpretation
of the "social role' of METFP led to unrealistic expectations but it is
also often incompatible with improvements in the productivity and employ-
ability of the workforce. Finally, pre-employment training has been
expected to have a direct impact on poverty by reducing youth unemployment
in general or by improving access to employment for the disadvantaged. But
;ETFP has not been able adequately to train young people for specific jobs
in the labor market or workers already in the work force.
3.10      The consequences of this orientation are serious. Effective
linkages between the macro-economic strategy and technical and vocational
training policy are not yet manifest. In part, VET's unrealistic social
approach has led to the current mismatch between training output and the
labor market. The content of training programs reflect educational goals
and social concerns, resulting in 'academic" examinations rather than any
measure of compatibility with and responsiveness to the labor market. This
overly academic training without work skills and attitudes does not produce
the innovative technicians and middle level managers needed to promote
private sector, competitive enterprises or self-employment (para.1.06-
1.09). On the other hand, the current traditional apprenticeship training
lacks theoretical content. It is seen as a provider of a "free' workforce
rather than as a training process. It does not allow trainees to learn more
than purely repetitive motor skills. Consequently, they do not learn to be
creative, diagnose, and develop the skills needed to adapt to an evolving
technological and entrepreneurial environment.
3.11      The content of instructional programs is driven by examinations
and reinforces the educational rather than the employability goal; in part,



8
because the METFP was created from the Ministry of Education, a heavy
bureaucratic structure resistant to change. While technical exams are set
and marked by the METFP, general subjects are still set and marked by the
Ministry of Education. METFP's training institutions are not held
accountable for their trainees' failures and appear to be complacent about
their employability and low success in final examinations. Togo does not at
present have a sound trade skills assessment and certification system
relevant to industry's requirements, particularly at the skilled worker
level. The CAP certificate issued at the end of technical college studies
is really a school certificate. Employers take no part either in the
preparation of the relevant examinations or in the assessment of their
results. A 15 to 20 per cent success rate in technical baccalaureate
examinations for the public schools can only be explained by the fact that
the quality of training is extremely poor and that the examinations'
content is irrelevant to the program content. The same holds true for
private schools and for the Apprenticeship Certificate where, of the 1100
to 1200 taking the examination every year, only about 400 succeed. In this
latter case, most failures are related to theory, an area in which
apprentices have had no exposure whatsoever.
3.12      Employers are dissatisfied with METFP trainees. Consequently,
finding employment in the modern sector is difficult for technical school
graduates. Indeed, employers are not actively involved in the process, a
sine qua non condition for effective training. Experience suggests that
unless they are directly engaged in the training process --financially,
administratively and through involvement in program design and development-
- the training system carnot produce workers of the competence the economy
requires in order to remain competitive in the international market. There
is therefore a need to encourage employers, through incentives such as
relevant work skills development, to invest in training either directly, by
developing in-house training, or indirectly, by sub-contracting --while
still bearing its full cost-- to public or private training institutions.
3.13      The METFP is reorienting the VET system. This implies greater
involvement for business, industry, commerce and employers with their
active participation in the training of the future workforce. It also
implies reorienting the VET system away from traditional academic type
examinations towards a trade testing and certification system where
employers and professional trade and craft associations play a predominant
role in the preparation of the tests and in the assessment of their
results. This involves standards, set by METFP in direct consultation with
employers, that specify the skills and knowledge to be acquired and the
criteria for skill certification and tests. Finally, there is a need to
establish mechanisms that will assist training institutions to become more
accountable for the services they render and to publish transparent
performance criteria by institution.
2.   Management and Planning Weaknesses in VET
3.14      Weak implementation capacity is another broad cause behind poor
performance of the system and has slowed the implementation of the reform.
The Ministry's creation in 1984 took place in an adverse financial climate,
slowing down the development of an appropriate administrative framework and
leaving considerable qualitative and quantitative gaps in its staffing



9
(teaching and administrative). The resulting constraints are evident at the
Ministry level in strategic planning, monitoring, evaluation and feedback.
There is some overlapping of responsibilities between directorates, due in
part to unclear definition of duties and to the vacuum which existed before
the creation of a planning directorate with Bank assistance (DERP). With
DERP's effective operation in 1989, other directorates of METFP need to be
streamlined, reorganized and a more functional distribution of
responsibilities is required. At the instructional level, the links between
training institutes and the national development strategy are weak.
Training institutes operate in a vacuum as a result, in part, of their lack
of awareness of labor market needs and information. Vocational Training
Centers have little, if any, contact with industry and lack specific
management capabilities necessary to organize and administer flexible dual
training programs as envisaged in the proposed reform.
3.15      The METFP's past strategic planning and guidance for the whole
of the training system has been inadequate. This is evident in the absence
of school supervision, weak control of private schools, and deficiencies in
the research and planning process. For instance, there is a large number of
private vocational training centers in the tertiary sector, most of which
operate without licence. Many of these centers provide low quality training
and attract students who dropped out of the formal education system and
found all other doors leading to further education/training closed. Some of
these private centers tend to exploit their students, who pay to receive
not only a low quality education but one that is virtually useless because
of the large surpluses in this area of the labor market.
3.16      Most inadequacies are the result of the lack of a mechanism for
collecting and analyzing information on labor market and training needs, as
well as weak linkages between the training system and employers. Labor
market information exists, but it is dispersed, not collected by Government
on a regular basis and not analyzed. Likewise, little is known about the
lot of METFP trainees once they leave their training institutions. A study
of those graduating from technical school in 1985 shows that over 25 per
cent remained unemployed 10 months after taking the CAP exam. Twenty-nine
per cent found full-time employment in the formal sector, and 48 per cent
had at least a part-time position. Of those who became employed, 28 per
cent were salaried, 46 per cent self-employed, and 26 per cent apprentices.
Apprenticeship often makes it easier to obtain full-time employment in a
large firm later, as there tends to be a lack of equipment at the technical
schools that limits students' practical experience. Obtaining a diploma
(passing the exam) was also shown to lead to an improvement in a student's
chances of finding employment. Conscious of this situation the DERP has
been given the role of providing strategic guidance for training using a
new labor market and training monitoring system.
3.   Outdated Qualifications of VET Personnel
3.17      Both the quantity and quality of staff have a direct impact on
the adequacylquality and relevance of the vocational training provided.
Sector management is weak at all levels, due to improperly trained
administrative staff. There is general scarcity of management and business
skills, particularly among the training center staff. Directors, workshop
chiefs and instructor trainers lack understanding of labor market realities



10
and needs, relevant training delivery systems, and trades, crafts and skill
certification. Staff, trained for traditional formal education
environments, most often do not have practical skills nor sufficient
theoretical knowledge to respond to the current training and employment
requirements in Togo.
3.18      At the root of the relevance issue is the weak linkage between
the training system and the end-users of the technical/vocational training
system, the employers. The Higher Council of Vocational Training, in which
employers are represented (Annex 2.2), is a consultative body with strong
Government representation; its recommendations have little influence on
curriculum construction and development. The fact that the technical and
vocational education system is a recent 'spin-off, from the general
education system explains these loose links with employers. Some of the
administrative workers in the training centers behave as school staff. They
lack specific management skills to organize and administer flexible, work-
oriented programs. Program designers are not in a position to develop
industry-related programs because of a lack of job profiles prepared in
collaboration with employers and because they do not have the skills and
experience required to undertake such a task.
3.19      The quality of current programs also suffers because of a
shortage of qualified teachers and vocational instructors (Annex 2.4) and
the lack of industrial experience of most of the instructors. The GTZ
conducted a survey, which identified training needs for VET instructional
staff. This includes training of teaching staff as well as new instructors
in a number of specializations. Although skill-upgrading at all levels and
in all areas is of vital importance for improved management and increased
productivity, very little of it has been done so far. The CNPP, which was
established for this purpose (one of its roles is instructor training), was
sidetracked in 1979 to apprenticeship training. Only now has it started
reconsidering its mission. The CNPP is however not yet prepared to
establish the necessary linkages with industry and the appropriate
mechanism for collaborating with employers in recruiting and upgrading
workers and foremen. The task is made that much harder by a production/
service unit attached to the CNPP which is entirely disconnected from the
institution's mission and is responsible for a considerable drain on the
CNPP's recurrent budget.
4.   Inadequate and Unstable VET Finances
3.20      Financial issues underlie many other problems, particularly
those of quality. Total METFP expenditure in 1988 amounted to only 3.6 per
cent of the national education budget (paragraph 3.07) which itself has
declined over the last five years from 222 to 202 of the total Government
budget. Salaries of technical teachers and instructors are inadequate to
keep experienced staff within the system, and sums allotted to training
materials are insufficient for proper training. Maintenance of equipment
(particularly acquisition of spare parts for repairs) also suffers
considerably, and old and dilapidated equipment is difficult to replace.
Inadequate equipment also adversely influences the quality of training. In
fact, the problem often extends beyond inadequate initial supply of
equipment to lack of systemic maintenance and difficulties in securing the
necessary spare parts to keep equipment in good working order.



11
3.21      The one per cent payroll tax (Annex 2.4), called the 'vocational
training tax', will indirectly help raise revenues for vocational training.
It has not yet proved to be efficient because: (i) until mid 1989 it was
used as a source of general revenue feeding directly into central
Government resources; and (ii) it has been perceived by employers to be
just another commercial tax unrelated to training services received, if
any. When fully operational it would generate about CFAP 300 million per
year. This is less than 0.2 per cent of the total government fiscal
receipts, but would increase the resources available for VET activities by
about 30 per cent. Currently, the necessary administrative regulations to
allow METFP to access the proceeds of the tax and to allocate them to
specific training activities have been agreed and are being implemented.
This will provide incentives for both small and medium scale enterprises to
undertake training of their workers. Trainees from VET programs will be
better trained, directly employable and will improve the productivity of
the workforce. Their entry into employment, from programs supported by the
vocational training tax, will generate additional receipts from the one per
cent payroll tax, thereby leading to a sustainable VET system.
3.22      Understandably, the VET recurrent budget is restricted because
of overall financial constraints. Yet there is waste of these already
scarce resources mainly because of high repetition and dropout rates and
the consequent low efficiency of the training system as a whole. Financial
problems as related to unit costs are discussed in Annex 2.4. For the
technical baccalaureate alone, where only 15-20 per cent of the cohort will
graduate on time, high levels of repetition and drop-out can raise the cost
per graduate from a theoretical minimum of CFAF 273,000/graduate over CFAF
1.0 million/graduate. Similar waste is observed in private schools where
the consequences directly affect the students. Another major source of
waste is the CNPP which, with its production-services unit, at present
absorbs over 20 per cent of the annual METFP recurrent budget but
contributes only marginally to the productivity of training.
3.23      There is therefore need for both efficiency gains through
improved performance and increased resources through a partnership with
industry. Past funding of training institutes was by administrative
decision inside the budget and was allocated without any reference to
performance criteria. In order to respond to the rapidly changing needs of
the evolving labor market, the Ministry needs to shift from administrative
funding of training activities to competitive flexible funding based on
performance. This type of funding would thereby become not only a saving
device but also an instrument of quality control of training services.
C. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR STRATEGY
3.24      Government's new policy for VET is clear and on target. It
consists of a new orientation for VET, built on revised administrative
structures and a redistribution of responsibilities between Government and
the private sector. The policy includes new delivery methods for VET and an
updated content and assessment system. The basic philosophy underlying the
policy is to shift the training system from a supply-driven system with a
dominant social orientation to a demand-driven system linked to employment.



12
This will improve its adaptability and responsiveness to labor market
movements and thus link it directly to macro-economic conditions and in
particular to the adjustment process.
3.25      VET reforms started early. In 1984 the Government created the
METFP, and later in 1986, the Government created the Higher Council of
Vocational Training to increase non-government participation in the sector.
Current policy calls for a greater involvement and role for the private
sector, especially the business and industrial community. The role of
Government will be essentially limited to providing such a framework and
ensuring that standard traiaing requirements are met at the vocational
training schools and on-the-job.
3.26      The new delivery methods for VET are built round two ideas:
'dual' training methods and 'professionalization' of the content. Dual
training involves modular instruction in training institutes and part-time
practical instruction and work experience in business and industry. The
dual training method has key elements of the West German vocational and
professional training system. Of 3 to 3 1/2 years duration, it combines in-
school general and trade-oriented training with on-the-job practical
training to achieve a smooth transition from school to work.
'Professionalization' involves two changes. First, technical education will
be made more practical and occupation-related. Second, theoretical
instruction will be introduced in apprenticeship training. Practical,
occupation-re! ted work has increased from 30 per cent to 50 per cent of
training content and an effort is being made to incorporate on-the-job
training during the 2nd and 3rd year of studies. These actions are already
indicative of the Government's determination to plan training programs in
accordance with labor market signals.
3.27      A consequence of the above reorientation is the replacement of
traditional examinations by trade tests where employers will have a
predominant role in their preparation and assessment. In line with the de-
emphasis of traditional "academic" exams Government is converting most
industrial Baccalaureate programs into corresponding technician programs.
3.28      On the financial side, two changes are underway: firstly, an
increase in total resources for technical and vocational training; and
secondly, revisions in the method of allocation of finance for training
activities. The use of the proceeds from the vocational training tax for
the funding of training activities will increase resources available for
VET. Although the sum is, at least at present, insufficient to cover all
VET financial needs, it will nevertheless provide the tool for a radical
reform as envisaged in this project. Concurrently, the funding of training
will gradually switch from funding through the budget based on
administrative decision to funding from flexible finances accessed via a
competitive national training fund. The latter requires establishing and
disseminating regular performance criteria for training courses based on
labor market performance.
D. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE
3.29      Experience with Past Lending. The first IDA-financed education
project (Cr.1018-TO for US$ 11.0 million approved in FY80), assisted



13
Government to: (a) improve primary teacher quality; (b) reorganize and
strengthen the primary and teacher training curriculum; and (c) train
agricultural technicians and agricultural science teachers and advisors for
primary and secondary schools. Construction activities were completed six
months behind schedule, and the project was officially closed on June 30,
1986. The Project Completion Report, stated that, while the project had
only partially met the educational objectives in agricultural training, it
had exceeded its goals in the training of primary educational supervisors.
The report indicated that pre-service training was constrained by the civil
service hiring freeze which was one of the strategies included in the
Government's financial stabilization and structural adjustment program. The
report also cited an overestimation of the Togolese labor market's capacity
to absorb secondary school leavers and agricultural trainees.
3.30      The second IDA-financed education project, (Cr.1568-TO for US$
12.4 million approved in FY85) aimed to help Togos (a) improve the quality
of education by training 5.850 primary teachers and 1,250 secondary
mathematics and science teachers; (b) make affordable primary level
textbooks available; (c) improve physical facilities for secondary
mathematics and science; and (d) improve the management of education at all
levels by strengthening and reorganizing the Directorate of Educational
Planning. The project is progressing satisfactorily towards its
quantitative objectives at the primary and the lower secondary levels.
However, inappropriate budgetary allocations and the education ministry's-
lack of managerial capacity remain major sector constraints. Such questions
of long term sustainability and institutional building will be addressed in
the context of a future policy oriented project for general academic
education. Although implementation of the second project is slow, all
components of the project are due to be completed in June 30, 1991.
3.31      Bank Lending Strategy.  The thrust of IDA's country strategy is
to provide consistent and coherent support for the Government's efforts to
eliminate structural impediments to long term growth and development.
Education and training issues, especially as they relate to labor market
needs, have not been explicitly addressed in the previous structural
adjustment credits, and past human resources projects have been limited to
general education with no specific concern for underlying employment issues
such as training for the private sector and the general situation of the
labor market. Through its involvement, IDA will help integrate these issues
into the adjustment process, assist in improving Government expenditure
patterns in the sector and offset the social costs of adjustment, while
increasing the overall productivity of the work-force through a better
match between supply of and demand for skilled manpower. It will also
coordinate other aid efforts, primarily through improvements in sector
analysis, planning, budgeting, and management.
Part IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.01      The first objective of the project is to make the technical
education and vocational training system demand driven, employment oriented



14
and responsive to the needs of the productive sectors. Project investments
as well as operational support for training activities will assist the
Government to make this transition. The main strategy to address this
objective is to create: (1) a capacity to monitor the state of the labor
market and the performance of training institutions, and provide feedback
on employment to guide the funding of training; and (2) a flexible funding
mechanism to allocate finance to specific training programs as a
consequence of their responsiveness to identified labor market needs.
4.02      The second objective of the proposed project is to strengthen
METFP's capacity to implement the Government's reform program aimed at
making the formal aud informal training system more professional by
increasing the practical content of technical training and also
strengthening the theoretical content of traditional apprenticeship
programs. The project will support the institutional development of the
METFP and the reorientation of the existing training institutions away from
the academic examination orientation towards a regional technical and
vocational training system where technical training and apprenticeship
training are gradually integrated (Annex 3.1).
B. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.03      The project consists of three components: (a) institutional
development of the METFP Directorates to strengthen their planning and
labor market monitoring capacity and launch the dual approach to training
combining sound theory and practice; (b) initial and in-service training of
VET sector staff to improve the current administrative and instructor staff
hands on knowledge of the new dual training approach and to complete the
range of skill specializations; (c) start-up of the National Training Fund
to support the dual training approach and other training activities
(training sub-projects and work experience internship programs). The
following section describes the three components of the project and gives
details of their different sub-components that together address the
constraints of the VET system identified in Part III.
Component 1:Institutional Development of the METFP and Labor Market
Monitoring and Analysis
4.04      Component 1 is broken into three sub-components the first of
which addresses METFP's management and planning weaknesses (paragraph 3.15-
3.17) through the strengthening of METFP's directorates. This sub-
component will complete the reorganization of the METFP, which started with
the effective operation of the DERP, and will reinforce the Ministry's
capacity to implement Government policy and to respond to the training
needs of the productive sectors. It will draw into the process the non-
governmental partners and employers to ensure a better assessment of labor
market needs. Strategies include: (i) the elimination of overlapping
functions and weaknesses identified in METFP's directorates (paragraph
3.15); (ii) the provision to each directorate of the necessary training and
office equipment to effectively carry out its mission; and (iii) the
avoidance of creation of new administrative structures through the
realignment and reinforcement of existing structures.



15
4.05      First, the Directorate of Studies, Research and Strategic
Studies (DERP) will be further reinforced with technical assistance,
training and essential office equipment to enable it to: (i) provide
strategic guidance for the development of the whole of the training system;
(ii) identify training needs and use them to guide the development of VET
(using a labor market monitoring system detailed in the second sub-
component); (iii) provide criteria for the selection of specific training
programs for funding; and (iv) develop long term strategies on the basis of
tracer studies of trainees. By the end of 1990, it will have published a
guide informing interested parties how to solicit funds for training
services which respond to labor market needs. From mid-1991 onwards, it
will publish the performance of training institutions as measured by the
'employability" of their trainees. Through regular annual publication, it
will disseminate its findings to t.ainers, employees and employers in the
public and private sectors. Second, the Directorate of Technical Education
(DET) will receive support to enable it to: (a) promote a dual training
approach within training establishments in coordination with employer and
trade associations; (b) finalize the content of modular training programs
which represent a more flexible response to labor market ne"ds; and (c}
establish trade certification testing to replace the CAP by the end of
academic year 1991/92. Third, the Directorate of Apprenticeship and
Vocational Training (DAFPP), will receive support to enable it to: (1)
increase theoretical content in training programs; (2) provide proper
testing; and (3) improve apprentice monitoring. With the functions of the
DET and DAFPP becoming more similar, merging of these two Directorates is
programmed for the academic year 1992/93, thus complementary services will
be strengthened. Finally, from the beginning of the academic year 1990/91,
the Directorate of Common Affairs (DAC) will assume all responsibilities
regarding management of personnel, preparation and monitoring of recurrent
expenditure budgets, and investment in the training system. At that time
its title will be revised to reflect these responsibilities. The DAC will
receive training and.equipment to enable it to take on these tasks.
4.06      For all Directorates, the credit will finance the provision of
office and computer equipment, supplies, consultant services, vehicles, and
staff training. For the DERP, the credit will provide funding of the
incremental operational and personnel costs for this Directorate. In
addition, the credit will finance minor civil works for DERP's
documentation center. For the DAFPP and the DAC, the project includes the
extension and refurbishing of existing offices. Full details regarding the
implementation and costs of this institutional development sub-component
are included in Annex 3.1.
4.07      The second sub-component of institutional development will be
the creation of a labor market/training information system. Improving the
match between training and employment is a notoriously difficult task.
Traditional methods, such as rate-of-return analysis and manpower
forecasting methods have failed to achieve their objectives. Consequently,
the project will support the creation of the Training and Employment
Observatory (OEF), located within DERP. It will have a more modest
objective of providing ongoing information on the present state of the
labor market in order to supply feedback to different training institutions
regarding the relevance of their training programs. Where possible, the OEF



16
will rely on already existing sources of information (National Social
Security Fund, Ministry of Planning, Salary Section of the Ministry of
Finance etc.) in order to focus on the coordination, consolidation and
analysis of data to inform the training system. Only in exceptional cases,
where no existing data sources are available will the OEF conduct specific
data gathering exercises.
4.08      Data gathering will be conducted through three channels: (i)
Government employment records and the National Social Security Fund files
will be used as a basis for analyzing the labor needs of the public, para-
public, and modern private sectors of employment; (ii) working from
baseline measurements of informal sector activities performed by DERP's
ongoing research program --supported by IDA, OECD, and ILO-- periodic
censuses, profession-specific studies (10 per year) accompanied by in-depth
studies of selected enterprises --reinforced by coordination with NGOs--
will provide necessary information regarding the informal sector; (iii)
tracer studies on the employment results of graduates from training centers
and programs will supply the necessary data for an evaluation of the
relevance of the training system. The latter information will form the
basis of the performance criteria of training courses.
4.09      The OEF will focus on three tasks: (i) a presentation of data on
training and employment that will enable DERP to formulate selection
criteria for the allocation of funds to training sub-projects by the NTF
(component three); (ii) analysis of both employment and training data and
submission of the results to the DERP; (iii) regular publication and
diffusion of their findings to all interested parties (private and public
training operators, youth, adults seeking retraining, etc.). The credit
will finance the provision of computer equipment, vehicles, office
equipment, supplies, and consultant services necessary for the collection,
analysis and dissemination of data from the sources discussed above. A
detailed description of data gathering techniques, of the specific outputs
of the OEF, and of the implementation and costs for this sub-component are
included in Annex 3.2.
4.10      The third and final sub-component of institutional development
wvll address monitoring and implementing the reform. This sub-component
consists of: (a) monitoring and internalizing of the technical and
vocational training reform outside the METFP; and (b) coordinating of the
implementation of the proposed project inside the METFP.
4.11      To ensure that the reform is adequately monitored, not only by
METFP, but also by other agencies and partners active in skill training and
employment, to promote participation of non-traditional partners and to
allow for a wider view of training, the project will support regular
meetings of the Higher Council of Vocational Training. In addition,
information services, publicity and support for the increased participation
of non-traditional partners such as the skilled craftsmen associations and
the eventual tChambre de Metiers, will be provided. This will allow the
continuation and completion of ongoing studies identifying new partners for
training activities.
4.12      Second, this sub-component will provide the necessary support
for project administration and management. The project will not rely on the
,,I



17
creation of a Project Implementation Unit to oversee management of the
credit. Rather individual Directorates of METFP will have direct
responsibility for implementing their own portions of the project.
Nevertheless, given the need in the initial stages of the reform of
vocational training for overall management at a level capable of
coordinating individual Directorates, a project Coordinator, attached to
METFP's Cabinet under the direct authority of the Minister, and assisted by
an accountant, will be supported by the credit. The project c-ordinator
will oversee procurement, project accounts, withdrawal applications, and
auditing of the project.
4.13      Prior to negotiations, Government identified candidates for the
posts of Director of the DERP and Project Coordinator. Prior to credit
effectiveness, Government will have appointed the Director of the DERP and
the Project Coordinator. By the beginning of academic year 1990/91, DAC
will assume all responsibilities regarding management of personnel,
preparation and monitoring of recurrent expenditure budgets, and investment
in the training system. Before the end of calendar 1990, Government will
have sent to IDA the guide informing interested parties how to solicit
funds for training services which respond to labor market needs; and will
have sent to IDA for information the results of the study on the informal
sector. By February 1991, METFP will present to IDA a methodology for
analyzing the employment of graduates of training programs. By mid-1992,
METFP will share the results of the analysis of the employment of the
training graduates of the academic year 1990/91 with IDA. By mid-1993,
METFP will publish and make widely available the results of the analysis of
the employment of the training graduates of the academic year 1991/92. By
the end of academic year 1991/92, Government will have established trade
certification testing to replace the CAP; and will merge the DET and DAPPP
into a single Directorate by the end of academic year 1992/93.
Component 2: Training of VET Sector Staff
4.14      The second component will address the current VET administrative
and instructor staff's lack of knowledge of the dual training approach and
provide new skill specializations (paragraph 3.18-3.20). It contains two
staff training sub-components: one for VET administrators and managerial
staff and another for VET instructors. In order to make existing training
establishments more responsive to labor market demand, as will become
necessary as a consequence of macro-economic policy, staff will be trained
in the new modular curriculum, the dual approach to VET and their knowledge
of the labor market improved. This will include exposure to the current
employment situation in Togo through brief industrial attachments.
Administrative and managerial staff will learn the principles upon which
the reformed system is based. This includes first-hand experience of
similar systems which are functioning successfully. A limited number of
instructors will be trained in specializations identified through labor
market analysis not covered by other donor programs.
4.15      The following overseas training programs are proposed for senior
non-instructor staff. Through attachment to --and twinning arrangement
with-- overseas training institutes using the dual training approach, nine
training center directors will study dual vocational training in training



18
centers and gain industrial experience ir enterprises. The content of the
program is being finalized and will include training ins pedagogy,
management, career development and employment. Nine workshop chiefs will
receive training in the use of modular instructional programs. Six trainers
of instructors will study instructor upgrading techniques. Seven regional
Training Advisors, attached to each training center, will study how ro
establish closer contacts between the training centers and local business
and industry. Contacts have been established with other countries using the
dual approach to VET with a view to establishing a twinning arrangement.
The content of their programs will be tailored to the needs of the Togolese
personnel. The credit will finance the twinning arrangement with overseas
institutions including travel and training costs for the senior non-
instructor staff.
4.16      Instructor staff will receive training in a number of new
specializations and in-service training options. The GTZ financed project,
referred to earlier, has identified additional instructor specializations.
In total, twenty eight new instructors will receive training in 25 new
specializations and three new instructors will receive training in 3
existing specializations. A listing of the different specializatioas is
provided in Annex 3.3. As GTZ has already funded a portion of this
instructor training, the credit will complement this action by finarcing
the training of 18 of the new instructors. This activity is coherent with
and complements the GTZ funded instructor training. The project will also
finance in-country instructor upgrading and updating with in-service
training programs in CNPP. This program will follow the training of the
senior staff mentioned in the previous paragraph. The content is being
finalized and consists of individual modules dealing with business
practice, pedagogical training and technical upgrading. The credit will
finance the in-country travel and training costs, including the pedagogical
material for the instructor staff.
4.17      At negotiations, Government communicated to the Association the
content of the training courses for the senior VET administrators and
managerial staff and also for the VET instructors. Prior to credit
effectiveness, Government will send to IDA for information the list of
nationals selected for these training courses.
Component 3: The National Training Fund
4.18      The third and final component of the project will address
specific financial and resource issues (paragraphs 3.21-3.24) related to
the reorientation envisaged for the training system. This component has two
sub-components.
4.19      First, the component will finalize the procedures and
administrative framework needed to operate a National Training Fund (NTF)
which will finance training activities. This fund will finance training
sub-projects which have met certain specified criteria regarding their
relevance to labor market demand. The procedures to operate the NTF have
been agreed and the necessary legal texts adopted. A full set of criteria
to guide the selection of training sub-projects for financing by the NTF
have been agreed with IDA. Criteria include: (i) the existence of a



19
training agreement between industry and service representatives (including
representatives of small- and medium-sized enterprises as well as the
training center); and (ii) whether the sub-project meets training needs
identified by the Observatory (OEF). Specific criteria for sub-project
selection will be updated by the DERP on a regular basis and their revision
will be discussed with the Association before changes are implemented.
4.20      Rather than the Higher Council for Vocational Training which is
a large advisory body (see footnote 1 page 5), the NTF will be administered
by a small management committee which will include representatives from the
METFP and employer associations. The principal responsibility of this
committee will be approving funding for training sub-projects. Day-to-day
operations will be conducted by an Executive Secretariat. The Executive
Secretariat will identify and assist prospective solicitors in preparing
their funding requests and monitor that requests meet the agreed selection
criteria. To assist such prospective solicitors, Government will prepare
and publish a guide. The credit will finance the operating costs of the
management committee and the provision of eouipment, furniture, and office
supplies. Incremental salary costs will be financed on a declining basis.
Full details regarding the administration of the NTF and the specific
criteria for sub-project selection are given in Annex 3.4.
4.21      Second, the component will support the financing of specific
sub-projects by the National Training Fund. The credit will provide funds
to supplement those available from the vocational training tax. These funds
will be used to provide grants to training sub-projects which respond to
the criteria in effect. It is expected that between eight and twenty
training sub-projects will be submitted to the NTF each year. The sub-
projects will allow employers or training institutes to train groups of
potential or existing workers in specific work skills and will cover a wide
spectrum of activities leading to an annual output of between 500 and 1000
trained and skilled workers ready for immediate employment in pre-
identified posts. Several training sub-projects are already under
consideration. The appraisal mission examined dossiers for about 12 sub-
projects to be submitted to the National Training Fund as soon as it
becomes operative. The majority of these sub-projects are ready for
immediate implementation and await only the necessary funding. As a result
the pipeline of sub-projects for the first 18 to 24 months of the NTF has
already been prepared.
4.22      The main sub-projects concern the transformation of existing
technical colleges into Regional Training Centers (RTCs) which will follow
the new programs, the upgrading of equipment and the inclusion of greater
practical work in the training programs. Training programs which will
respond more directly to regional labor market needs are under preparation.
Dual training methods will be used in the RTCs, and modular specialization
programs will follow basic training programs, ensuring maximal flexibility
and relevance to current labor market conditions and needs (as determined
by the OEF). Detailed dossiers with the content of programs, planned
enrollments, equipment needs, related civil works, and costs are available
and constitute the first set of sub-projects to be considered for financing
by the National Training Fund. Details regarding these programs are
presented in Annex 3.5.



20
4.23      A sub-project of particular interest is the work experience
internship program (Annex 3.5 page 8). To facilitate the transition of
young trainees into the world of work, business, industry and training
institutes can approach the Fund for the financing of work experience
internships (Stage d'Adaptation a la Vie Professionelle, SAVP). A young
trainee from either a vocational training or technical education program
can receive, for a limited period of time, on-the-jab work experience in
participating enterprises. The SAVP scheme will be limited to first time
job seekers. The fund will cover 50 per cent of salary costs or the
apprenticeship wage, whichever is higher and the enterprise, if it so
chooses, can complement this stipend. Full details regarding the SAVP
scheme are included in Annex 3.5.
4.24      Prior to negotiations, Government identified candidates for the
post of Executive Secretary of the National Training Fund. At negotiations,
Government gave confirmation that it woulds award all funding from the NTF
according to criteria agreed with IDA, meet regularly with IDA to review
the criteria to be used to guide the funding of training sub-projects by
the NTF; and to update these criteria in the light of regular labor market
analysis. At negotiations, Government and IDA reviewed the initial criteria
to be used to award funding from the NTF to training sub-projects. These
criteria were adopted and will be incorporated in a side letter to the
credit agreement. Prior to credit effectiveness, Government will have
appointed the Executive Secretary of the NTF. Before the beginning of each
calendar year, Government and IDA will meet to agree on the criteria to be
used to guide the funding of training sub-projects by the NTF and to
examine the pipeline of sub-projects to be considered during the next year.
At the time of disbursement, Government will provide evidence to confirm
that the training sub-project(s) for which disbursement is being requested
was approved for funding by the NTF using the criteria already agreed
between the Government and IDA.
4.25      Project costs, budgetary implications and financial
sustainability, together with the phasing of the implementation of the
project components are detailed in the next chapter.



21
PART V. PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Project Cost and Cofinancing.
5.01      Total project costs over the four years of implementation are
estimated at US$ 15.7 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a
foreign exchange component of USS 9.5 million. Of this the Government will
contribute US$ 2.9 million, the European Community (EC) will contribute a
grant of US$ 3.7 million and the remaining US$ 9.2 million would be
financed by an IDA Credit. The European Community cofinancing will become
available during 1992 and be used to support the National Training Fund for
the financing of training sub-projects which have not yet been specified.
Pro3ect Cost Sumary
---------(US1 MillIon)--
I. Institutional Dovelont                 Locl     Foreign     Total
1. Strengthening MEiFl's Dtrectorates
DERP                            0.65      0.83       0.98
DET                             0.21      0.67       0.87
DAFPP                           0.06      0.16       0.21
DAC                             0.09      0.89       0.48
2. Labor Market Information System
OEF                             0.18      0.21       0.87
3. Monitoring tho VET Reform Program
Monitoring the Reform           0.16      0.08       0.18
Coordinating the project/PPF    0.00      0.61       0.51
Sub-Totel I                              1:5a)    W  i)      TM)
1I. Training of sector personnel In 'dual' VET
1. Manegemnt and Administrative Staff    0.00  0.41        0.41
2. Instructional Staff               0.00      0.46       0.45
Sub-Total II                            (0 .00)    TOM)      TO 87)
III. National Tr 7n;ns Fund
1. Creating the managerial structures
Management Comittee             0.02      0.00       0.02
Executive Secreteriat           0.23      0.18       0.41
2. Fundinin Training Activities
VET reform sub projects         1.65      2.84       8.89
SAVP                            0.24      0.00       0.24
Other non speciflid sub projects    1.62  2.86       3.88
Sub-Total III                           (8.65)    (4.88)     (854B)
e      w==e        m_
Total Base Costa                          4.86       8.04      12.90
Physical Contingencis                    0.87      0.68       1.06
Price Contingencies                      0.98      0.81       1.76
Tota Projcet Cost                          6.21      9.52      1C.78
5.02      The total project costs are derived from base cost estimates
expressed in 1990 prices. The costs of overseas and domestic training and
the cost of foreign and local consultants were based on current standards
applicable in Togo. The cost of incremental project staff were also based
on current estimates during appraisal. Total contingencies of US$ 2.8
million represent 22 per cent of base costs. Physical and price
contingencies were based on total project expenditures. Physical
contingencies (US$1.1 million) represent 8 per cent of base costs. Price
contingencies (US$1.8 million) represent 14 per cent of base costs, and
were estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and expected
annual inflation rates as follows:



22
199       1991      1992       1993
Foreign        3.0        3.0       as  3       .9 .
LocOl          0.0        6.0       6.0        6.0
5.03      Recurrent Cost implications and financial sustainability:
Overall resources available to the subsector will increase significantly
during project implementation. This increase will come from two main
sources: the vocational training tax and external donor financing. The
addition of the proceeds from the vocational training tax is expected to
increase overall resources available for the subsector by 302. This
increase is justified by the severe under-investment in VET in Togo over
the last few years. In 1984, technical education and vocational training
accounted for 3.62 of the total education budget. The creation of the METFP
unfortunately corresponded to the beginning of a period of economic crisis
and adjustment, and thus additional resources were never made available for
the planned reinforcement of this ministry. Consequently, by 1989, the same
proportion of the education budget (3.6Z) was still allocated to VET. This
represented a decrease in resources available for the subsector as the
education budget suffered a reduction of its proportion of the national
budget by 2? (from 22? to 20? of the budget). Thus the increase in
resources in part redresses the loss experienced over the last few years
and will support the implementation of longstanding Government policy to
emphasize and reinforce this subsector. Upon completion of the project and
disbursement of the credit, there will be a small reduction of resources
available for the funding of sub-projects in the VET sector. However, with
the employment of graduates from training sub-projects which were supported
by the NTF, the proceeds from the vocational training tax will gradually
increase thereby leading to a sustainable VET system.
5.04      Through the project, a number of efficiency gains will be
produced. First, replacing the academically oriented examination system by
one focussed on skill acquisition should have a significant impact on
repetition rates. The professionalization of training programs will bring
greater concordance between training content and testing and thus will also
contribute to decrease in repetition. Finally, a number of criteria for
the funding of training activities through the NTF favor sub-projects which
control costs. For example, sub-projects which maintain unit hourly costs
of instruction within a certain range are at an advantage. So are sub-
projects which have been able to secure co-financing. The use of the
competitive National Training Fund will therefore promote both quality
control of training and cost efficiency improvements thereby contributing
to more efficient use of resources.
B. Project Implementation.
1.   Preparation, Management and Implementation.
5.05      Status of Preparation.  Preparation was funded with a PPF. This
covered the costs of consultants who undertook a detailed survey of
technical and vocational training and prepared the Government's formal
request to IDA. Implementation plans and schedules for each component have
been prepared. Details of the institutional development of the METFP have



23
been finalized. Contacts for the training of managerial, administrative and
instructor staff in the dual approach to technical and vocational training
have been made. Legal texts governing the management, operation and
internal organization of the NTF's management committee and Executive
Secretariat were discussed with the appraisal mission and subsequently
finalized. An initial set of criteria for the selection of training
projects was discussed and agreed with Government at the time of appraisal.
A pipeline of sub-projects to be presented to the NTF for financing was
examined in detail by the appraisal mission. Full details of the civil
works, equipment and other inputs needed to convert the ex.isting CETs to
Regional Training Centers have been costed and detailed in the sub-projects
which are to be considered by the NTF. Details are given in Annex 3.5.
5.06      Project Management. The credit would not create a project
implementation unit, but would integrate the management of the project into
the METFP. The regu'ar daily management and administration of specific sub-
components will be the responsibility of the particular Directorate of the
METFP (or the Executive Secretary of the National Training Fund) in which
natural custody of the sub-component falls. To ensure efficient, well
coordinated implementation of project activities, the credit makes pro-
vision for a Project Coordinator, and continuing financing of a credit
accountant (previously funded under the PPF), both attached to METFP's
Cabinet. The coordinator will answer directly to the Minister and will work
with all Directorates of METFP and the Executive Secretary of the NTP. The
coordinator will supervise the use of proper procurement procedures, over-
see project accounts, coordinate withdrawal applications with the Ministry
of Planning, and arrange for regular auditing of the project. The credit
will provide short-term consulting services to audit project accounts.
5.07      Pro3ect Implementation and Sequencing. Full details on the
implementation calendar of individual components are provided in the
detailed cost tables in the Annexes 3.1 through 3.7. The overall summary of
project implementation may be seen in the second table of the project costs
(Annex 3.7). Project implementation has been phased so as to avoid
unnecessary complexity and overstressing the administrative capacity of
Government. The first phase of the project (1990-1991) contains three major
actions: senior VET administrator and managerial staff training;
institutional strengthening of the directorates of the METFP; and creation
of the feedback mechanisms (DERP and OEF). The second phase of the project
(1991-1992) will undertake instructor staff training; and create the NTF
administrative structures. The third phase of project implementation (1992-
1994) covers the effective financing of the reform of existing technical
training establishments through the sub-projects already included in the
NTF funding pipeline and will use the results from the feedback mechanism
to adjust funding criteria. This final phase of the project will allow fine
tuning of administrative procedures in the light of the experience gained
during the first three years, revision of the NT? funding criteria in the
light of feedback; and, in conjunction with the European Community grant,
NTF funding of currently unspecified training sub-projects.



24
2.   Procurement
5.08      Procurement. The following table summarizes the procurement
arrangements:
Procurement method*
- -    ---------   O FUm         o0 n.)…----- - - ---------
Procurement element   ICa         LCB         Other        N/A        Tot l
Civil Works           0.8         1.6                       --         2.4
(0-6)       (1.0)         -           --         (1.6)
Furniture             0.1         0.2                       --         0.8
(0 1)       (0 1)         --                    (0.2)
Equipment             1.8         1.1          0.0                     2.4
(1.B)       (0.9)        (0.0)        --         (2.2)
of which vehicles  0.8       0.0                       --         0.8
(0.8)       (0.0)         --          --         (0.8)
Teaching Materials    0.1         0.1          0.8          --         0.8
(0.1)       (0.1)        (0.0)        __         (0.2)
Consultant Services   --                       2.8          --         2.8
__ __                   (1.9)                   (1.9)
Training Costs        --                       2.6          --         2.6
__          --          (0.8)         -         (0.8)
Fellowships           --                                   1.6         1.6
-            -         (1.6)       (1.6)
Operating cost                    --            --         2.4         2.4
__          __           _-         t (0.7)     (0.7)
PPF Refinancing                    -            -          0.6         0.6
__          __            --        (0.A6       (0.6)
TOTAL                 2.8         8.0           S.9        4.5        16.7
TOTAL FINANCED BY IDA   2.1       2.1           2.2        2.8         9.2
Note: Figures in parentheses show the respectiv* amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
5.09      The relatively small civil works program would be scattered
geographically among more than a dozen different sites and is not suitable
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Thus, with the exception of
the construction of a new RTC in the maritime region for which ICB would be
used, civil works would be procured using Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. Contracts
for goods and civil works valued below US$50,000 may be procured through
local shopping; the aggregate value would not exceed US$250,000. Contracts
for goods exceeding US$250,000 would be procured through ICB, but those
below US$250,000 and above US$50,000 would be procured under LCB; the
aggregate value for LCB would not exceed US$2.2 million. Local shopping for
contracts less than US$50,000 would be on the basis of three reputable
suppliers. To the extent possible, procurement would be grouped to allow
for ICB. All procurement decisions in excess of US$250,000 would be
submitted to IDA for prior review. Technical assistance and consultants
financed by IDA would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Procurement arrangements are summarized above; all figures include
contingencies.
3.   Disbursements, Special Account, Accounts and Audits
5.10      Disbursements. The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over
seven years. This period takes into account the standard disbursement
profile for Togo and possible slippage in project implementation. IDA's
contribution to the operating costs and personnel would be on a declining
basis, allowing Government to build up its post project funding responsib-



25
ilities. The funds supporting the NTF would be disbursed against specific
categories of expenditure as contained in the credit agreement, not against
the Fund itself. Disbursements would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for all operating costs and all contracts equivalent to
less than US$100,000. Documentation of SOEs would be held for annual review
in semi-annual audits. The disbursement categories would be as follows:
Al location and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(in USS million*)
Catesory                                 Amounts        Parcentaos of exDenditures
to De inanced
1. Civil Works                             0.1            70
2. Furnituro                               0.1            90
3. Equipnt                                 0.4           100
4. Consultant Services                     1.3           100
6. Fellowships                             1.3           100
6. Operating Costs/Personnel               0.6            SOX in 1990 and 1991;
OOX in 1992; 40X in
1993; and 20X In 1994.
7. Goods, Services A Works financed under Grants 8.7      80
S. PPF Refinancing                         0.6           100
9. Una I I ocated                          1.1
TOTAL                                  0.2
5.11      Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, US$600,000
equivalent, denominated in CFA, will be advanced from the IDA Credit and
deposited in a Special Account. This amount is estimated to cover about
three months of project expenditures. The Special Account would be held in
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The account will be managed jointly by at least two of the
following staff: the Project Coordinator or the National Training Fund
Executive Secretary, and the METFP Minister or the METFP Director of the
Cabinet. Replenishment applications for the Special Account will be
aggregated in packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent and be supported
by a statement of account movements since the last application, with the
balance certified by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation of
transactions showing the original balance less payments awaiting
reimbursements or small working advances. Should any disbursements made
from the Special Account be subsequently disallowed by IDA, the Government
will redeposit the corresponding amount to the Special Account. Given the
availability of the Special Account, the minimum application for direct
payments will normally be for the equivalent of US$30,000.
5.12      Accounts and Audits.  The Project Coordinator, assisted by an
accountant, will maintain separate accounts for the IDA Credit, other donor
funds and Government counterpart financing. These accounts will be further
subdivided into expenditures incurred for each component and within each
component by credit disbursement categories. During Negotiations, the
Government will give assurances that: (a) all project accounts will be
audited annually and all disbursements made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) and against the NTF will be audited semi-annually by an
independent auditor, acceptable to IDA; (b) the Government will submit to
IDA annual audit reports for all accounts by April 30 of each year
beginning in 1991, and the audit reports for the SOE account and the NTF by
September 31 and April 30 of each year, beginning in 1991; (c) the audit
reports will certify that the funds were used for the purposes for which
they were provided, especially as regards the criteria to be used for the
disbursement against the NTF.



26
4.   Monitoring and Reporting
5.13      The Project Unit will submit : (i) semi-annual reports to IDA on
project implementation and expenditures by June 30 and December 31 of each
year, beginning in 1991; (ii) an annual report of the NTF activities by
April 30 each year; (iii) special reports and studies as agreed upon during
Negotiations; and (iv) a completion report within six months of the IDA
Credit Closing Date.
Part VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS.
6.01      Benefits.  The first benefit of the project is institutional. In
the short term, the project will strengthen the key strategic functions of
the METFP, put in place operating procedures needed for the NTF and
associate the private sector in VET training activities. The procedures for
the allocation and use of public funds will improve and the Government will
be better able to administer the VET system. In the long-term, direct
association of the private sector in the selection and operation of the
training activities will establish automatic regulation of the system
improving its responsiveness to the needs of the economy. At the closure of
the credit, a process for the allocation of funds to training activities
will have been put in place and the necessary feedback mechanisms to adjust
funding to the labor market will have been developed and refined.
6.02      The second benefit is economic. It will come in the form of
improved graduates from VET programs. The quality and relevance of training
dispensed in VET will improve and the graduates of the revised system will
be directly employable and more productive. The project will permit an
annual output of between 500 and 1000 trained and skilled workers ready for
immediate employment in pre-identified posts. This will reduce the level of
skilled graduate unemployment and raise the productivity of the workforce,
thereby contributing to private enterprise competitiveness.
6.03      The third benefit is also economic; through the project, a
number of efficiency gains will be produced. First, replacing the
academically oriented examination system by one focussed on skill
acquisition should have a significant impact on repetition rates. Second,
the adoption of the dual approach to training will bring greater
concordance between training content and testing and thus will also
contribute to decrease in repetition. The dual method of training with its
work experience and practical attachments to industry will also free-up
training places allowing more efficient use of existing facilities and an
increase in the number of in-service trainees. Finally, a number of the NTP
criteria for funding training activities favor sub-projects which control
costs. The use of competitive funds will therefore promote both quality
control of training and cost efficiency improvements thereby contributing
to more efficient use of resources. Efficient resource allocation, combined
with better management, will reinforce, at the sector level, the
Government's structural adjustment program.



27
6.04      Risks. The main risks concern: ti) the Government's willingness
to allocate funds for VET through the competitive NTF rather than through
annual budgetary allocations; (ii) possible reluctance on the part of the
private sector to play an active role in training of the workforce; and
(iii) the limited capacity of the METFP to manage the implementation of a
project of this nature. The first risk has been addressed during project
preparation; Government approved the necessary legal documents setting up
the NTF and allocating the proceeds of training tax to it. To ensure that
this will be implemented, a specific condition on the allocation of funds
to the NTF has been attached to this credit. Resource allocation will also
be addressed through the regular annual reviews of public expenditures and
public investments which are due to take place for this sector in the
framework of the macroeconomic adjustment program. The second risk was also
addressed during project preparation. At that time, the private sector was
fully consulted and played an active role in the preparation and design of
the projects now in the pipeline awaiting NTF financing approval. In
addition, METFP is preparing a guide for employers interested in using the
NTF and will run a national publicity campaign. Finally, in the light of
the innovative nature of the financing mechanisms proposed, the
implementation of the project has been staggered to minimize the burden on
the institutions involved in the VET system. The institutional changes will
further be reinforced through a public information campaign, increased
participation of the private sector, availability of short-term consultant
services in specialized training issues, such as the needs of the urban
informal sector, and training programs for the national team in charge of
the project, both in-service and overseas.
Part VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Prior to Negotiations, the Government identified candidates for
the posts of: (i) Director of the DERP; (ii) Project Coordinator; and (iii)
Executive Secretary of the National Training Fund (para.4.13).
7.02      At negotiations, Government provided IDA with details on the
content of the training courses for the senior VET administrators-
managerial staff and VET instructors (para.4.17). Government also gave
assurances that it would: (a) allocate the proceeds of the vocational
training tax to training activities via the NTF; (b) award all funding trom
the NTF according to criteria agreed with IDA; (c) meet regularly with IDA
to review the criteria to be used to guide the funding of training sub-
projects by the NTF; and (d) update these criteria in the light of regular
labor market analysis (para.4.24).
7.03      Prior to credit effectiveness, Government will have appointed
candidates to the posts of: (i) Director of the DERP; (ii) Project
Coordinator; and (iii) Executive Secretary of the NTF (para.4.13). It will
also send to IDA for information the list of senior VET administrators-
managerial staff and VET instructors selected for the training courses
(para.4.17). Government will also have provided evidence to IDA of the
creation of, and the deposit of the sum of CFAF 100 million into, a
national counterpart project account to cover the first semester of its
contribution to the project costs (para.5.0l).



28
7.04      The Government will also agree to the following dated covenants:
(a) By the beginning of academic year 1990/91, METFP's DAC will have
assumed all responsibilities regarding management of personnel,
preparation and monitoring of recurrent expenditure budgets, and
investment in the training establishments administered by METFP
(para.4.05);
(b) Before the end of calendar 1990, Government will have sent to
IDA: (i) the guide informing interested parties how to solicit
NTF financing for training services which respond to labor
market needs (paras.4.13 and 4.20); and (ii) the results of the
study on the informal sector (para.4.08);
(c) By mid-February 1991, Government would present to IDA a
methodology satisfactory to the Association, for analyzing the
employment of graduates of technical education and vocational
training (paras.4.08, 4.09 and 4.13);
(d)  By mid-1992, G-overnment would provide to IDA the results of an
analysis of the employment of training graduates of the academic
year 1990/91 (paras.4.08, 4.09 and 4.13);
(e)  By mid-1993, Government would publish and make widely available
the results of an analysis of the employment of training
graduates of the academic year 1991/92 (paras.4.08, 4.09 and
4.13);
(f) By the end of academic year 1991/92, Government will have
established trade certification testing to replace the CAP
(para.4.05); and
(g)  By the end of academic year 1992/93, Government will have merged
the DET and DAFPP into a single Directorate (para.4.05).
7.05      Continued disbursement of the credit would be conditional upon:
agreement each year between the Government and IDA on the criteria to be
used to guide the funding of training sub-projects by the NTF; and a
meeting to examine the pipeline of sub-projects to be considered during the
coming year (para.4.19). At the time of submission of disbursement requests
to IDA, Government will provide evidence to confirm that the NTF funding of
training sub-project(s), for which disbursement is being requested, was
approved using the criteria already agreed between Government and IDA
(para.4.19 and 4.24).
7.06      The Government will also give the usual assurances that it will:
(a) implement the project along the arrangements and schedules
agreed upon during project preparation;
(b) apply the IDA procurement procedures as agreed;
(c) make the usual arrangements for accounting, and auditing of the
project accounts; including audits of the SOEs, the Credit
Special Account, the national counterpart project account and
the National Training Fund;
(d) provide IDA with regular progress reports as agreed during
negotiations and provide a project completion report upon
closure of the credit.
-____  -   -----



- 29 -
Annex 1.1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total area (thousands of square kilometers) .................................  57
Per Capita Income (GDP)            ................................. US$370
Total population (1989) ...................................               3.6 millions
Urban population as percent of total pop. .................................. 30%
Average annual population growth rate ................................. 3.1%
Population density per kilometer         .................................  60
Life expectancy .         .................................  53 years
Infant Mortality (per thousand life births) ........................         ..... 93.7
Age structure of population
0 - 9 years ................................. 35%
10 - 29 years .................................. 38%
30 - 64 years .....          ....................... ..... 22%
over 64 years ................................. 3%
Percent of age group enrolled in education (gross enrolment ratios):
Primary ................................. 102%
Secondary ................................. 21%
Tertiary ................................. 1.8%
Literates as % of adult population ............         ..................... 41%
Total labor force (in millions) ..........          .......................  1.44
Formal and informal rural sectors .................................          73%
Informal urban sector .................................. 21%
Formal urban sector .................................                        6%



- 30 -
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PRJECT
GLOBAL EMPLOYMENT PATTERNS & DETAILS OF INDUSTRIAL.
INFOURAL 8 RURAL SECTOR EMPLUYMENT
Table 1
Employment in the Modern Sector
Sector            1985           %               1989
Government               4T750          5Z%             3WPUO           45.2%
(Civil servants)       (20,000)        (25%)           (23,000)        (30.3%)
Under contract)        (21,600)       (27%)           (11,300)        (14.9%)
Parastatals              13,600         17%             14,000          18.4%
Mixed                    4,800           6%              5,000           6.6%
Private                 20,000          25%             22,700          29.9%
-80,000        IDOO-           -76,000100.0-
1.             The distribution of employment by sector of activity is as follows: agriculture - 7.9
per cent; industry - 13.2 per cent; construction - 7.9 per cent; commerce - 11. per cent; and
services - 59.2 per cent.
2.             The agricultural and informal sectors have been and will continue to be the largest
sources of employment in the economy. The informal sector employs a dynamic 20 per cent of the
Togolese labor force, providing an estimated 280,000 people with jobs in 210,000 informal operations
in 1984. Informal sector operation are heavily concentrated in rural areas (72 per cent), but are
also strong in the capital (21 per cent). On a per capita basis, however, the number of informal
operations in the capital is more numerous with almost three informal sector operations for every
four households. Rural areas average slightly above 1 informal activity for every 2 households.
Commerce is by far the most important activity in the infonmal sector, accounting for 83 per cent
of informal operations in Lomb and 74 per cent in rural areas. Most foodstuffs are sold through the
informal market and studies have estimated that 67 per cent of imported goods end up being sold on
the informal market after passing through import/export houses.
3.              Emplovment Supply and Demand Patterns.  Rough estimates of employment demands in the
modern sector by level and type of education show the results summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2
Emol wment Demand in the Modern Sector
t-Znnual Averaue. 1988-1992)
University     High.Tech.      Technician      CAP             Total
Degree         BTS             BT+T.Bacc.
Industrial              55             75               50 l          X
Commercial               75            40              150              90            355
General Educ.           100            15              495              45             655
Total                  230             f30             795             40             lo
4.              These estimates are only indicative of orders of magnitude and are based on the
following assumptions: (i) stagnation of employment in the public sector continues but there is a
quality improvement  as observed in recent years, through upgrading staff of Grade C personnel
towards Grades B anR A; (ii) increase of employment in the parastatal enterprises continues; (iii)
there is considerable increase of employment in mixed and private enterprises (iv) enterprises
progressively recruit staff suitable for the job profiles of available posts; and Iv) attrition rates
are the same as those observed in recent years  that is: (in per cent per annum):  egree holders 0.5;
higher technicians, 0.5; skilled workers, 1.1; and unskilled workers, 2.5.



- 31 -
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 2
5.             Table 3 below summarizes the likely annual total manpower supply and demand pattern
in the modern sector for industrial graduates.
Table 3
Annual Technical Manowwer       y u a   Demand Pattern in
the Moern Sector
(1988-199Z)
University             BTS             BT&T.Bacc.      CAP
Degree
Supply/Demand          s75             SD
Industgial     207557   -                775.           5715W          MO72./360
Com.  /        270/75                  10/40           180/150         570 4190
Excludig .p.catatel  in  rkicultur.
2/ In additon. tr are 400 CFA graduate every year. mt a then remining in the non-forul ector.
3/ uncluding mna.u.nt.
4/ ,,,ding g.



- 32 -
Annex 2.2
Page I of 3
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE TRAINING SYSTEM
1.              Structure and Administration. Prior to 1984, technical education (technical colleges
and technical lycees) was under the Ministry of Education while vocational training (mainly a
rudimentary apprenticeship scheme) was under the Ministry of Labor.   In September 1984, the
Government, in an effort to promote skills formation, created the Ministry of Technical Education
and Vocational Training (Ministare de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle
METFP) which has responsibility for both technical education and vocational training. The Ministry
of Rural Development (Minist4re du D6veloppement Rural - MDR) however continues to be in charge of
agricultural education and some other technical ministries and agencies continue to operate
specialized training institutions. In July 1986, the Government created the Higher Council of
Vocational Training (Conseil Sup6rieur de la Formation Professionnelle), a consultative body
including all ministries and pubTic institutioos directly or indirectly involved with t.aining as
well as representatives from the private sector'. The Organizational Chart of the Ministry is given
in Annex 2.3.
2.              Technical Education.  Technical education, in its broader sense  comprises formal
education in TeiTnTca  l   ege (CET) programs (lower secondary education)  the Technical Lyc4e
programs (LT) (upper secondary education) and a number of other upper secondary (post-BEPC), post
secondary (post- accalaur6at) and degree programs run by specialized institutions and the Universit6
du B6nin.
3.              At the lower secondary level there are six public CETs in the country (including the
CET section of the Technical Lyc6e of SokodQ) and nine private establishments which run programs at
CET and LT levels. The entrance examination for the CET programs can be taken after nine years of
education (primary * first three years of lower secondary). The programs last three years and lead
to a Skilled Worker Certificate (CAP) in a number of industrial trades and secretarial and accounting
skills.
4.              At the upper secondary level there are only two public LTs, one in Lom and one in
Sokod4. The LT programs are designed for graduates of the lower secondary cycle (four years lower
secondary + BEPC) selected on the basis of entrance examinations. There are three types of programs
at this level: (i) three year programs leading to a technical Baccalaur6at in either
mathematics/technology, industry or commerce; (ii) two to three year programs in the commercial field
leading to a Diploma in secretarial, typing, correspondence or accounting (Brevet d'Enseignement
Professionnel); and (iii) three year programs of a practical nature in the industrial field leading
to a Technician Diploma (Brevet de Technicien).
5.              In addition to the above, four other specialized institutions run programs at the
technician level for specific civil service needs. These are the School of Midwifery and Nursing
under the University; the National School of Administration (ENA) under the Ministry of Labor and
Civil Services; and the National Agricultural Institute (INFA) and the Agricultural Training Center
under the Ministry of Rural Development.
6.              At the post-secondary level (Brevet de Technicien Sup6rieur or equivalent), there are
programs in the industrial, agricultural, paramedical and commercial fields run by the University
(some jointly with METFP), the Ministry of Labor and Civil Service and the Ministry of Rural
Development.   Finally,   at  the  degree   level,   there  are  engineering,   agricultural   and
economic/management programs run by the University and a program in architecture and urban planning
run by a regional institution. A profile of technical and vocational education is Given in Annex
2.4
7.              Vocational Training. Vocational training covers both formal and non-formal education
and comprises (i) the existing apprenticeship training scheme; (ii) in-service or upgrading training
programs under the METFP; and (iii) a variety of other training activities outside the formal
1 The council is presided by the Minister of Technical Education and Vocational Training with
Ministers of Education and Labor as vice-presidents and includes 30 additional members of
which 9 represent several ministries, 5 represent employers (including parastatal entities)
and 5 represent employees. A permanent technical committee composed of 11 members serves
as the Council's secretariat.



- 33 -
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 3
education system run by other ministries or public and private agencies. Annex 2.4 also provides the
details on programs, enrollments and structure of vocational training.
8.             A  renticeshi  is the most important training activ;ty taking place in the country
at the skilled-worker level and is the main vehicle of skills acquisition in the informal sector:
it has been estimated that about 80% of apprentices are following the traditional unregulated path
in the traditional informal sector, learning from the "master". Major trades registered by
apprentices include: carpentry/cabinet-making, mechanics (auto, motorcycle, bicycle), dress making,
hairdressing and repair of electrical domestic equipment. The educational level of apprentices varies
widely from illiteracy to completion of the eighth grade of the education system (primary + two years
lower secondary) and, in some cases, higher.  The age of entry also varies but shows an upward
trend. At present, the majority of entrants are over 15 but there are many between 12 and 15.
Apprenticeship starts with a three-month period of observation (pre-apprenticeship) after which a
contract is signed between the apprentice and the "master"  stipulating the obligations of the
apprentice and the commitment of the "master" to teach the apprentice the trade within a determined
period (3 or 4 years in most cases). At the end of the training, the "master" issues a certificate
attesting that the apprentice has completed the training. METFP, in an attempt to "officialize" the
apprenticeship certificate, introduced in 1986 the "Certificate of Completion of Apprenticeship"
(Certificat du Fin d'Apprentissage - CFA), a trade test which, for industrial trades is organized
and run by the DAFP. Two professional trade organizations (tailors and hairdressers) run their own
tests.
9.             The METFP places particular importance on apprenticeship as a mode of training as it
is emplover supported, tightly geared to job requirements, and promotes the self-employment process.
Given the present inefficient state of the apprenticeship training process, METFP is attempting to
organize and exercise some control on the various activities currently taking place by starting with
a revision of the apprenticeship training law which has not been entorced.
10.            The recent apprenticeship law (88-16) modifies the past regulations (83-20). It
provides a general  framework within which the Minister of Technical/Vocational  Education is
authorized to work out by decrees the details.  Among others, this law officially transfers the
responsibility for apprenticeship from the Ministry of Labor to the METFP and stipulates that: (i)
minimum age for entering apprenticeship is 15; (ii) the contract shall be signed between the master,
the apprentice and his parent or guardian; (iii) the master is obliged to provide social security
and work-accident insurance for his apprentices, to respect the hours of work (maximum 40 per week
including release for tuition in a training center), grant annual leave according to rules to be
decreed by the Minister of Technical/Vocational Education, and present his apprentices at the end
of the training period stipulated in the contract for CAP or CFA examination; and (iv) the duration
of apprenticeship and the fees for each trade will be fixed by ministerial decree, which is currently
under study.
11.            UPRrading Traininq - The CNPP2  The CNPP in Lom6 is a semi-autonomous institution
established in 1964 under the auspices of the Ministry of Labor with IL0 assistance.   Supreme
authority for the Center was the governing body composed of representatives  (4 each) ot the
Government, enmployers and employees. With the creation of METFP, the CNPP was transferred from this
Ministry and its governing body ceased functioning.  The main objective of the Center is to upgrade
workers on the job but so far very little is done in this respect, evidently, because of poor links
with industry and staff weaknesses. To make use of the available capacity, the Center started in
1979, providing supplementary or initial training for apprentices (three-year program) but in i986
stopped receiving new trainees. !n December 1988, there were 145 apprentices in the Center (all in
their third year)  and eight workers for upgrading.   Also there is a production/service unit
functioning mainly for car repairs) staffed by some 30 workers paid directly by the Center but this
unit is far from being self-sustained.
12.             CNPP has a total capacity of some 60 training places and it is equipped to provide
training in sheet metal work; automechanics; general and maintenance mechanics; electricity; and
auto body repairs/Dainting. The premises are now being extended to include workshops for automation
and refrigeration/air conditioning. The Center has a branch in Kara which is equipped for onlY
automechanics.   This branch will continue to train apprentices.   Enrollment in 1988 was 35
apprentices.   With regard to staffing,  there are 20 instructors all with CAP or Technical
Baccalaureat but with considerable practical experience. Most of them also have been abroad (mainly
Germany) for upgrading training. The non-teaching staff includes 38 persons (15 in administration,
3 foremen, 20 workers) plus the 30 workers of the production unit mentioned in the preceding
paragraph.  The budget of the CNPP comes mainly from METFP transfers and it is handled by the
2 Centre National de Perfectionnement Professionnel (National Center for Vocational Upgrading).



- 34 -
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 3
director. Recurrent budget in 1988 was FCFA 134 million of which 72 million were spent on salaries.
Income from production activities amounted to some FCFA 19 million in 1988.
13.            There are a number of vocational training programs under the Ministry of Rural
Development  (MDR),  some  purely  agricultural,  others  encompassing  non-agricultural  training
activities.   Among the latter programs, the most important are those run by the Rural Socio-
Educational Centers (Centres Ruraux d'Activit6s Socio-Educatives - CRASE) and by the Rural Family
Hones (Maisons Familiales Rurales - MFR). The CRASE program, which lasts from one to three years,
aims at equipping young agriculturalists with the necessary knowledge to install themselves in groups
in their area of origin. Reportedly, this program has not been very successful so far because of
inadequate incentives and lack of means for installation. The NFR program is open to all family
members and includes two to three weeks training in the center followed-by two to three months of
practical application. There are about 20 MFRs functioning, some with the support of religious or
other non-governmental organizations. MDR also runs a small training center for work in Notse. The
network of CRASEs and MFRs provides a sound framework for future joint MDR and NETFP interventions.
14.            There is also a large number of private vocational training centers, particularly in
the tertiary sector. This private vocational training is mainly geared towards the commerce and
services sectors. It is developing steadily (some 2400 training places were available in 1987-88)
but not fast enough to meet the growing need for qualified manpower and the social demand from young
.eople seeking jobs. Private vocational training is regulated by the METFP in June 1987 and by the
decree of October 18, 1987, setting the rules and regulations for private technical school
regulations.  this needs to be revised to provide more flexibility and appropriate incentives for
potential private investors. Only 15 training institutions are officially recognized by HETFP and
have permanent licenses to operate while there exist a backlog of over 25 requests to open a private
vocational training establishment awaiting authorization. Licenses can be granted for only one year
and can be extended for another five years if performance is satisfactory before deciding upon a
permanent licence.



- 35 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of I
T0GO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF METFP
IL
S.
0
c~~~~~ja
0 ~                                                              i
OE~~                 *0



- 36 -
Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 4
TOGO
TECHNICAL ANO VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROFILE OF THE TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM
1.              Enrollment Trends and Output for the Several Proarams. Total enrollments in
technical col1eges and lyc6es in the pubic sector dropped from 4,484 in 1980/81 to 3 790 in
1987/88 while those in the private sector remained practically constant (around 2,4001 during the
same period. The major drop was in the public technical baccalaureat programs. As a percentage
of total school enrollments at this level (2nd and 3rd de ree), they remained practically
constant between 1980/81 and 1986/87 (6.5 per cent as against 6.3 per cent respectively) but
drotped drastically as compared to 1975/76 (9.5 per cent). Female participation is much higher
in the private sector, evidently because of a large number of secretarial based programs which
are frequented by female participants, and shows an upward trend in contrast with that in the
public sector (Table 1 below).
Table 1
Female Participation in Technical Programs
Public  ~   (in %)
Public          (in %) Private                 Total
1980/81        T157F                    43.2                   2 M. 
1986/87          11.2                   48.3                   26.6
2.              The output of the system suffers from high repetition and drop-out rates.  In the
third year of public schools, for instance, repetition rates average: 17.5 per cent for CAP; 46.2
per cent for BEP; 31.3 per cent for industrial Baccalaureat; and 21.7 per cent for commercial
Baccalaureat. The corresponding rates for the private sector are somewhat lower. Drop-out rates
in public schools are also important particularly in the baccalaureat programs  where the gross
output is estimated at only 15-20 per cent of the corresponding intake. Finally, the examination
results are poor with (in 1987/88) a maximum pass rate of 54.7 per cent in industrial CAP and a
minimum of 5.1 per cent in commercial BEP (technician certificate). Table 2 below summarizes the
progress of an average cohort and output for the several programs.
Table 2
Averaae Cohort Progress and Output bv Program in Public Institutions
Prouram                 1st Year        2nd Year       3rd Year                Graduates
CAP Com.                    TOT6                              5                      N
CAP Ind.                     100             90              85                      80
BEP Com.                     100              55             70                      30
Bac. Com.                    100             70              40                      20
Bac. Ind.                    100             75              40                      15
3.              In the private sector internal efficiency also varies with the program and
averages: 15 per cent for the commercial Baccalaur6at  37 per cent for the commercial CAP and 52
per cent for the commercial BEP.  In the apprenticeship (CFA) examinations the pass rate is
around 40 per cent (Table 3 below).
Table 3
Results ofrCFA-Examinations
Number                 Number                          Trades
Year            Presented               Passed         % Passed         Covered
TM7                 1149 73                                  43         18
1988               1080                     380              35         15
4.              Teaching and Non-teaching Staff.  The total number of teachers in technical
schools in December 1988 was z2z in pubiic schools (176 for technical and 76 for general
subjects) and 123 in private schools. This gives an average student/teacher ratio of 16.8 (15.0
in public schools and 19.8 in private schools). These ratios however vary widely with the school
with a minimum of 5.7 in the Arts and Crafts College of Kpalim6 and a maximum of 20.8 in the
Eyadema Technical Lyce& of Lom6. Of the total, 11.5 per cent of teachers are expatriates (mainly
French and German technical assistance), 65.5 per cent permanent staff and 23.0 per cent
temporary (vacataires) hired usually for the teaching of general subjects.
5.              Qualifications of the teaching staff varies widely as summarized in Table 4 below,
which has been produced on the basis of an enquiry carried out by the Directorate of Technical



- 37 -
Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 4
Education in 1988.
Table 4
Teachina Staff Qualifications in Public Technical Schools
(in % of totals)
Staff Category                                                Programs               Total
Nationals      Expatriates             Qualifications         Indust./Comm.
34.6           83.9                    University degree       9.3      54.8         41.8
25.8           6.4                     Higher technician      19.3      26.9         23.0
diploma (BTS)
31.9           9.7                     Techn. Bacc. or        38.6      18.3         28.6
equivalent
7.7            -                       Vocational             12.8      -             6.6
traininj certif.
CAP/CFA
Ioo.0          100.0                                          10U.0   100.o          0
- Iormally with some additional training.
It should also be noted that among the degree holders in industrial programs few have technical
qualifications.In vocational training programs, most of the instructors possess a CAP/CFA
certificate supplemented in certain cases with some pedagogical training.Little is known of
teachers'qualifications in the private sector. Information available shows that in commercial
programs some 40 per cent possess a university and 37 per cent a Higher Technical Diploma or
equivalent.
6.             Non-teaching staff in technical schools includes the administrative and the
services staff. The number of non-teaching staff in 1988 was 118 (54 in administration and 64 in
services). This gives a ratio of student/non-teaching staff equal to 32.1 and a ratio of
student/total staff equal to 10..
7.             Financing of the Training System.       Actual recurrent expenditures for the METFP
in 1988 amounted to FCFA 647.5 million (as against FCFA 532.7 million in 1987) of which FCFA
134.5 million were subventions to CNPP. In addition to Government's budget, there are other
minor sources of financing which toether (excluding foreign assistance) yielded some FCFA 52.2
million in 1987/88 as follows  in FFA):  (i) salaries of temporary staff paid directly by the
Treasury: 18.5 million; (ii) fees from students: 6.7 million; (iii) examination fees: 4.7
million; (iv) assistance to students: 20.0 million; and (v) special assistance to the Technical
Lyc6e in Lom (payment of electricity, water, etc.): 2.3 mil lion.
8.             An analysis of the expenditures shows that in 1988 some 67 per cent of the budget
was spent on salaries and 33 per cent on materials, services, maintenance and other (excluding
the subvention to CNPP). This proportion varies by directorate. The Directorate of Technical
Education for instance, spent 77.8 per cent of its budget on salaries and 22.2 per cent on other
items whiie the Directorate of Apprenticeship spent only 51.6 per cent of its budget on salaries
and 48.4 per cent on other items.
9.             School fees have been fixed  as of the school year 1987/88, at FCFA 3,600 for a
new student in the first year and FCFA 3 160 per year as deposit for teaching materials furnished
by the school and of the remaining FCFA i,600 per student, 35 per cent is retained by the
collecting institutions and 65 per cent goes to the METFP for specific purposes: 40 per cent for
quality improvement of technical/vocational education, 10 per cent for examination expenses and
travel for the Directorate of Technical Education, and 15 per cent for school inspection still to
be organized. In the years 1987/88, about 86 per cent of the fees were collected (total FCFA 11.8
million). Fees in private schools vary from FCFA 25,000 to FCFA 55,000 per annum.
10.            There is a scholarship system operated by the "Scholarship and Fellowship Service"
of the Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research (Minist&re de l'Education Nationale
et de la Recherche Scientifique - MENRS). Every student in technical colleges and lyc6es benefits
from this scholarship which amounts to only FCFA 10,000 per annum.
11.            caoital expeditures.  In 1988, capital expenditure for the METFP amounted to FCFA
340.6 million of whicn FCFA 190.5 million were committed by October 1988, and the remaining were



- 38 -
Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 4
programmed for 1989.  The projects to be financed include: rehabilitation and maintenance of
school/center premises, equipment, construction of an agricultural training center and of an
administrative wing for the HETfP  reinforcement of the Directorate of Common Affairs (DAC) and
counterpart funds for the UNDP/IL  projects of "support to technical education" and
"restructuring apprenticeship".  For the year 1989, the METFP solicited FCFA 685 million for its
various projects but only FCFA 320 million have been approved.
12.            External assistance.  Main sources are: France, the Federal Republic of Germany,
and UNDP with ILO at. executive agency. France at present provides 15 teachers or workshop
foremen and has approved a sum of tC-FA 150 million for equipment for the Eyadema Technical Lyc&e
in Lom6 to be disbursed in 1988 and 1989. The Federal Republic of Germany furnishes 14
volunteers as teachers/instructors  a complementary recurrent budget of some FCFA 19 million in
1988 and, via GTZ, some FCFA 100 million, for equipment for the Technical Lyc6e of Sokod&. GTZ
has also launched a project recently to train 30 instructors at post-secondary level in auto-
mechanics, electricity and metal work (10 each) using the CNPP and ENSI after providing the
necessary equipment and technical assistance.  Finally, UNDP finances two ILO projects: (i) a
pilot project for restructuring apprenticeship training. This project spreads over three years
(1987-89) and the UNDP contribution is US$428,500 with a Government involvement in kind
equivalent to FCFA 245.06 million- (ii) a project of "support to technical education" which also
spreads over three years (1988-911. UNDP contribution is US$814 400 and the counterpart
contribution FCFA 268 million equivalent. The main objectives of this project are: organization
of the Divisions of the Directorate of Technical Education; revision of all programs and
examination procedures; preparation of a school map and an equipment inventory with a re-
equipment plan; creation of upgrading training committees for each school; and training/upgrading
Of school teachers and administrators.
13.            Recurrent Unit Costs.  A detailed analysis of the 1989 expenditures of the
Technical Education Directorate (DET) gave the results summarized in Table 5 below.
Table S
SummarY of DET Recurrent Expenditures. 1989
(in FCFA UUU's)
Directorate            Technical       Technical       Total
Lyc6es         Colleges
Salaries               83,500                  156500122,700                    62,700
teachingi)            -                          §500)        (87700)
inon-teaching)         -                       (47,000)        (35,000)       -
Teachin                -                       8,000           8,300           16,300
materia s
Other                  52,600                  10,700          17,900          81,200
Total
expenditures           136,100                 175,200         148,900        460,200
This table suggests that the direct recurrent unit cost for technical l1c6es is of the order of
FCFA 64,900 per student per annum (enrollments, 2 700) and that for technical colleges FCFA
142,000 per student per annum (enrollments, 1 0481. These costs do not include the overhead
expenses of the directorate which, in 1989, absorbed some 30 per cent of the total recurrent
expenditures (Table 5 above), or other extrabudgetary resources (technical assistance, direct
payments from fees, etc.
14.            The considerably lower costs in technical lyc6es are due to economies of scale
(enrollment in two technical lyc6es 2,700, in six technical colleges 1,048) and in the
predominance of commercial programs in the lyc6es which require lower expenditures in teaching
materials, services and maintenance. Indeed expenditures on teaching materials correspond to 4.6
per cent of total expenditures in technical lyc6es and to 5.6 per cent of total expenditures in
technical colleges or in terms of expenditures per student to FCFA 2,960 (US$10 equivalent) and
FCFA 9,700 (US$26 equivalent) respectively. Dividing the total expenditures by the number of
students in both the technical lyc6es and the technical colleges, the conclusion can be drawn
that the average unit cost is of the order of FCFA 123,000 per student per annum which is about
two times higher than that of general education.
15.            Assuming that the overhead expenses are equally distributed between the technical



- 39 -
Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 4
lyc6es and the technical colleges, the total cost per student per annum can be roughly estimated
at FCFA 91,000 for technical lyc&es and at FCFA 205,000 for technical colleges. These
calculations do not include the extrabudgetary resources which are estimated at some FCFA 156
million.   Adding these expenditures to the rest the average per student cost rises from FCFA
123,000 to FCFA 165,000. Concerning the unit cost per graduate although such cost is reasonable
at the CAP level where output in industrial programs is 80 per cent of the corresponding input
there is only one commercial section in the Kant6 technical college with some 40 students), it
Is extremely high in technical lyc6es where the output is only 15 per cent of the corresponding
input in industrial programs and 20 per cent in commercial programs. Assuming that the recurrent
unit cost is roughly the same for each year of study (FCFA 205,000 for technical colleges and
FCFA 91,000 for technical lyc6es), the unit cost per graduate can be estimated at FCFA 450,000
per graduate of a technical college (assuming that all programs are industrial) and at FCFA 1.4
million for a technical lyc6e graduate (assuming an output of 20 per cent). The theoretical cost
per graduate is FCFA 615,000 and 273,000 per student per annum respectively.
16.            Costs in Private Technical Schools.  Private technical schools depend on school
fees for their operation although recognized schools receive substantial subventions from the
Government. Fees vary widely with the institution and the level of studies. Table 6 indicates
the variations by level.
Table 6
Fees in PrivatieTechnical Schools
(in FCFA per annum)
Minimum        Maximum         Average
CAP                    25, W           40,000 3D1DW
BEP                    25,000          55,000          40,000
Baccalaur6at           42,500          55,000          49,000
In 1987/88 there were some 700 students enrolled at the CAP level, 1,200 at the BEP level and 500
at the Baccalauriat level.  Assuming that each student paid the average fee as shown above, the
total sum collected from fees is of the order FCFA 96 million. In the same year, Government's
subvention was some FCFA 42 million.   With these data and the total number of students in
private schools (some 2,400 in 1987/88), the conclusion can be drawn that the average unit cost
per student per annum in private technical schools is of the order of FCFA 57,000.
17.            The problem of low efficiency is more serious in private than in public schools.
In private schools input/output ratios are as low as 36 per cent for commercial CAP, 52 per cent
for BEP and 15 per cent for Baccalaur4at. This low efficiency is the cause for high per graduate
costs and consequent waste in resources. Rough calculations how the per graduate costs can be as
high as (in FCFA): for commercial CAP 475,000; for commercial BPE 330,000 and for commercial
Baccalau.rsat 1,140,000.
18.            Costs in Vocational Education.  There is no data available to calculate with any
reasonable degree of precision the costs of vocational training. The apprenticeship fees vary
between FCFA 35,000 and FCFA 160,000 per apprenticeship and provide some insight of the costs in
this particular area.
19.            Vocational Training Tax.   Vocational training tax (or apprenticeship tax) is a
tax equivalent to one per cent ot salaries imposed on all employers except those in the civil
service and in non-profit public enterprises (electricity, water, etc.) Until December 1988,
this tax, together with other taxes totalling to six per cent of salaries, went directly to the
Government Treasury. However, a law voted in December 1988, transfers this tax to the METFP to
be used for training. The annual sum expected to be col';cted is estimated at some FCFA 300
million at present.  The METFP is now preparing the necessary decrees for the implementation of
the law and the management of the sum to be collected.



- 40 -
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 8
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR METFP
Restructurinq & Strengthening METFP
1.           Introduction. Prior to 1984, technical education (technical colleges and
technical lycees) was the under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education while
vocational training (mainly a rudimentary apprenticeship scheme) was under the Ministry of
Labor. In September 1984  the Government, in an effort to promote skills formation, created
the Ministry of Technicai Education and Vocational Training (Ministere de l'Enseignement
Technique et de la Formation Professionelle - METFP) which has responsibility both for
technical education and vocational training. The Ministry of Rural Development (Ministire du
D46veloppement Rural - MDR) however, continues to be in charge of agricultural education and
some other technical ministries and agencies continue to operate specialized training
institutions.The METFP consists of four directorates and a Conseil Sup6rieur de la Formation
Professionelle whose functions are described below.
(a)   The Conseil Sup6rieur, presided by the Minister, consists of representatives from
concerned ministries, and employer and employee associations. Meeting on a regular
basis, the Conseil is a forum where the different actors of the training and employment
system can provide input to the decision making process for the Ministry. It is
assisted in its functions by a Comit6 Technique Permanent.
ib)   The Directorate of Studies, Research and Strat,,gic Prospectives (Direction des
Etudes, Recherches et Prospectives -- DERP) is respe sible for conducting studies on
the supply and demand of training and employment, ' ogramming, developinq projects for
the ministry, fund raising, and monitoring and eva 4ation of projects. The DERP became
active in November 1988 and its activities have t n financed through the Project
Preparation Fund for this project. Because of th. short period of activity, not all its
functions have been operational.
(c)   The Directorate of Technical Education (Direction de l'Enseignement Technique --
DET) runs all the technical education institutions and is linked to a Consultative
Committee (Comit6 Consultatif de Professionalisation de l'Enseignement Technique),
providing the same type of input as the Conseil Superieur above
Id) Directorate of Apprenticeship, Vocational Training, and Professional Upgrading
iDirection de l'Apprentissage de la Formation et du Perfectionnement Professionels --
DAFPP) is responsible for apprenticeship and training of young people not enrolled in
technical education institutions, for adult training and upgrading, and for entry level
training. The DAFPP is linked to a Inter-professional Consultative Comite (Comit6
Interprofessionel Consultatif) which provides guidance and input to their activities
from representatives of employers.
(e)   The Directorate of Common Affairs (Direction des Affaires Communes -- DAC) is
charged with personnel management, scholarships and internships, preparation of the
recurrent budget, management of the apprenticeship tax, preparation and monitoring of
investment projects, and facility and equipment maintenance.
2.           The present structure of the METFP is plagued with a number of problems. First,
the structure of the METFP, inherited from the education system, is adapted to the management
of traditional academic education rather than a demand driven training system. Second, the
different directorates have overlapping and often conflicting resonsibilities. Third, the
Directorates lack the means to execute their tasks effectively. Fourth, there are new demands
to meet training needs in different sectors of the economy (rural, informal, and private
modern) for which the ministry is ill prepared.
3.           Based on a careful analysis of the weaknesses inherent in the current structure
of the METFP and its Directorates, a number of changes have been proposed which shall be
implemented as part of the Government's sector reform.
4.           Objective. The purpose of the restructuring is to render the METFP capable of
implementing theGovernment's reform program for the training system. To meet this goal, the
following approaches have been adopted:



- 41 -
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 8
-     Identify duplications in responsibilities and structural weaknesses in the
present organigram of the PETFP, and restructure the Directorates accordingly.
-     Provide each restructured Directorate with the resources necessary to perform its
new responsibilities while taking into account the recruitment and budgeting
constraints included in Togo's macro-economic policy framework and its adjustment
program.
5.           Provosed Institutional Changes. The proposed institutional changes will affect
the make up and responsibilities of a-l four Directorates of the METFP. Through these
changes, the system will be brought more in line with its new mandate of providing "demand
driven" training. The proposed reinforcement of the DERP will provide the information base
necessary for a flexible system. The changes proposed for the DET and the DAFPP will enable
the training system to develop programs which are more relevant to local labor market needs.
Of particular note is the strengthening of trade testing capacity in both these directorates.
The financial and budgetary administration of the system will be rationalized by
concentrating these management responsibilities in the DAC. The establishment of a National
Training Fund Management Committee, discussed in more detail in Annex 3.6, will provide
financial support to training activities which have demonstrated their capacity to meet labor
market demand and thu- enable the system to provide incentives for stronger links between
training and labor market needs. An organigram of the proposed structure of the Ministry is
included in Annex 2.3.
6.           Linkinq traininq to employment. The DERP, rendered operational through the PPF,
will continue to receive support through credit financing. The DERP will house the
Observatory of Training and Employment (OEF), (see Annex 3.2), which will collect and analyze
information on labor market needs and training system performance for the whole of the
training system. The DERP will consist of two Divisions: the Labor Market and Training Needs
Division (Division Ad6quation formation/emploi) and the Strategies and Prospectives Division
(Division Recherche Prospectives). The current Projects Division has never been operational:
this function will be assigned to the FNAFPP. Cost information and the implementation
schedule are included in the attached tables.
7.           The underlying responsibility of the DERP is to provide strategic guidance to the
whole of the training system. Through the Labor Market and Training Needs Division, the DERP
will use the information collected and analyzed by the labor market information system to
identify training needs. In particular the DERP will provide the criteria on which to select
training sub-projects for financing. The Strategies and Prospectives Division will perform
two functions. First, it will develop lon term strategies for the sector and will carry out
specific studies for this purpose. To fulfill this function, it will have the authority to
request specific data collecting tasks to be conducted by the OEF. Second, it will have the
responsibility of disseminating information regarding how to solicit financial support from
the National Training Fund. It will also provide all interested Parties with all findings of
the Labor Market and Training Needs Division. In addition, it will produce and distribute a
pamphlet describing the process for soliciting funding for specific training interventions
from the Fund as well as conduct seminars for interested parties on this subject.
8.           Conver ence of the training directorates. The proposed reform of the technical
education system wili bring two changes in the approach of the system. First, there will be a
gradual Professionalization of technical education as well as the implementation of "dual
approach' training methods. Second, there will be a gradual organization and control of
apprenticeship with the introduction of theoretical instruction. These changes signify that
the functions of the DET and the DAFPP are converging and in fact, a merger of the two
directorates is programmed for the immediate future. Complementary responsibilities will be
reinforced in the two existing Directorates to facilitate this development.
9.           The new structure of the DET will include four divisions presented below. Details
on the costs and the implementation schedule are presented in a following section.
Proorams (Pdaaoie) will be res pnsible for the development of curricula and training
materiais tor tne training establishments. Information provided by the DERP will assist
in the development of appropriate training inputs. In addition, there will be an
Inspectorate reporting to the Deputy Director who is also the head of the Programs
Division.
Information and Statistics (Documentation. Information, et Statistiques) will collect
and disseminate to interested parties data regarding enrollment, staffing and other
administrative information regarding the training establishments falling under the
authority of the DET.



- 42 -
Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 8
E uimnt and Maintenance (Patrimoine. Maintenance. Travaux et Eguieement) will
1 en iTy ana execute maintenance neeas iequipment and facilities) tor al  training
establishments.
Examinations and Trade Tests (Examen et Concours) will be responsible for the
development ana execution of all examinations an tests used in the training centers
and will deliver certificates, diplomas and grades. This division will be strengthened
by the creation of a Trade Testing and Certificate Unit (to be discussed in more detail
in paragraph 12)
10.          The DAFPP will consist of five division.  The existing Division of Studies,
Programs and Examinations will be split into two: Studies and Programs and Trade Tests and
Certification. A new Division of Apprenticeship Counselling will be created. The Agricultural
Training Division will be renamed the Rural Training Division and the Regulations Division
will remain unchanged. Details on the costs and the implementation schedule can be found
below. The responsibilities of the five Divisions are presented below:
Studies and Programs (Etudes et P dagogie) will provide pedagogical support for the
teaching of theoretical courses for apprentices.
Reaulations (Tutelles et R6glements) will be responsible for the oversight and
monitoring ot tne ail legal arrangements regarding apprentices.
Trade Testina and Certification (Examen et ConcoursI will continue to develop
certification processes for apprentices registered in different trades.
Rural Training (Formation Professionelle Rurale) will develop training programs which
are specificaTl tailored to the labor market needs of the non-agriculturai rural
sector, on the tasis of information provided by the DERP.
Aoprenticeship Counselling (Conseillers d'APoprentissage) will provide support and
orientation to apprentices and prospective apprentices through its staff of field
A,prenticeship Counsellors. This Directorate will be closely linked to the Regulations
D vision.
1I.          As mentioned above, the changes forseen for the DET and the DAFPP are the first
phase of the merger of these two Directorates. At a later stage, the Direction de
l'Enseignement Professionel will be created through the following changes:
Studies and PedN2oZ will result from a merger of the Studies and Programs Division of
theDAFPPaana the Programs Division of the DET. This Division will be responsible for
the content of all training programs and will assist the FNAFPP in the evaluation of
the pedagogical content of proposed sub-projects. The Apprenticeship Counselling
Division will be combined with the Inspectorate within this division.
E,amirations and Certificates will incide both t.ie Examinations Division of the DET
and the Trade Teting and Certification Division of the DAFPP.
The three division of Reaulations (from DAFP), Rural Training (DAFP), and Information
and Statistics (DET) w'T1beber-ought directly into the DEP trom their former
Di rectorates.
The functions performed by Equipment and Maintenance (DET) will be transferred to the
DAC.
12.          Trade testing. With the revision of training prorams, the CAP certificate will
eventually be replaced by local trade tests which clearly reflect local job profiles. The
trade tests will serve as a yardstick for objectively measuring skill attainment. Employers
will participate in defining the job profiles and in the organization and running of the
tests *o make sure that both are closely adapted to local requirements. Trade testing will
also be open to workers already employed. The DAFPP is already running local tests for the
apprenticeship certificate (CFA) in a limited number of industrial trades but does not
currently have a special division for this purpose. Some artisan professional associations
(tailors and hairdressers) are running their own CFA tests. The goal is to systematize the
trade testing procedure through the creation of a trade testing unit within the Examinations
Division of the DET and a separate Trade Testing Division in DAFP. In this manner training
and technical assistance necessary for the trade testing process to function properly can be
provided throughout the system.



- 43 -
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 8
13.          Streamlinina manaaement responsibilities. Each Directorate is currently endowed
with its own Aoministration and Finance vivision (Division Administrative et Financire)
which is responsible for the preparation and execution of recurrent budgets and investment
programs. In order to correct this overlap, these divisions will be eliminated and all
responsibilities relating to finance for the system will be transferred to the DAC. The DAC
will also be responsible for assisting METFP training establishments prepare requests for the
funding of training sub-projects.
14.          Administration and timetable for institutional chances. The institutional chanies
discussed above will be implemented during the lMfe of the project according to the timetable
embedded in the Government Action Plan. All changes will be introduced through ministerial
decree.
15.          Costs. The following cost tables summarize the major expenditures necessary to
reinforce the-ilierent Directorates. The DERP will be provided with office equipment (micro-
computer telecopier, consumables), and vehicles (5). In addition, a documentation center
will be built as an extension of current facilities and the project will finance the
provision of documentation. The DERP will also be provided with the materials necessary to
produce and distribute the pamphlets describing procedures for Training Fund sub-project
financing. The DET will be supplied with additional office equipment (micro-computer,
photocopier, typewriters, consumables) and vehicles (2) for the Directorate to carry out its
tasks effectively. The DAFPP will receive necessary office equipment (word processor,
photocopier, typewriters, consumables) and vehicles (2 cars, 2 motor-cycles). In addition
the construction of a new building is envisaged to house the DAFPP offices. The DAC will 6e
provided with office equipment (micro-computer, photocopier, consumables) and new offices
will be built.  For all divisions, fellowships and consultant services will be provided for
institutional reinforcement within the reform context and necessary training costs will also
be covered through the project financing. No new staff positions will be funded through the
project in accordance with the limitations on the Government's global salary budget resulting
from its macroeconomic adjustment program.



- 44 -
Annex 3.1
Repuibilqu  Togosise                                                              Page 5 of 8
Rstruct4rstlen de I onselgaemeat teclii    et de
IS formaton prteeloonee l*
Tcble 100. R structrution et daeloppe_st Oir.Etud  PoraptbeRcherohe
Detled Cost Table
CPA
Oreehdeen of Totale Incl.Coat.
Quartity                Unit Coat                     US$
Unit   100  1t91  1M    109N  Tots I         1C908      FP.ch        Locel       Tex"        Total
I. IwSTMEN  COSTS
A. RentOrct ifr.tiq.
clcre portativo              Lot             0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0          1462602   6014.80        0.00        0.00    6014.1e
Vicro-info. bureau           Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0   2.0         290C006   2462.60         0.00       0.00    24602.60
'Fel.oplur                   Unlte           1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         20600E   1677.2           0.00        0.00    11677.2e
42184.20       0.00        0.00 4O54.220
Vehicules additionels
Berlir lager                 unit             0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         84006  14484.62          0.00        0.00    144$4.52
lleb lttes/vaps              Unite           0.0   2.0   2.0   0.0   4.0          261450   4414.60         0.00        0.00    4414.60
16849.82       0.00        0.00    16*40.82
C. A.n.gem.t eall. deb.
ExtAetion documentation      12              0.0  40.0  * 0.0   0.0  40.0          62100   7814.07        16.120       0.00    1801.15
doubles de rengament         Lt              0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0          14609   5412.05        604.68        0.00     6107.47
Dotation liora at dec.       Lot             0.0   1.5   0.6   0.6   2.6          1452802   1532.81        0.00        0.00    15892.8*
26620.19    6710.61        0.00   88881.00
0. Voyoge/stag. tud.a Dir.
Attoe_aet IBR/PPR/Ed.        _in-Jour        0.0  60.0   0.0   0.0  60.0           40670  10104.17         0.00        0.00    10104.17
Attchment BIT                HOelS-ml*       0.0   2.0   0.0   0.0   2.0         1452502   12028.77        0.00        0.00    12026.77
Attacwehnt GTZ               i__ehIs         0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         14E2502   e014.38         0.00        0.00    6014.38
Deplo_menta attach.          Aller-retour    0.0   4.0   0.0   0.0   4.0         11OS02   1288.78         0.00       0.00    19208.78
Attachemect 1eh   4iem-moi.                  0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         14U502   6014.88          0.00       0.00    6014.38
.2445.43       0.00        0.00   62446.48
E. Fermation Equip.
Stages court duree <9)       Hi__e-lois      0.0   4.5   1.t   1.6   7.6         1462602  461".13          0.00       0.00   40177.13
Ebplo_cmeta pour stag..      All-r-ratour    0.0   8.0   1.0   1.0   5.0          464801   981.12          0.00       0.00     9861.12
5602S.25       0.00        0.00   66028.26
198007.40    6710.81        0.00   204606.21
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Porsonnel contrsctuel <10>
Cadre preteaonel             No_me-ois       8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  39.6          80880O       0.00    61937.12       0.00    619$7.12
Cadre moyane (1)                _sele       21.0  72.0  72.0  72.0 287.0          1647Sf       0.00  166190.77        0.00   166108.77
Secretariat <6 H>mm-ml*                      7.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  79.0          160473       0.00   68099.59        0.00    55899.69
Personnel soutien (7)         ome-mis       14.0  46.0  46.0  48.0 156.0           37066       0.00   24929.82        0.00   2492.962
0.00  29046S.20        0.00  290465.20
8. Appuis technique
Speclaflete racennoents      Hm.jour         0.0  20.0  10.0  10.0  40.0           71173   11686.76        0.00       0.00   l1586.7?
fedection dee  rspports      Hme-eo;*        0.0   3.0   1.6   1.5   6.0         8105505   7so26.66        0.00       0.00    76026.66
Diplcamenta appuis <2>       AII-r-retour    0.0  10.0   4.0   4.0  16.0           561001   42428.01       0.00        0.00   42423.91
Specialist Adtquation        H_e;-m-e        0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         3106505   12600.21        0.00        0.00   12680.21
144666.66       0.00        0.00  144666.56
C. Participation onenrence.
Deplcoments <2)              Aller-retour    0.0   6.0   8.0   8.0  12.0           290800   14186.67       0.00        0.00   14106.67
Per diem co.fornene  <(8     i_m-jeur        0.0  60.0  80.0  60.0  120.0           29005    14106.67      0.00        0.00   14166.67
20873.33       0.00        0.00   20373.83
0. Publiclta et informtion
Fre* deo pubile Deotat;on/sol    3.6  12.0  12.0  12.0  39.6                        20592      0.00    8462-47         0.00    3482.47
ImoresIon 50,000 guides      Fortfataire      -                                       -        0.00   172487.21        0.00   172467.21
Semn;ire a*nsbilllation    Fortfataire       -             -      -      -            -       0.00  187909.77         0.00  187S9.77
Impres.rapperta 0F/DERP      Forteltaire      -      -      -      -      -     -              0.00   55168.84         0.00   6671S.34
0.00  8S662.60         0.00   7609S2.80
1. Frel* de fonet. vahicules (4)  Dotation/.olc   8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  89.5           10680O      0.00    61037.12        0.00    51087.12
F. Materiel. et fonctomnant
Coenomabls ;nfoneat.         Dotationjoia   8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  89.6            077U8   7618.12    9006.89          0.00    16681.51
Fral* de reproduction        Ootation/so l    8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  89.5          61460       0.00    6656.10         0.00    86e6.19
Mtartels bureux              Ootaton/mois   6.6  12.0  12.0  12.0   9.6           906604    S7t.?C    t24.71           0.00    16630.46
Contrat entrotien (6) Motation/mele   8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  09.6                 102900       0.00    17312.37        0.00    17312.37
Elec.1iphoen.tel-a et        Doation/mole   8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  89.5           1029i0       0.00    17812.8?       0.00    17312.87
17166.67    59004.02       0.00    76792.09
190226.75  77t965.24        0.00   060687.9
898326.1S   76870.04        0.00  1174606.20
(1) Cherehura 3, Inform.ticien/Stotlaticlen 1, Documental ist 1
(2) Afriqu - Europe
(8) En moen 2 coen, chncun do ax do 10 Jrs
44> Fonctionnemnt de 3 vehIcules mxl...
(5) Entretien informatique at photocopiers
(6) Inforastique
(7M ChOuffeur, Vxg_ubmtr* Gordian, at 9arcon d entrltion
(6) Sacrtalre do Dirwction at Secretairo dactylo.
(9) Sumge do 1.$ golf chacun
(10) 6irection
7/21/1090 9:11



Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 8
Rapubli  Togisia.
ftestueturation da I ena _h It tachque  t de
l. foration preasionn.ll.
Table 102. RNetrueturatlon do to Bitlion do I   eeign   t thnIqu
otail led Coat Table
CPA
Breakdown of Totlo I.ncl.Cont.
Quantity               Unit Coat                          US$
-_                                                      _
Unit   1090  1991  1022  1993 Total         1990-93        F.Exch      LOcal       Taxes     TYOtl
I. DfNESTMET COMT
A. Appul a I direction
ictro-inforatiqua (>       Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0    9OOS0             3,11611.20     0.00        0.00   llM.2
Photocopier (grande)       Unite           1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         1824004       9201.60       0.00        0.00    9201.*0
lIchine ecrir (*Iae)      Unite           2.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0          436731       84n.16        0.00        0.00    847.10
Sub-Totl                                                                                    24312.24       0.00        0.00   24312.24
9. Vehiculm
Breal  av                  Units           1.0   0.0   C.0   0.0   1.0          1775001     1506.43        0.00        0.00   1600.48
Bahm 44   Mae              Unitt           0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         4367w0?      16043.16       0.00        0.00   1t048.16
Sub-iTot I                                                                                   3093.30        0.00        0.00   3309.69
C. Sevelopoeat 'Tew% certifa
Formation equip. nt. (6) N>   m I oal      0.0  12.0   8.0   0.0  18.0         1462502     10966.29        0.00        0.00   109866.29
Deplaceenata pour atudea    Al ler-rtour    0.0   2.0   1.0   0.0   3.0        464601   6e43.67            0.00        0.00    6848.07
Sub-Total 1155i1.1                                                                                         0 00        0.00   115815.15
0. Sensibileation equip*
Voyas4 d'4atudea           Nme-eio         2.0   1.0   2.0   0.0   6.0          20251       1i144."        0.00        0.00  * 16044.77
ibplac_nt wovy.td.         AlIIr-retour    2.0   1.0   2.0   0.0   6.0 4O601                 9S22.65       0.00        0.00    9020.06
Siour   dstuda (> _eHamt-ao*a              0.0  10.0  10.0   0.0  20.0         146202      12 .30          0.00        0.00  122633.60
iieplacementa bourse       Al lor-ratour    0.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   2.0        464801        3924.27       0.00        0.00    3924.27
Sub-Total                                                                                   161230.98       0.00        0.00  161230.99
To  l INVESTMT COSTS                                                                               824151.06       0.00       0.00   324161.9
I1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Oielopp_ent 'Teat eart'
ApPuto en teat                -eois        2.6   2.5   1.0   1.0   7.0         8l10650      66723.17       0.00        0.00   99723.17
Deplb_nta appuia           Aller-rateur    2.0   2.0   1.0   1.0   0.0           0t1001     13376.16       0.00        0.00    13378.13
Per diem *ppuoI             Horn-jour      70.0  70.0  42.0  42.0 224.0          46201          0.00   41947.63        0.00   41947.63
Contractual. nationau2)    lmme-is         7.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  43.0          164736          0.00   29930.03        0.00   2930.63
Sub-Total                                                                                   102601.3    71976.20        0.00   17447i.02
S. Moduleo apecioliastion
Appule pour *oebor.aods.    HOME.-eo_       0.0  10.0   6.0   0.0  24.0        810606      *070815.60      0.00        0.00  307065.60
Seplacuent appuie          Al lor-ratour    0.0   8.0   6.0   0.0  16.0         581001      37458.90       0.00        0.00   37458.00
Per diem appuie            Hems-jour       0.0 480.0 240.0   0.0  720.0          t2329          0.00   97047.6a        0.00   97047.08
Sub-iot  Tr44624..0   97047.608                                                                                         0.00   441572.18
C. Appuis ponctuala
Inforeatiqua (7>           H        seto   0.0   2.0   0.6   0.5   3.0          66280           0.00    7131.59        0.00    7131.59
0. Ponctionnement
Contrat 1ntretien Inform.   fltation       1 0   2.0   2.0   2.0   7.0         1226519          0.00   36409.07        0.00   36409.07
Consoenablea bureau        Dotationm/ola   8.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  39.5           48347       4687.87     3027.3t5      0.00    6315.23
Freis vehicule             Ootation/oia      -            -     -      -           -            0.00   29662.03        0.00   29852.03
Sub-Total                                                                                     4687.87   60030.46        0.00   745767.3
Totl RCONT COSTS                                                                                   461813.78  245069.08       0.00  697760.71
Total                                                                                           775965.69  24594S.98        0.00 1021911.67
(1) Voyge deuda (Lux_bourg) vec gtagec dana entreprie  pour 5 em.
42  Allor/reteur en Europa pour aque p.rticipnt
<3> Reeyclag dan  Is formation odulaira  wec attacheent  un CFP (Europa)
(4> Formation en adainitrotion dem  eb.fere.prot. on Europa
<5) viere-ordtnateur imprlmant, enduleur logicila eatc
(6) Formtion dam 3 person pendant S mole ehacuna
7> Speciiate natinal
(8) Formation d podegogue - format_are
7/21/1990 0:10



- 46 -
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 8
Rapublqu 700.1.1.
Roetruoturetion de I e1elpnt te_1 cquet de
a feoration profeloennelle
Table 103. Ret.ucturatlon Direct. Formation ProelO.oet Apprgnlea
Dbt iled Coot Table
CPA
Breakdown of Tetale Iaol.Cont.
unit Coat                      Up
mmmm
Unit  19S0 1001 9102 1003 Total      1550-93       F.Kxch     Local     Tan,       Tol I
1. IN CESIEIISI S
A. Supgort pour Dirfctlon
Photeoopleur              Unite          1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0       2324004      0261.80      0.0e       0.00   0261.60
Poso, traitamant do tauto (S)Lot         1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0       20000        11517.26     0.00      0.00  11671.2e
Machine ecrire            Unite          2.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.0        4J5761      2473.18      0.00      0.00   8473.18
Sub-Total                                                                           24i32.24      0.00      0.00  24312.24
9. rntetion botlen
C uveau burau             M2             0.0 50.0 40.0  0.0 90.o 0        2100      17116.24  13635.70     0.00  3112.903
C. Vehioulee
Break ue                   Unite         0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0        a?7e60s     1687.40      0.00      0.00  13631.40
Backe lae                 Unite          0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0       4357607      16043.15     0.00       0.00  16048.16
Moto/ obylette            Unite          0.0  1.0  1.0  0.0  2.0         377651     3189.47      0.00      0.00   31S6.47
Sub-Total                                                                           a666.02       000      o0.00  3S660.02
D. Formation de I *quiP
Voyae 4 etu  (De r)       kamesoie       0.0  0.6  0.5  0.0  1.0        1452602     0131.66      0.00      0.00   6131.66
Deplac entoey.d etud      AIller-rotour   0.0  1.0  1.0  0.0  2.0        2W0000     2452.67      0.00      0.00   2482.67
Bourn  Tat cartif.0       Nooe-oe        0.0  3.0  3.0  0.0  6.0        34601       682s.60      0.00      0.00   620.60
D elec_ment               Allor-retour   0.0  1.0  1.0  0.0  2.0        290000      2462.67      0.00      0.00   2452.67
Bouree Tute lo et  s-.      omemole      0.0  2.0  0.0  0.0  2.0        346601      2666.s0      0.00      0.00   2666.90
Deplcesmn                 AI lor-roeour   0.0  2.0  0.0  0.0  2.0       200500      2405.75      0.00      0.00   2406.75
Bourge Etudee ped.        "ow e-eoi      0.0  3.0  3.0  0.0  6.0        346601      862.60       0.00      0.00   e829.60
Doplacemonto              Allor-retour   0.0  1.0  1.0  0.0  2.0        290000      2452.67      0.00      0.00   2452.67
Sub-Total                                                                           36441.52      0.00      0.00  36441.52
S. FonM.Consei I lotr apprent.
Stage on CIP <e>         H!we-mis        0.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 36.0        348601     64017.23      0.00      0.00  54017.23
Toteal DVESTMENT COSTS                                                                    1is628.24  3i835.70    o0.00  18333.04
It. RECIRRENT COSm
A. Ettude t aupean *nten.
Architeto t Ingenieur     Fortaltaire                                                  0.00   4421.60      0.00   4421.60
_. Pro_l contrectuel
speciallet teat certi#.    Hocme-ol      3.0  12.0 12.0  12.0 30.0      164736         o.00  27361.10      0.00  273S1.10
C. Con_cenblen
Coneomable. bureu         Dotetlon/cois  3.5 12.0 12.0 12.0 30.5         46347      4867.87   3827.35      0.00   0315.23
Cons_mble- Intemot.       Dotation/sole  3.5 12.0 12.0 12.0  0.5         10846       1342.82   1613.66     0.00   376.30
Fonctionemant ehiculo.    Dottion/mos   -    -    -          --                        0.00  26244.66      0.00  20244.06
Sub-Tote l                                                                            620.50  3360.60       0o.00  306 .s
Tot, I ECUIREfT COSTS                                                                    -620.50 t    6466.60      0.00  717as.00
Totol                                                                                  17720.74  76624.29      0.00 265103.03
() Voe d'etude (Lubourg) avec etege due eatroprisa pour 6 _.
2) Al lr/rter en Euro pour Ceq  particliant
43) Recyog deft to for_ation moduleire *vec attachment uX CFP (Europe)
(4) Formtion on oadinietretion due etb.torm.prof. on Europ
<S> Icro-ordl_ateur, Imprlsant, onduleur, et logieoleo
<O> CAP ou ST * Ste en NPP pour six sole pour total d.e a coneelIle
7/14/1060 16:50



- 47 -
Annex 3.1
Republiquo Togolalee                                       Page 8 of 8
R40tructuretion de I a"")p em_nt technique et do
Tae 1 *r0t1on praf.erlonnal Co
Table 101. Retructuratlon Dir. dee Affair"o Ce_uac
a led Coat Table
CPA
Brtakdorn of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity               Unit Ceat                      USe
Unit  199   11   IS2  1998 Total          10093         F.Exch     LO"aI     Taxe      Total
1. IIEST1MDI  COSTS
A. Renforc_ment de Is Dir.
Renowvconmtruct. bureax  1M2              0.0  120.0  30.0   0.0 200.0       106863     61355.64  89702.98      0.00  0So08.5?
Mobillir bureux           Petetion        0.0   8.0   0.0   0.0   8.0       1175120     12091.07   166.86       0.00  14657.93
Photocopier               Unite           1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       2324004      0261.60      0.00      0.00   9261.80
Voyage d'etudes (Dir)     Iamoe-eel       0.6   0.6   0.0   0.0   1.0       1462602      6901.61      0.00      0.00   6901.61
Perfect. secretarlat      Nome-els        0.6   0.6   0.6   0.0   1.5        84801       2166.28      0.00      0.00   2166.28
Sub-TotAl                                                                                6al76.2e  41860.79      0.00 128046.06
S. Service poronnel
Mice.o-Info.e.tiqu. <1)   Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       2906O00     11577.26      0.00      0.00  11577.26
Mebiller Informetique     Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       1101676      8907.82    491.41      0.00   4809.?
Rangment de fich.         Lot             0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       1101676      4060.71    520.90      0.00   4580.60
Stoge g etion peeonnel    "moe-mois       0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       1462502      6014.88      0.00      0.00   6014.86
Sut-Totat                                                                                26668.67   1012.81      0.00  26670.96
C. Service do. ftne.
Micro-inforetique (1)     Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       200006      11577.26      0.00      0.00  11677.26
Mobiller lnforatique      Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       1101676      8907.32    401.41      0.00   486.78
Stag. Informatique.       H_ome-mon       1.0   2.0   0.0   0.0   8.0        726261      6900.70      0.00      0.00   SS00.70
Sub-Total                                                                                24193.26    49.41       0.00  24884.69
Total INVESTkMT COSTS                                                                         131626.21  42673.51      0.00  174601.71
I. RECiRT com
A. Renforcment Direction
Etude. Architectural.     Fortultire       -     -      -     -     -           -          0.00  12694.65       0.00  12994.66
Appui pnaation  .ree. (4> 1__ome-ois     C.0   2.6   8.0   1.0   6.S       8776606     09966.85      0.00      0.00  6S9966.63
Deplacmnt Appul d'A d'0 (1)Allor-retour    0.0   4.0   4.0   2.0  10.0       2S0000     11643.74      0.00      0.00  11643.74
Appui plan reatruct.       Home-jour     20.0  20.0  10.0   0.0  60.0         71178     18906.90      0.00      0.00  18068.
Deplacemnt Appuis         AIer-retour    2.0   2.0   1.0   0.0   5.0        6S1001      11899.17      0.00      0.00  1S19.17
Per die. appuat           tome-Jour      16.0  16.0  10.0   0.0  40.0         45261         0.00   7869.79      0.00   7360.79
De_lacsmt Dir.voy.otod.   Al Ir-retour    1.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   2.0       691001      4506.60      0.00      0.00   4606.60
Apput an Infrmatique (S)   Nomo-wln       1.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   3.0       8195505     87609.11      0.00      0.00  87009.11
Por die. Informaticien    Home-mole      80.0  80.0  30.0   0.0  90.0         45261         0.00  16666.18      0.00  16668.18
Materiels onseenmble.     Dotation/aoia   3.6  12.0  12.0  12.0  89.5         19889      1676.16   1460.94      0.00   3826.09
Sub-ToteS I                                                                             161454.11  8648.40       0.00 219027.51
SSrice personnel
pwreaion fiche.           Lot             2.0   2.0   0.0   0.0   4.0         96694       002.14    667.77      0.00   1569.91
Dplacemmnt stoge.         Al le -retour    0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       561001      2206.40      0.00      0.00   2296.40
Materiela cogemmable.     botation/sois   3.5  12.0  12.0  12.0  89.5         10330      1876.15   1450.94      0.00   s22.09
Appul intfoatique         Home-mole       0.5   1.6   0.0   0.0   2.0       3S16506     25023.37      0.00      0.00  26028.87
Appui getion info.per.    Heom-jour      80.0  10.0   0.0   0.0  40.0        113295     17407.67      0.00      0.00  17407.67
Deplacmnt appule (2>      Aller-retour    2.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   8.0        561001      6716.61      0.00      0.00   6716.61
Per die. *ppuiu           NHm_-jour      26.0  10.0   0.0   0.0  35.0         46261         0.00   6s2.80       0.00   6234.30
Sub-Total                                                                                54221.54   6378.01      0.00  62594.56
C. Serviee tfinnce.
Appui budet* (toac.tnvea)   Name-Jour    20.0  80.0  20.0  10.0  60.0        113296     86198.07      0.00      0.00  86193.07
Appui infomatitque        Ibmeh-i.        1.0   1.0   0.6   0.0   2.6       319660S     81847.72      0.00      0.00  8147.72
Deplacemnta apnU;o       Aller-reteur    1.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   3.0        561001      6692.57      0.00      0.00    s92.57
Per die appula            Home-jour      20.0  30.0  20.0  10.0  90.0         45261         0.00  14994.96      0.00  14994.96
Materiele consamable.     Dotetlonmiet   7.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  43.0          19889      2080.00   1567.80      0.00   8697.60
Sub-Total                                                                                76468.86  16662.66      0.00  9302.01
Total RECtlRENT COSTS                                                                          J12139.00  68409.07      0.00 876646.07
-_---
Total                                                                                       448?77.21 106262.57      0.00 660049.7
<1> Ordinateur, i.preante, onduleur. at logicela,
a> DeIpmant 3urope/Afrique
(8)  pErt rolonat
<4> E"ert praration deat-er d'A d'O  t eIvaution des offre.
<(> d'eppnl d'otffre
7/21A110 9:10



- 48 -
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 6
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LABOR MARKET MONITORING SYSTEM
Training and Employment Observatory (GEf)
1.              Introduction.  As in many other developing countries, particularly in Sub-Saharan
Africa, data and analyses on labor market changes and training in Togo are sparse and difficult to
obtain. where they exist, they are generally unreliable and rarely,  if at all, used as part of the
decision-making process. In this context it is not easy for Togolese leaders in either the public
or private sector to take the decisions on vocational and technical training made necessary by
changes at both the international and national level in production structures. This familiar problem
is compounded by the lack of any convincing theoretical consensus as regards the basis for the match
between training and employment. On this point it is enough to recall the lively debates in the
1970s over the respective merits of supply and demand projections for labor based on traditional
methods of manpower planning, as compared to the supposed merits of rate of return analysis.
2.             At a time of rapid national and international change and given the significant -- and
increasing -- sums allocated to vocational training and technical education in both developed and
developing countries, it is, therefore, more necessary than ever to introduce a reliable,
decentralized and economical system for gathering, processing and analyzing data on labor market and
training developments, in order to work toward, even if not to achieve, a better match between
training and employment.
3.             The Training and Employment Observatory (OEF) to be established as part of this
project in Togo will respond in part to the concerns summarized above.
4.             Objective. The main task of OEF located within the Directorate of Studies  Research
and Prospective of the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (METFP) will be the
continuous study of the information available to it (or generated by it) on the labor and training
markets, in order to supply feedback for decisions by both public and private sector operators
participating in the complex interaction between training and employment.   In particular, the
criteria used by the Management Committee established by the National Training Fund to select
subprojects to be financed by the Fund will be partly based on OEF's work.
S.             Work functions and methods.  To this end  OEF will be responsible for gathering and
analyzins data on the labor market (public sector, parapublic sector, modern private sector, informal
rural ana urban sectors) and on training (Vocational Training Centers, Integrated Business Training
Centers, Apprenticeship, etc.). One of its main sources of information will be the regular use of
tracer studies of graduates from training centers and programs.  The analysis of the data thus
gathered will lead to regular publications and preparation of an analytical chart summarizing the
match between training and employment in Togo, for information and action by the management committee
referred to above.
6.             Certain additional, tested methods of data gathering and analysis will be used to
provide the information needed. Taken separately, none of these methods provides a complete picture
of the match between training and employment, but, viewed as a coherent whole, they will enable
trends to be assessed and subsequently influenced.   To avoid the always expensive process of
gathering information already available from other sources -- or available for a low additional
marginal cost -- OEF will as far as possible use existing sources of data in Togo.
7.              Labor market.  The following information will be collected sector by sector:
(i)  Public Sector:  Using the Directorate of Finance payroll available at CENETI (National Data
Processing  Center),  a  summary  chart will  be prepared every  six months  showing  the
professional status (occupation, pay grade, entry date) and remuneration (basic salary,
allowances, deductions) of government employees. This table will permit periodic evaluation
of changes in the civil service in Togo. In a second phase, using a representative sample,
it will permit quick, ad hoc surveys of the changing match between training and employment
in the civil service.
(ii) Paracublic sector and modern private sector: The main source of statistical information on
employment in these two sectors is in the records of the National Social Security Fund
(CUSS), since every employer (except for permanent government personnel with civil servant



- 49 -
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 6
status) is in theory obliged to register his staff (or himself if self-employed) and pay
monthly contributions. This data, although not fully covering the two sectors in question
(it is biased toward the larger units, which can less easily evade the regulations), will
be reorganized to provide information on changes in employment in these two sectors by type
and size of enterprise, geographical location and CITI code. The marginal adjustments in
the CNSS data will permit preparation of a summary table every six months on changes and
employment in these two sectors, and will provide a solid platform for the construction of
a representative sample of firms as a basis for regular surveys of their pre-employment and
in-service training needs. It is planned that HETFP and the Chamber of Commerce will work
together on these surveys in order to motivate directors of firms to provide comprehensive
and reliable information to OEF.
(iii) Urban and rural informal sector: The difficulties of analyzing changes in employment and
training needs in this sector are well known, not least because the sector by nature is not
covered by traditional statistics-gathering methods. Nonetheless, the academic and practical
work of researchers in the social sciences has made certain theoretical and operational tools
available for addressing these problems, in particular the ongoing research program being
conducted by the World Bank, the Development Center of OECD and the ILO, in conjunction with
the authorities in a number African countries, on education and training in the informal
sector and small businesses in Africa. Within this framework it is planned to carry out
regular analyses of the informal sector in Togo, using four complementary tools:
-      periodic census of all activities in urban and rural areas
-      profession-specific studies (10 per year)
-      in-depth studies of some 30 firms in the 10 professions studied each year
-       increased coordination and collaboration among agencies and institutions (NGOs,
bilateral and multilateral assistance organizations) active in the informal sector.
8.              Togo's participation in the study grogram referred to above and the policy dialoque
on education and training in the informal sector has laid the foundation for a national capability
to analyze the sector, using criteria that are methodologically and sciertifically sound.
9.             Monitorina araduates of training centers and procrams.  The importance of regular
evaluation of the quality of training and its relevance to labor market needs is now taken for
granted. Using such techniques, resource allocation decisions in both the public and private sectors
can be altered, trograms adjusted and information provided to would-be students and trainees to help
them decide whether to enroll at a given basic training center or to take a given program (in-service
itraining/recycling, skills upgrading/updating, skill retraining). Tracer studies of graduates must
replace examination results as a form of evaluating training institutions. It is planned, as part
of OEF's regular activities, to introduce a process of systematic monitoring and evaluation of
training programs and centers. It is planned to preregister with the CNSS all students entering the
pre-employment training centers from their first year onward.
10.            The information developed by this systematic preregistration will take various forms:
-      analysis of changes in the time required to obtain various types of jobs (in
particular, it will be possible to examine the impact of individual programs by
sector, since all the graduates going into the urban and/or rural informal sector will
not otherwise be recorded by the current registration system.
-      study and evaluation of the quality and impact of the training provided;
-      creation in Togo of a sampling base almost unique in Africa.
11.            Household surve .  As part of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment project, it is
planned to cary out a househo   survey in Togo in 18 months' time.  It will be most useful for OEF
to be associated with the Directorate of Statistics in order to have access to the very interesting
information that these questionnaires will reveal in the areas of education, training, employment
and income.
12.            Monitorina the results of the Stages d'Adaptation a la Vie Professionnelle (SAVP).
The principle and application of the SAVP in Togo is described elsewhere in this document. It need
only be mentioned here that any young person wishing to benefit from the SAVP will be monitored using
appropriate questionnaires at the beginning and end of the process. The information emerging from



- 50 -
Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 6
these questionnaires will be very useful in establishing the reasons for the period of unemployment
following graduation from the training centers.
13.            Other sources of information on trainina needs.  Two other sources of information
should also be mentioned:   first, the investment project dossiers submitted to the Ministry of
Planning (currently around 600), which facilitate projections regarding short-term changes in
employment, by occupation, and future skilled manpower needs; second, and of increasing importance
during the life of this project, the applications to be filed by firms for the right to benefit from
the advantages of the Free Trade Zone currently being established. As already mentioned in the body
of this report, should the development of Free Zone activities follow the pattern observed in other
countries that have made similar arrangements, it is probable that during the first three years
after the Zone's introduction the manpower required will be semiskilled or unskilled, except for
higher-level positions (generally expatriates) and very specialized maintenance personnel (electrical
maintenance in particular).   workers are generally needed for highly labor-intensive assembly
industries, normally textiles and electronics. However, in the second phase, of expansion upstream
an increasingly skilled labor force is required. This phased development parallels the buildup of
the present project to consolidate and selectively expand technical education and vocational
training, and the two systems will therefore be able to evolve in complementary fashion. It will
thus be important for OEF to monitor Free Zone activities carefully so as to be able to respond
promptly and flexibly to the growing need for skilled manpower that will arise in future years.
14             Ir.ternal orqanization and anticioated groducts of OEF.  In the first stage  i.e.
during the current project, 0EF-w-ill-e located within DERP, who-s-e present staff will also be
responsible for running OEF.  In the second stage, OEF is intended to play a key role in the
development of public and private technical education and vocational training. It could eventually
become an autonomous institution if necessary.
15.            Expected OEF oroducts.  OEF should provide three kinds of products:
-      charts summarizing the training and employment situation in Togo to provide a firm
foundation for resource allocation decisions by the FNAFPP management committee
(criteria will be prepared by DERP on the basis of information from OEF);
=      the production (collection/analysis of data and studies on training and employment),
resulting in semiregular and/or ad hoc publications;
=      distribution to as wide a public as possible of data and analyses collected or
produced (public and private sector operators, young people needing guidance, adults
changing occupations, etc.).
16.            OEF will receive support from DERP's Documentation Center and will be in contact with
other institutions active at the national or international level in the area of matching training
and employment needs.
17.            Future functions of OEF.  The future development of the training market in Togo will
entail the appearance of some new functions in the years ahead, including:
-      establishment/expansion/consolidation of private training organizations (requiring
stronger enforcement of the regulations in this area);
-      the need for a nationil program to certify the various forms of training provided (in
order to rationalize the various routes to training and to increase market
responsiveness);
skills retraining and upgrading for teachers (in light of new sectors resulting from
technological developments);
-      support for new pedagogical ideas, including locally-inspired innovations;
-      support for the methodology of forward planning and training plans by economic
entities in Togo.
18.            OEF will identify and monitor developments in this area and could help to lay the
foundation for a National Vocational Training Office as part of a possible future training project
supported by the World Bank.
19.            Work timetable\orogram. The annual timetable of OEF could be defined by incorporating



- 51 -
Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 6
the key dates shown below:
Tasks and taraet dates
January                Preparation of a detailed schedule of activities
February               Quick study of SAVP
March                  Report on activities
Mini-census of informal sector employment (10 occupations to be chosen and
studied in monographs)
April                  Study of Ministry of Planning project documents and applications for inclusion
in the Free Zone
may                    Circulation of questionnaires to vocational training and technical education
establishments
June                   Report on activities
Survey of the 10 occupations chosen in the informal sector
Survey on modern sector (private, public and parapublic) needs
Performance chart: modern sector (private, public and parapublic) needs
July                   Collection and processing of questionnaires
September              Report on Activities
Tracer study of oraduates of training centers and programs
Registration of trainees with CNSS
December               Summary report on the relevance of training to employment, with summary chart
Chart: modern sector needs (private, public and parapublic)
20.            The costs of introducing the activities described above are shown in detail on the
following pages. Specifically, the project will finance data processing equipment, other small-scale
equipment and furniture and ad hoc, short-term  assistance to help 0EF personnel in the tasks of
collecting, processing and analyzing data on the issue of the re)evance of training to employment.



- 52 -
Annex 3.2
psbi two Toglei                                           Page 5 of 6
B"fgWtl*f OM I 491 _t tehao   ^ 
bs fertten pr - lll- i
Table 104. Obsewv"1ti1 de I  ep"hi66b    s   tPe                                   f
CFA
reebdn of Tetals Keel.Camt.
qotlt               utIt C"                         UW
Unit  1m 0 m 1f1 Tl                 MN*-"         F.ga.6     LOI        TXes      Totl
I.  -T        COSTS
A. Appal Serv.Maln d ODwro
Material Itmformatlqo  (6)   Lot          1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0                   : 1151117.16  0.00      0.00  11577.26
S. Appul Dir.Induat.h.Arble.
Materiel leformtique (0)   Lot            1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       29009       11617.16      0.00      0.00  12t17.21
Total IWIESTUDT COSTS                                                                    218.A6        0.00       0.00  28164.51
II. RECURDIT COM
A. Exploitation fiche CNSS
Appat 7nformatique (1)     Ho_,e-Jour    20.0  40.0  10.0  60.0         7117*     te6on."       0.00      0.00  28616.#6
Deplaceente Inform. 2      Aller-r.tour   1.0   8.0   1.0   0.0       5100        1ISM4.56      0.00      0.00  18994.86
Per di_ inform.            Meo-Jour    20.0  40.0  10.0  e0.0          4i1           0.00  14902.69       0.00  14#02.59
Sub-Tot. i                                                                         86.8   1492.t9          0.00  61493.9
S. Exploitation ti@he SOIDE
Appul inforsatiqu, ()      Mems-Jour    10.0  80.0  10.0   0.0         711n       17oe0.3?      0.00      0.00  1710.87
Delacmnto informet.        Al lr-retoup   1.0   2.0   1.0   6.0       661001      11I6?."8      0.00      0.00  11667.98
Per die info.              losme-Jout    10.0  20.0  10.0  60.0        41i61         0.00   94t8862       0.00   9488.82
Sub-Tot. I                                                                         16774.86   94U.82       0.00  88218.17
C. iUnoeraphiea our I _aplet
Rapport our Public         H_e-jour    20.0  20.0  20.0  60.0         126tn          0.00    89.49        0.00   6699.49
Rapport eur PersPublic     Home-Jour    20.0  20.0  20.0  60.0         m069u         0.00   6699.49       0.00   69.49
Rapport *ur Prive iodedrne  Hi -Jour    20.0  20.0  20.0  *0.0         20692         0.00   69.49         0.00   6899.49
Rapports non specifies     i_emJour    40.0  40.0  40.0 1O.0           10tn          0.00  18798.96       0.00  18796.98
Sub-To"l                                                                              0.00  84497.44       0.00   4497.44
0. Erqut.omand  Formation
EchantIllon Formtion (4)   Pour mamoire    -     -      -     -                      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
Enqueteura (6)             Home-jout r    0.0  80.0  80.0 10.0          20t9         0.00   1034.92       0.00   1034.92
Redaetion rapport.         Pour amelr-e    -     -      -                             0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Sub-Total                                                                             0.00   10U.92        0.00   1034.92
E. Appul Serv.Main d Oiuvre
Appui inforematicec <(>    Hems-Jour    60.0  40.0  20.0 140.O                    10247.86      0.00      0.00  10247.56
F. Appul Dlr.Indust.Arti;n
Appul intforeatcien <7>    llome-jour    80.0  20.0  10.0  70.0          92           0.00   i667.7t      0.00   6867.?t
Teiot RECURRENT COSTS                                                                    75618.0   6676.60        0.00 14174.5
Tote                                                                                  99767.6   6676.50        0.00  164629.06
(1) Revison logici-l QISS peaur rpport _sseatriel mploi e ctur formal
(2) Earope-Afrlque-Urope
(a) Extension leioe1 SE pear rapport _tre-1 _ple7 Fict.Pub.
<4> 066 eb C;rection de Is Statlati"q
<i) > iuqbsura  edlasta de I maelgn.oup.
(8> Mlcro-ordleateur, Imprisotn, daleulr, loglelee, nec.
(7) Speiaeli t reional
7/14/1990 15:69



-  53  -
llwbItq   Togollaw                                             Annex 3.2
om*"*uefttlo do I   at          thaclenque at de                         Page 6 of 6
la l tznten ptetensioil-
Table 1too.         w out, I   otur Itnormal
Detaled Cot Table
CfA
9rexdouwn ot Totatl Incl.Cent.
tueIty        Unit Coat                       US$
Unit  90-0S  Toal      19003         F.Peh       LOCOl     Taxes      Tot*l
II. RIC1MRIfT COSTS
A. Aetuolteato to. tude baa.
Apput *od /en_/             __quetes  #mehmote  1.0   4.0  J195606   51543.09       0.00      0.00  61643.69
Oplacaeent appal 41)      Aller-ratear   2.0   0.0        C81001     1814S.10       0.00      0.00  18743.10
Per dl_ appul              Hmie-jour    20.0 1.0           46201         0.00  21231.11       0.00  21231.11
Enquetnar e eaee.r.gul. (2) Mmmeo-our   200.0 800.0         20e9         0.00   609.49        0.00   6099.49
Sub-Tot l                                                             702#0.84   2esJo.s9      0.00  98417.44
S.  onograph oa ur settoe.
D.in mett.'e cleoqu. an""   me_-*s   10.0  40.0            08880         0.00   61740.10      0.00   51746.16
C. Roeneaeeeot tepul le
Enqueteure (2)             Mleo-jour   200.0 800.0          20S9         0.00  099.49        0.00   6809.49
Fralt de deplacnt          Memo-jo,   200.0  800.0          20S9         0.00   680040        0.00   6099.49
Freis rapoe queatloaeelre   Poor   re      -      -           -          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Sub-Tot t                                                                 0.00  13700.98        .00  13798.98
Total RECIIRmT COSTS                                                         7020.84   03678.74      0.00  1639623.0
Total                                                                     70286.84  23675.74       0.00  168062.68
(1) Sure.o.A#tlquoEutopo
(2) Enquetaur  nl vesu  ud1cit de I .a.et,.sup.
7/14/1090  16:00
e.publique Toelatos
Ibeasoeteatle. de I aelgamt teesque et de
la leratton protlonne le1
Table 108. OWs  Etud. de autv d4_ reortltat deeabl   I .ETFP
*.1 led C"t Table
CPA
8readoen of Totale Incl.Cont.
uantity         Unit Coat                        USS
ummsm        i    ~      u         u        u
uiJlt   190 01-Os TOt l       100-03        F.gxch     LoalI    Taxes       Totol
iI. RECiWNT COSTS
A. Appal cadre concptuel
Prepration etude sulvi     Remm-mela      2.0   1.0   5.0       319506      63609.80      0.00       0.00  368".80
Oepla.cmot sput            Allt-ret..r   2.0   1.0   6.0         S81001     11681.78      0.00       0.00   11l81.70
Per diem appai             Hememour    40.0  20.0 100.0           45261         0.00   1667.49       0.00   1867.49
Sub-Total                                                                    75281.59  18667.49       0.00  93949.08
S. Sulvi Coord Adteq/pleI
Aut    nalterae            Peer _moir      -      -                  -          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Cre_pmate et Aule.         Pr       Ir     -      -     -           -           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Contra e.ebOrctwAIJaVr.    Pour golre    -        -     -           -           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Or. Ist.r4at.1 bilot.      Peur   Ire      -      -     -           -           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
~~~~Pear _lore    -                       -     -            -          0.0       0.0        0.00      0.00oo
Sub-Total                                                                        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
C. Sulv etabilaa.1ermetioa
VieS_de   eblo.            Poraltlre       -      -     -           -           0.00   1724.87       0.00    1724.87
Saat lu     traitmat Into    Pear om      -      -     -                       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Sub-Teotl                                                                        0.00   1724.87       0.00   1724.87
0. Sulvl dan atudles
Reprod.qu_etleralr_e       eottle.        1.0   1.0   4.0        10200          0.00   1724.87       0.00   1724.87
FPrea  publitite           Fortetllre    1.0   1.0   4.0          61480         0.00    862.44       0.00    062.44
Frluat. F                  FrIat 16re    1.0   1.0   4.0         10200          0.00   1724.87       0.00   1724.07
Letort- ou Prix (1)     -orfattr  l l     2.0   1.0   8.0        102060         0.00   3448.74       0.00   3449. 74
Salcl- dom q4#tloaatlrae (<)1OMO.mls      2.0   2.0   8.0         58620         0.00   1897.36       0.00    1807.36
Traltemoat do qua.         Pear _altre    -       -     -           -           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Sub-Total                                                                        0.00   0660.20       0.00    9669.20
E. Pt-erstltr_amt CIISS
Iaf.rotllo J (3)           Pour at         -            -                       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Ttal RECRW   COSTS                                                                  75281.59  8001.65       0.00  106333.23
TotaI                                                                            75281.9  30061.05        0.00  106888.23
(1> tmettatoen do pertiletto     de rqcd" qso      tear
(2) Agot de *ltate
(8J V1m. speacallate pour CO6SS ase     *ermI
7/14/190 16:00



- 54 -
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 5
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PRWECT
TRAINING OF VET SECTOR STAFF
1.           Backoround and obiective. The reforms to be executed by the Government in the
training sector represent a dramatic departure from past practice in Togo. Restructuring and
retraining take place at the Ministerial level in order to adapt to the new demands on the
sector. The greatest pressure however, will be at the level of the training establishment
itself. These institutions wiil eventually have to provide training programs which are more
closely linked to labor market needs. In addition, they will be  expected to provide "dual'
training with equal emphasis on practical and theoretical knowledge: this is reflected by the
concurrent developments toward professionalizing (i) technical education (with a practical
component) and (ii) apPrenticeship training (with a theoretical component). The current staff
of the training establishments have run "traditional" training programs and have received
training similar to their colleaques in the education sector. As a consequence performance
has been Judged through examinations which rarely reflect the needs of the labor market.
This background is inadequate for the new demands that will be made on their institutions.
2.           The teaching and non-teaching staff of the Regional Training Centers need to get
acquainted with the underlying principles of the restructured system and to have first-hand
experience with similar systems functioning successfully. In addition, they require a better
understanding and first hand experience of the employment possibilities existing in Togo.
Finally the introduction into courses of study of new specializations which have been
identified on the basis of local labor market needs calls for training of instructors in
these fields.
3.           Training of non-teaching staff attached to training centers. The goal of this
training program is to  rovide administrative staff with Tirst nana exprec g              h   ido
training prog e~~~~~~~~~~xperience of the kind of
training system that will be implemented in Togo. Four groups will benefit from this program.
First, the RTC directors will be exposed to a dualu modular trainina system through
industrial experience in businesses in Luxembourg (5 weeks), pedagogical training with
emphasis on modular training in Europe (one month) and management training with emphasis on
rogram management in Europe (one month).  There will be nine participants in this program (6
TC directors, 1 CNPP director and 2 other staff as reserve). Second, workshop chiefs (9
ersons as above) who are responsible for practical training in current establishments will
ae provided with industrial experience in enterprises in the Luxembourg system (1 month), and
training in implementation of modular programs through attachment in European centers using
the modular system (1 month). Finally, six instructor trainers, from existing or to be
appointed CNPP staff will be provided with upgrading training to teach technical instructor
skills through three-month regional fellowships. Fourth, seven Regional Counsellors to be
attached to the training centers and the CNPP will be given six-month regional fellowships to
rovide them with the training and first hand experience to execute their responsibilities as
liaison between training centers and the employers.
4.           Training of teaching staff. Current surveys on the local labor market have
identified a number of fields which require additional personnel. To meet this need, 28
additional instructors will be trained in 3 existing and 25 new specializations. Training
programs will be for periods of 6 to 9 months for further specialization and of 15 to 18
months for initial training (it is preferable for new instructors to have at least a BT
degree). A list of specialization and the duration of proposed training for each
specialization is included in Table 1. Of the 28 instructors, 10 in auto-mechanics
specializations will be trained by a GTZ pro4ect in CNPP and ENSI (Ecole Nationale Sup6rieure
d'Ing6nieurs).  The others will be trained within the framework of this project through
regional fellowships for a total of 261 man/months.



- 55 -
Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 5
Tabe 3.4
C1lcu1ut,on or Instructor T1u£n£g Nceds fot RtT's
SPECIALISATION                                                erORATIO-
d,  E        -   -  -^   -'   4  52  y    Ulut.i  12 ,.  hb n
;l                                                                   4.                                                   Tota I
,eCa8. Auto                          22        8                  -         3         !          3         I        14
Auto leger                           9          a:                                               3         1 1                              3         I5          45
nDiesel                           2          -                                                                                           2          6          12
' iNctract                     2          -                                                                                           2           6         12
elimatisation                   I         -I                                                                                                      9          9
'engns                             I          --                                                                  I                       1          6          6
Hors bord                            3          - -                -                   -                   -                                3          6          to
Caosserielpernture                   4          -                                                                   4                       4          15         60
Sitiment                             25        3i1                           4 __ 1                        2        14
Delun Bitiment                       t          *
Maqonnerie                           7          it       !                  I I                           2         4
ienuuseie                            6          12       1                                                          41  2  1  J
Plombane                             1          2                  -                                                II  -
Carrelege                            I          1                           i1)                            -        U
lldctricith                          Ih         a        33        !        e                    I        e.        t!
lietro-technique                     2          9                  I                             I                                          33        18
Electomique                          4                                                                              4                       4         I9          72
Froi/clilmetisetion                  4                                       -                                      4                       4          s          .2
Mee. Can6rale                        14         24       I         1        3)        U          2        3
Chaudronnerie                        6          4        1         1                             I                  I                       3£         9           0
Oeat industr£CI a l                                                                              -                  4
tee. uunage                          3          12                          13         -         I                 -
M-e. entretlen.                      J          3                           1                    - I
Mee. hydrauliquc                     I          .                           ,                              ,        I                       I          9           9
Artisanat                            b             3        U      i _                ' _        £
TiSge/llatak                         3          3             -        -         -          -              -        U
Sculpture                            I          0        -         -                                                                        I -   I  2  9          9
Poterte Industmrelle                 I         0         ,                                                                                 6           6
Createur artistiqtqe                 I          a        -         -        .          .                                                    1          9           9
Totil                                73         74       6        4         (6)       2          7        6                              28                     339
Note. Formation en wous-riglon - cout h/m  I'CFA St o,1o0. logement ct nourrmturc compris.



- 56 -
Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 5
5.           In these these calculations, it is assumed that teaching staff with five years or
less remaining service before retirement need to be replaced and that six of the eight
expatriates in the present technical colleges will be retained to help implement in-plant
training because of their particular experience in this area. Under these assumptions there
will be a surplus of seven technical staff (workshop instructors) overall. However, a major
retraining effort is planned to prepare replacements for retiring staff and to instructors
for new specializations. Reductions in technical staff will result from the anticipated more
efficient use of practical facilities and because part of practical training is taking place
in industry.  The requirements of general subject teachers are calculated to be 21 as against
34 at present, because of a drastic reduction in general subjects in the reformed curriculum.
The reduction in teaching staff will have as a consequence a rise in the trainee/teacher
ratio from 9.2 at present (114 teachers for 1048 trainees) to 13.7 in the reformed system.
6.           The number of non-teaching staff in 1989 was 118 of whom 68 were in the technical
lyc6es. The remaining 50 non-teaching staff which corresponds roughly to the number needed
in the technical colleges. The functions of the posts they occupy, however, do not correspond
to those required by the reformed system.  Each RTC will require a nine member non-teaching
staff to operate properly: director, chief of workshops, regional counsellor, accountant,
secretary, storekeeper, maintenance technician, watchman ana driver. According to the
mission's estimates, the additional needs are: 7 regional counsellors (including the one for
the CNPP), 2 accountants, 2 secretaries, 1 storekeeper, 4 maintenance technicians, 1 watchman
and 1 driver. The positions to be removed are mainly worker posts in service and production
units.
7.           In addition, there will be in-service upgrading/updating training of instructors.
This program will be repeated for the same staff at regular intervals at the CNPP. The
training will consist of three parts as follows: attachments to Togolese businesses for
acquisition/updating of industrial experience and better understanding of the labor market
and work place (two months for 69 instructors); pedagogical training/updating including
exposure to the new modular programs and the trades testing certification program (one month
for 69 instructors) provided by the inspectors to be trained within the framework of this
project; and technical upgrading/updating (three months for 29 instructors) by CNPP teachers
trained in the above sub-component. Cost information and training schedules are included
below.
8.           The role of CNPP.  The CNPP is expected to play a predominant role in the
restructured system. In addition to being the apex institution for in-service upgrading
training in the industrial sector working directly with industry, it will be: fi) the pilot
center for intervention in the urban informal sector which includes trAinino of
apprenticeship counsellors and instructors and apprenticeship masters; and Iii) the center
for instructor upgrading (and eventually initial training).
Timetable
TRAINING FORNNR-TEACHING STAFF
1990       1991         1992
Training tours for              3             3            3
directors (# per year)
Training tours for              3            3             3
workshop chiefs (t per year)
In-house training               3            3             -
for trainers (# per year)
Training tours for                            3            3
trainers (continuation of above training)
Training tours for               3           2             2
regional advisors (# per year)
9.           Costs. Training costs are summarized in the following tables. The CNPP will be
provided with-ine necessary equipment (projectors, photocopiers audio-visual aids,
reproduction equipment), furniture and materials for the instaliation of a pedagogical unit
within the center.



- 57 -
Annex 3.3
Republiq1e Teololoo                                        Page 4 of 5
Reatructuratlon do I enoalgnmant technique at de
la formtion profetlonnaelle
Table 201. Formation eu corps d "cadroure deo etbllgeemnts ETFP-
D0ai led Coat Tabl-
CFA
Breakdeon of Totale Inel.Cont.
*                               Oi~~~~~~   ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~           ~~uoatlty  Unit Cost  UST
Unlt  1990 1991 19S2 199S Total       1990-93        F Eth      Local     Tez        To"ta
T. iVESINVT COST
A. Repcloa ches data b.
Exper e rlinduatriel (1)   H_x-mol)       0.0  S.8  8.8  8.8  11.S        7261        85167.47      0.00      0.00  85167.4?
Dopllcomnta ONp.Induat. <2> Alir-retour   0.0  8.0  8.0  3.0  9.0       s51oo1       22507.16      0.00      0.00  2807.10
Recycles* pdegogiqueeo 8)  HommePolo      0.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  9.0        1452502      86267.95      0.00      0.00  560267.9s
Deplacenet r*cyc.po. <2) Aller-retur   0.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  9.0            510OO1      22507.16      0.00      0.00  22807.16
Froation geatlon etab. <(  Hom>eu-_olo    0.0  8.0  J.0  J.0  9.0        1452802      56267.95      0.00      0.00  66267.95
D ploame_ta form-seot. <2> Aller-rftour   0.0  9.0  8.0  3.0  9.0         6S1O01      22507.18      0.00      0.00  22507.18
Sub-Teot I                                                                            215224.92      0.00      0.00 215224.92
B. Recyclgo heof. troux
Experienee industriell( <(1  HAme-olc     0.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  9.0         726251      28188.99      0.00      0.00  28188.99
DOplaoementa exp.r.lndua. <2)Atllr-rotour   0.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  9.0       S61001      22507.1S      0.00      0.00  22507.18
Recyclag  pedgogquea (8) Homme-mo         0.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  9.0        1452502      66267.95      0.00      0.00  56267.95
Deplacemeta recyc.ped*. (2) Aller-retour   0.0  J.0  J.0  8.0  9.0        Si10        22SO7.16      0.00      0.00  22501.18
Sub-T*" I                                                                                 S129416.29  0.00     0.00  129416.29
C. Recyciase den for_mturo
Formatlon technlqu (1)     Home-sole      0.0  9.0  9.0  0.0  16.0        848601      26488.79      0.00      0.00  26499.79
DoolPoents pour etag.a <(> AI lar-ratour   0.0  3.0  8.0  0.0  6.0        290500       786s.00      0.00      0.00   7858.00
Sub-Total                                                                              88846.79      0.00      0.00  8864.79
0. Forea.enaei I lIura rognx
Stage tfchn.ot lI sion (7)   Ho-olo       0.0  18.0  12.0 12.0 42.0       848601      62677.96      0.00      0.00  62677.96
Doplocment conseill-ure (6)Allor-rotour   0.0  8.0  2.0  2.0  7.0         290600      6705.27       0.00      0.00   8708.27
Sub-Total                                                                             71303.22       0.00      ).00   71386.2°
E. Equipement peda.CNPP
Retroprojectour            Unite          0.0  2.0  1.0  0.0  8.0         726261      9188.86       0.00      0.00   9188.68
Projecteur dlspo.          Unite          0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0         464601      1924.60       0.00      0.00   1924.40
Lot ep.video *voc monit.    Lot           0.0  2.0  1.0  0.0  8.0        1162002     14622.17      0.00       0.00  14622.17
Photocoplor                Unite          0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0        2324004      9623.02       0.00      0.00   962S.02
Ron o                      Unite          0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0         871501     s860.63        0.00      0.00   3j00.68
Eeorn projoction           Unite          0.0  2.0  2.0  0.0  4.0          40670       6S6.?7       0.00      0.00    686.75
Re lure et agraphage       Lot            0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0         5001      2406.76       0.00      0.00   2406.75
Maa ;cote                  Unite          0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0         290600      1202.86       0.00      0.00   1202.68
Sub-Total                                                                             48212.66       0.00      0.00  48212.65
F. Mobiller pour CNPP (poda)
Dotation (rangemnt etc)    Forfaitaire    0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  1.0        1185s56       3426.20   1819.60      0.00   4747.E0
Totel INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                      496512.07    1819.60      0.00 497831.67
M. RECURRENT COSTS
-__------------
A. Coneouxable CIPP (Pod*)
materials pedagolqu.       Detaton/.ole  8.5 12.0 12.0  12.0  89.5         462         7613.12      0.00      0.00   7818.12
Total RECUIRW  COSTS                                                                          7818.12      0.00       0.00   768.12
Total                                                                                    504826.19   1819.60       0.00 a   4OS4.79
<1> Voyage d etude (Luxambouri) avec etee dans entreprloe  pour 5 oe.
<2) Aller/reour an Europe pour che_q  particip at
8) ReycIage done In f*oratlon modulalre av e attech_ent aux CFP (Europe)
4).Formation en edeinlitretion dee etab.fore.prof. en Eureo
(5) Stage reglortux da 8 ole pour 6 persona (CNPP)
(6) aill eto. regIon
(7) Consel I laur r;egonaux stge de 6 mole pour 7 peraons
7/14/1990  18:02



- 58 -
Annex 3.3
Page S of 5
Rapablque Tegolaise
R.etructuratton de I l_eirm.nt techalqn et de
la feormtion ero eteonn to
Tuble 202. Foration et reepoaga dle Instructeura dw etebli. UP
Detal:ed Cast T*bl*
CPA
Ereakdown ot Total. Incl.Cont.
Quantity               Unit Cost                       U#
Unit  1900  1001  1902  10"  Total    19-OS             F.Excil    Local     Tnx        Toel
1. NVWESTWT COSTS
A. Fe.bnItlel/elimsnt.
Spec._eman.auto leer (6>  Pour mooire  16.0  16.0  15.0   0.0  46.0             0          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Spec._ch.dbe_el <6(       Pour emoire   e.0   6.0   8.0   0.0  12.0             0          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Speeut,e *lectrleit. (5>   Pour amoire   6.0   s.0   0.0   0.0  12.0            0          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Spec.euto olluetleeton (5) Pour amoi ra   0.0   9.0   0.0   0.0   9.0           0          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Spec.mach.englaee         Hom-aol*       0.0   8.0   0.0   0.0   6.0        84201       0200.71      0.00      0.00   2e0.71
Spec. Nera bordx          Hamme* is      0.0   6.0   6.0   o.0  16.0        848601     27008.62      0.00      0.00  2r708.02
Spec. Ceroeerle peinture   Hame*-ol*     0.0  80.0  18.0  12.0  60.0        846801     08207.60      0.00      0.00  80997.80
Spec. Iloctronique        Noemeto-       0.0  18.0  88.0  16.0  72.0        846601    108021.80      0.00      0.00 108021.80
Spec. Froid el ms.       HNaee-Mlo       0.0  18.0  86.0  10.0  72.0        848601    106021.80      0.00      0.00 100021.80
Spec. aech. hydraulique   HN,-e_oelo     0.0   9.0   0.0   0.0   9.0        848601     12991.07      0.00      0.00   12991.07
Spec. Sculpture           NONeN-m.o      0.0   9.0   0.0   0.0   9.0        848601     12991.07      0.00      0.00  12001.07
Spec. potteri. industrial   HoNm-aol.    0.0   8.0   0.0   0.0   8.0        348601      0660.71      0.00      0.00   860.71
Spec. creature artlatque   HIom-eot.    0.0   9.0   0.0   0.0   9.0         84601      12991.07      0.00      0.00  12991.07
Frei* daplancmnte <1>     Al ler-retour   0.0  10.0   6.0   8.0  19.0       290600     28428.10      0.00      0.00  23423.10
Sub-Total                                                                              411786.60      0.00      0.00 411766.80
. Perlectionnemsnt ifntru.
St5.e entrprise  Togo (2) Hoee-ol.    0.0  68.0  40.0  40.0 188.0            71178     42066.42      0.00      0.00  42066.42
$taoge pedagique (8>      H1om-ois       0.0  28.0  23.0  28.0  69.0        14S250     431*0.76      0.00      0.00  43180.76
Stages technique <4       Hommep-ci      0.0  80.0  S0.0  27.0  87 0        145260     64820.16      0.00      0.00  64820.16
Sub-Tote I                                                                              8S962S.S      0 00      0.00  1J9S2S6S4
Tote I INVESTSNT COSTS                                                                       661292.14      0.00      0.00 661292.14
Total                                                                                     561292.14       0.00      0.00 551292.14
(1) BIlolt eco. rcgiotnux
(2) Stcgee n entrprie pour 2 mtOl pour 69 Instructouro
(8) Stages pedgogiques en Teo v"c *pec. payCe-pedagoguc
.4) Stae techniquse en Teo
SS> Projet CTZ
7/14/1990 16:02



- 59 -
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 8
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LE FONDS NATIONAL D'APPRENTISSAGE DE FORMATION ET DE
PERFECTIONNEMENT PROFE55IONNELS
(The National Training Fund)
1.             Introduction.   One of the strategies adopted by many developed and developing
countries to address the frequent problem of a lack both of funds and of external efficiency in the
vocational training system (i.e. the mismatch between training and employment) is the establishment
of a special fund financed by mandatory contributions from firms in the modern private sector (which
become the direct beneficiaries of training programs).  Such a system enables the funds available
for training to be redirected toward the firms that are the largest consumers of vocational training;
it also facilitates the introduction of an incentives system allowing resources to be allocated
according to labor market needs, on a flexible basis.
2.              In Togo a vocational training tax is therefore levied on all modern private sector
e-mployees (it thus excludes the government and parapublic sector, as well as nonprofit private
enterprises).  The tax is 1% of the payroll and until December 1988 was paid directly to the
Treasury.  Since that time the proceeds of the tax have been placed in a special account at the
Treasury for future use by the METFP.  Partial reimbursement of the tax was envisaged for firms
that could show, by means of substantiating documents, that they had incurred expenditure on training
their personnel.  However, this proposal has not been implemented and most private employers in Togo
probably regard the vocational training tax as just another tax, yielding no benefits in terms of
promoting vocational training.  In addition  the tax reimbursement Procedures are administratively
rather complicated while the firms that might benefit from any reimbursement mechanism are, as the
evidence from a number of other countries shows, the largest firms, which would in any event have
had to 3ngage in vocational training regardless of the tax reimbursement incentive.
3.             The project to be implemented in Togo with the assistance of the World Bank and other
donors consists of introducing a rational incentives system using the vocational training tax, which
will make it possible to introduce vocational training programs more closely related to labor market
needs   as  identified  by the Training and Employment Observatory  (OEF).   Consequently,  the
administration of the FNAFPP has been modified in order to put more emphasis on its role in promoting
vocational training and deciding the allocation of resources in light of identified lebor market
needs. The Fund will finance subprojects submitted by vocational training establishments, employers'
associations or individual employers, and labor unions for vocational training programs.   The
resource allocation criteria have been developed in light of three principles, namely relevance to
labor market needs, training content, and cost. The criteria used by the Fund will be adjusted each
year in light of data provided by OEF.
4.              The principal stqaes of subproject elaboration.  Six stages can be  identified for
the subprojects to be submitted for tinancing:
(i)    Project concept:  This may come from a variety of sources:  public institutions
professonal rganitions, private associations or consultants. An indicative list of
projects, a project preparation guide and a standard form, drawn up and disseminated by DERP,
could provide guidance to project promoters and could be given wide publicity through the
media, seminars, etc.
(ii)   Preliminary design:  The project could be prepared by the Executive Secretariat with
support from specialized technical services or private consultants (a commission on approved
projects not exceeding 5% of the total cost).   Use could be made at this stage of the
preinvestment line of credit especially for projects of a certain size. A minimum level
of technical preparation wili be required before the pro4ect is submitted for approval. A
project guide will  be prepared,  and only  those projects  conforming  to  its overall
reuuirements will be presented to the management committee. This guide and the standard form
will be widely distributed.  When execution of a subproject requires assistance from a
private training entity, the approval of this orgiAnization will be required.
(iii) APProval ohase: The manaqement committee will decide on the project submitted by the
executive secretariaT on the basis of the criteria adopted. The management committee will
meet four times a year to examine the projects put forward.  The criteria, of which an



- 60 -
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 8
initial list is attached, will be periodically updated, in light particularly of the progress
made by OEF; the Executive Secretariat will propose two new sets of criteria to the
Management Committee, which will select one and submit it to the World Bank for approval.
The first review of criteria will be made '8 months after project start-up; subsequently they
will be reviewed annually in conjunction with the Bank. The criteria will be laid down in
a decision by the Minister of Technical Education and Vocational Training.
(iv)   Final eroJect desiqn:  The Directorate of Common Affairs or private consultants will
ensure that the Fund criteria are observed, so that the executive secretariat is not
overloaded.
(v)    ProJect execution and suvervision:   These tasks will be handled by specialized
technical directorates, or could be subcontracted to consultants, training centers, etc.
(vi)   Project evaluation and audit:   These tasks will be directed by the management
committee using consultants and questionnaires distributed at each stage.  OEf could be
requested by DERP to carry out follow-up studies on certain selected subprojects.
5.             This detailed procedure will only be applied to projects of a certain size  for
projects under this threshold (for example, CFAF 10 milliop) a more streamlined  rocedure wi I be
adopted using the standard form; the chairman of the management committee will declde on the project
on the basis of technical advice from the executive secretariat.
Project oreparation auide
(to be completed bv gERP)
1      Proiect promoter:
-       Identity:  Public or private institutions, professional organizations;
-      Training experience and activities already carried out;
-      Training budgets over the past two years;
-      Number of trainees over the last two years;
-      Current training activities.
2.      Preliminary preparation of the oroposed activity
-      Sector of intervention;
Skills and occupations involved;
=      Nature  of  the  action:  e.q.  improving  the  return  on  existing  arrangements,
establishment of a new training structure.
3.     Justification of the action and analysis of demand
-      Methodology used to analyze demand;
-      Demand of firms or institutions;
-      Comparison with existing training capacity.
4.     Objectives of the orovosed action and results expected
-      To improve the firm's productivity;
-      To train young people and facilitate entry into active life
-      Adapt the work force profile following restructuring of a f3rm.
5.     Target Population
-      Profile and number-
-      Current status:  a ready employed, seeking first job, etc..
6.      Scale of the operation



- 61 -
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 8
7.      Imnlementation Procedure and schedule
Schedule
Tasks to be performed during each stage
8.      Costs
-      Capital costs
Recurrent costs
9.      Financing plan
-      Self-financing
-      Assistance requested from the Fund
-      Other participation
10.     Instruction
-      Mode and levels of aeneficiary recruitment
-      Profile of participants
-       Duration of the training
-      Training location:  percentage of training time spent in the firm
-      Content of the training:  modules or consolidated
-       Instruction method:  course, case studies, practical exercises.
11.    Tvyes of follow-up Planned
6.              In the financial appraisal of projects it will be necessary to ensure that current
rules are considered; for example, per diem rates during practical training periods should take
account of current rates at the Eyad6ma Foundation. For private projects the Fund will only finance
capital expenditure, which will be repaid over the life of the project, i.e. three years.
7.             Subproiect selection criteria.  The selection criteria will be updated periodically
on the basis of information from OEF. Three kinds of criteria are proposed, viz. economic, financial
and pedagogic.
SELECTION CRITERIA
A.      Economic Criteria
1.     Training/emplovment match
This criterion will be measured in light of OEF results, which will classify the kinds
of qualifications required into four groups, according to whether the market shortage
is severe, moderate or nonexistent, or whether there is a surplus.
-      severe shortage         25 points
-      moderate shortage       10 points
-      no shortage              0
-      surplus                 -10 points
2.      Priority sector
This criterion is intended to favor applications falling within priority development
areas of Togo's economy.   This list will be prepared by the Higher Council on
Vocational Training and updated each year.
-      top priority sector   10 points
-       low priority sector    5 points
-      nonpriority sector       0 points
3.      Importance of demand
This criterion is intended to favor projects responding to heavy training demand from
economic agents. The weighting will vary according to the nature of the activity;
if a permanent training or upgrading program is involved, the number of points is



- 62 -
Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 8
linked to the number of candidates proposed for training:
-      less than five trainees        -10 points
-       less than 10 trainees           0 points
-      more than 10 trainees           10 points
Where a pre-employment training program is involved, the number of points allocated
is linked to the number of in-service training positions offered by employers. These
places must be confirmed by letters of intent from the employers. The allocation of
points follows the same rule.
4.      The existina training capacitv in the subsector
The purpose of this criterion is to favor projects that attempt to adapt existing
training to meet new needs  as compared to projects providing new training, although
such projects will naturally be preferred to projects that merely duplicate existing
arrangements.   This criterion is therefore intended to encourage flexibility in
trainlng in light of changing needs.
Weighting:
-      project that converts existing training         10 points
-      new but not redundant project                    5 points
-      redundant project                                0 points
B.      Pedagogical Criteria
5.      Pedagogical characteristics of the project
This criterion is designed to favor projects using modules as opposed to those
adopting a more traditional approach.
Weighting:
-      modular project                 5 points
-      nonmodular project              0 points
6.     Duration of modules
This criterion complements the preceding one so as to prevent the concept of modules
from being aligned with the school year, which would deprive the modular approach
of most of its benefit. The weighting will vary according to whether pre-employment
or permanent training is involved.
Weighting: (pre-employment training)
_      c six-month module:             10 points
-      six to twelve-month module       5 points
-      > twelve-month module            0 points
Where permanent training is concerned these periods are multiplied by two. A minimum
of 30 nours is required fo- any training activity; there are no exceptions to this
requirement.
7.     Alternation
This criterion is designed to encourage a "dual" approach by alternating training
periods with practical experience in firms.
Weighting:
-      > 40% of time spent in firm:                    10 points
between 20 and 40% of time spent in firm        5 points
between 10 and 20% of time spent in firm        0 points
-      < 10% of time spent in firm                    -10 points
C.      Financial Criteria
8.      Hourly unit costs
This criterion is designed to favor projects where costs are best controlled. The



- 63 -
Annex 3.4
Page 5 of 8
cost unit proposed is the trainee/hour, and therefore the project submitted must
calculate this cost. To do this requires that the total cost of the proposed training
be calculated (operating costs only). The cost of the training to be given to each
participant shou I be indicated and then multiplied by the number of trainees. The
resulting total cost is then divided by the total number of trainee hours. Given
the cost of pedagolical inputs in Togo, costs exceeding CFAF 100 an hour for service
sector training and CFAF 150 an hour for industrial training will be regarded as high.
weiahtin       co:
-      hourly cost < 100 or 150 CFA  10 points
-  hourly cost > 100 or 150 CFA   O points
9.     Co-Financina
This criterion is designed to encourage the search for co-financing in order to favor
the dual approach and expand the opportunities for support from the Fund. If all the
projects are 50% co-financed, twice as many projects can be supported than if all are
inanced 100%.
Weiahting:
If the percentage of total costs financed from sources other than the Fund is:
-   ~over 25%:                 10 points
between 15 and 25%      5 points
-      between 10 and 15*       0 points
-      less than 10%          -IC points
10.    Capital cost and repayment of capital
This criterion is designed to control capital costs so as to minimize waste, and in
particular to prevent the Fund from financing construction for projects of short
duration, or equipment whose useful life exceeds the training period proposed. This
criterion applies only to projects submitted by private institutions, which does not
mean that Public institutions are to be encouraced to waste money. However there
is no intention to prevent capital costs being financed, where necessary, from fund
resources. The principle proposed is as follows: only that part of the capital cost
that will be amortized during the life of the training project can be subsidized.
For example, if a training project extends over three years and requires the purchase
of equipment whose expected life is 10 Years, then only three tenths of the cost of
this equipment can be taken into consideration in project appraisal. No weighting
is proposed, since the principle must apply to all prosects.  for projects submitted
by public institutions, the justification must be different:   the project must
demonstrate that the capital costs incurred will benefit a sufficient number of
cohorts of trainees so that they can be amortized.
8.             Administration.  The National Training Fund will be administered by a management
Committee chaired by the finister of Technical Education and Vocational Trainina. This committee
will include representatives of other ministries and of employers' and employees organizations in
Togo. The committee will be responsible for managing and supervising all Fund activities and for
approving its annual budget, and it will also take the final decisions regarding the selection of
subprojects. Its ex-officio members will be:
-      the Minister of the Economy and Finance or his representative;
-      the Minister of Planning or his representative;
-      a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture and Industry;
-      a representative of CNTT-
-      a re resentative of the thamber of Trades;
-      the girector of Common Affairs of METFP.
9.             The management committee may also incorporate, on an ad hoc basis, for consultation,
any person whose position or skills may be required for the analysis of items on its agenda. The
responsibilities of the management committee are to:
-      establish Fund operating procedures and modalities;
-      recruit personnel for the Executive Secretariat according to procedures defined in
advance, approve the budget, decide on project dossiers submitted by the executive
secretariat, and approve the schedule of activities,
-      oversee the activities of the Executive Director and decide on the extension of his



- 64 -
Annex 3.4
Page 6 of 8
appointment;
-      analyze balance sheets, progress reports, the project pipeline and any other documents
relating to the performance of the executive secretariat, and discharge the executive
director.
10.            The Executive Secretariat consists of:
-      an Executive Director,
-      a chief accountant,
-      an administrative secretary and support staff.
11.            Its main functions will consist of mobilizing the partners in the vocational training
system so that it can prepare subprojects for submission to the Fund.  Its responsibilities will
therefore be both to promote Fund activities, in order to support the establishment of this project,
and to assist applicants, particularly in the informal sector, to fill out correctly the forms that
will give them access to the Fund. It will be responsible for seeing that the applications submitted
to the management committee conform to the criteria that the committee will use to make its
decisions, and also for preparing recommendations for the committee's decision. To this end it will
help to prepare the terms of reference and contracts required for execution of the subprojects
selected by the Fund. It will also ensure that subprojects are executed in timely fashion and that
the necessary disbursements of Fund resources are made diligently and in line with the plan already
approved. This last task entails the administrative responsibility for preparing regular reports
on Fund operations.
12.            Financial manaqement procedures for the National Trainina Fund.  A fund known as the
"National Training Fund' has already been established in the Treasury (account 902.14).1  The
proceeds of the payroll tax (1%) are paid into this account.
13.            This account is a "suspense account" whose proceeds will be transferred to a bank
account to be opened at a commercial bank. The pamaster will be the chairman of the management
committee, while the accounts will be prepared by the accountant to the executive secretariat.
14.            This account will operate according to the procedures defined by:
-       the law establishing the National Training Fund;
-      the decree defining the composition and operations of the management committee;
-       the decision establishing the eligibility criteria;
-      the bylaws of the Fund, which must specify its actual disbursement procedures:
release of tranches, substantiating documents, etc.
15.            Disbursement of World Bank resources would be made over a period of time in accordance
with Bank procedures and on the basis of physical activities; a revotving fund could facilitate
payment operations.
16.            Cost and financina.  Tables showing the financing of the Hanagement Committee and
Executive Secretariat o- the National Training Fund are included below.  The project will provide
microcomputers and reproduction equipment, office equipment and supplies, and vehicles. It is also
planned that the project will finance the remuneration costs of the Fund's Executive Secretariat,
namely the salaries of the director,  the chief accountant  the financial controller and the
administrative secretary. In addition a certain amount of sma)l-scale ad hoc support (particularly
in the data processing area) will be financed by the project.
1      See instruction of the Treasurer-Paymaster of 8/8/1988 02/CAB



- 65 -
Annex 3.4
Page 7 of 8
Reubli" Toolsioo
Re"truturstlon de I .naaignOat techanu Ot do
Is formtlon protessotmntlle
Table 801. CoaSt. d. Getton de Fondus Nattonl d Approatlao, de
Foration at de P.rfctloa t Proeeaoeis
Dtalled Coat Table
CfA
freakdown of Totals Iacl.Cont.
Diustity        Untt Coat                      WJ
- _                              -
unit  mWo 91-01 Total    100093         F.Exch    LoCal    Taxes    Tota l
5. INVESTNT COSTS
A. ureau. ud reunion
Sells                 Pour motr    -    -    -              -          0.00      0 00     0 00      0 00
llob1lIer             Pour _oir      -    -    -            -          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Sub-Total                                                               0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total DVESTm    COSTS                                                          000      o.eo      0.oo     o.oo
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Fraie de fonctionaman,t Dotation      1.0  5.0  16.0       S14S0         0.00   8615.45     0.00  S616.45
B. Jeton do praee          Forfaitaire    -    -    -            -          0.00  1?248.72     0.00 17246.72
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                         0.00 20764.17       0.00 2064.17
Total                                                                       0.00 20764.17      0.00 20784.17
7/14/1990 160os



- 66 -
Annex 3.4
R b"l lqeTeplolce                                            Page 8 of 8
Ratructurtlon de I  1n_lneas.t   ,,niu                                      P     8 de
la 4toratlon pt eao"ouel I.
Tble 802. SeCrtriat Technlqu di FlWP.°
Detailed Coat Table
CFA
Srakdon of Totals Incl.Cont.
Q"ntity             Unit Coct                       USS
Unit   100  1001 92-U  Total        1S98          F.Exch     Loal      Taxes      To"al
1. I_VESTUI COStS
A. EquilmuI de SWM.E.c
Po*teI clro-rtontwo.tiqu, (l)Lot          1.0   2.0   0.0   8.0       2906005     858.79        0.00      0.00  am.7"
Crand. p0ttoplour         unite           1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       2324004      9001.00      0.0o      0.00   0261.80
acbin. repro (rone.)      Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0        871501      8478.16      0.00      0.00   8478.18
Sub-Total                                                                          48869.78      0.00      0.00  486.78
a. 1obil*er
Mrbill.r di e@tlon        Lot             1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       1468800      5209.77    e68.21      0.00   S64.06
Mobilit autree            Lot             8.0   0.0   0.0   s.0       1175120     12508.44   1572.51      0.00  14075.59
Sub-Total                                                                          171.90       27.7       0.00  10040.08
C. Vehicul..
8r.ak Scv                 Un*it           1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0       $77W       0 15080.4      0.00      0.00  1S05.48
$Orlin. legr              Unite           1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0        4860       1822.71       0.00      0.00   8802.71
Sub-Tote                                                                                          . 2848.14  0.0  0.00  26043.14
D Locaux de twrlon
LocatIon *ell-            tortalttir      1.0   1.0   1.0   4.0        241784      2145.08   1807.01      0.00   4152.04
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                                                     07871.1   4034.74       0.00  101406.88
tl. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Peraonnel Sec.Exacutif
Diroctaur                 Hhin-eaoe       3.0  12.0  12.0  89.0        411840         0.00  80482.76      0.00  6U82.76
CheT coaptable            Home-aln        8.0  12.0  12.0  $9.0        164786         0.00  27881.10      0.00  27381.10
Controleur *Inanclor      Nome-mos        8.0  12.0  12.0  89.0        1647386        0.00  27881.10      0.00  27)81.10
Secrletr. direction       Nome-oa*        3.0  12.0  12.0  80.0         66628         0.00   0412.25      0.00   04i2.26
Sub-Total                                                                              0.00 182627.22      0.0O  132827.22
D. Poreonnol Seuteln
Socrotaire atenodactylo   Home-mols       8.0  12.0  12.0  80.0         te028         0.00   9412.25      0.00   0412.21
Chautfeur                Hi_e-oole        3.0  12.0  12.0  89.0         *7066         0.00   6160.76      0.00   0160.75
Autre toutien             i_-eoe ls       8.0  12.0  12.0  89.0         87066         0.00   0160.76      0.00   6160,75
Sub-Tote l                                                                             0.00  21738.75      0.0   21783.75
C. Appuls an *xp.rtlas
ltormatique (2>           H_ooesio         .0   2.0   0.0   6.0        so8080         0.00   6118.87      0.00   6118.87
Divers ,esperti. (8)      Home-aols       2.0   1.5   1.6   6.6       81s00os5    88808.6       0.00      0.00  88898.59
Deplacemnt appul.         Aller-r-tour    2.0   2.0   2.0   8.0       S61001      18748.16      0.00      0.00  18743.16
Per diem *pnul            llama-o;ur     60.0  42.0  42.0 186.0         46261         0.00  a49ss.88      0.00   49008.08
Sub-Total                                                                         10216.75  41117.7-0      0.00  148264.45
D. Coramamblea
Consomble- bureau         Dotatlon/mola   8.0  12.0  12.0  89.0         48847      4682.57   86t.62       0.00   0218.19
Catrat d'ea,etlea PC      iotetion        2.0   2.0   2.0   8.0       1228610         0.00  4102.85       0.00  4102.5
F.atloaaemat -e - l   onee  Dotatiea/.le    -     -     -      -           -          0.00  80416.02      0.00  80416.92
ub-Total 4I2.57                                                                                                 -;7614.  0.00   778.46
Total RECENT Csts                                                                        10760.81 270648.67       0.00 877412.88
Total                                                                                 204140.46 274678.81      0.00 47816.76
(1) MUlro-oedinatar, le_* m1  , ondulur, at loic-leo
(2) Spaci*llt national
(8) Spesiliete lnternatleonau
7/14/100 lO Ot



- 67 -
Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 9
TOGD
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
EXAMPLES OF TRAINING FUND SUB-PROJECTS
A.           Reform/Rehabilitation of Trainina Centers
1.          Background and obiectives. The programs of technical colleges and lyc6es in Togo
are practically tne same as tnose tound in the metropolitan French traditional system. A
large Proportion (some 40 per cent) of general subjects are of little or no relation to the
specialization eursued. In addition, the selection of specializations offered at any
particular institution are often irrelevant to current labor market needs in the neighboring
area. The sub-projects under consideration will attempt to improve the labor market
performance of the training establishments through the introduction of new training programs.
2.           The central objective of the Government's reform of training in Togo is to
develop a demand driven system which is responsive to labor market needs. These sub-projects
will help fulfill this requirement b  introducing changes in the METFP training institutions
to enable them to provide training which is more relevant to local employment realities. This
will require changes in the method of training, in the kinds of training provided and in the
relationship between the training center and its environment.
3.           The actions proposed under these sub-projects include: (i) introduction of dual
training approaches in the training institutions; (ii) consolidation of existing facilities
through the conversion of Technical Colleges (CETs) into Regional Training Centers (RTCs):
these centers will offer both basic training and modular specialized options res onaing to
regional requirements; (iii) direct involvement of the community, including local employers,
in the training process.
4.           Introducina udual" training aDProaches. Dual training consists of alternating
practical work in the training institution and the business or industrial enterprise with
courses on theory. Dual p& rams will be introduced through all sub-projects reviewed here.
Each training program will begin with a basic training program lasting two or three years.
This will lead to spialization modules which will vary with the trade from six months to
one year. For all specialization modules  50 percent of training time will be in industry.
The first year program is common for each family of trades (general mechanics, maintenance
mechanics, auto-mechanics building construction, and carpentry/cabinet making) and has
already been prepared within the framework of the UNDP/ILO project "support to technical
education". .he basic structure to be used for subsequent years has been prepared during the
appraisal mission. The emerging pattern is shown in the table below.
Patterns of Revised Skill Traininc Programs
(college level)
Workshop Practice          Related1t        In U     Yurslvear
In Center   In Enterprise       Theory       GeneralI-    Total
Subjects     Hours
1st Year      480               -             160          320          9W
2nd Year       300              300           168          192           960
3rd Year       184              480           168          128           960
Total Hours   964               780           496          640          2880
Percentage    34%               27%           17%         22%           100%
1/    Technology of the trade, technical drawing, calculations
Ist year: French, English, the modern world, civics, physical education.
2nd year: French, English, the modern world, civics.
3rd year: French, English.
5.           The practical work in an enterprise is so arranged that 3 second-year students
and 2 third-year students (5 students altogether) will be rotated through each post available
in industry. Concerning the technical lyc6e programs, the present trend of converting
technical baccalaurdat Into technician programs is sound and it has been agreed that it will
continue together with an intensified effort for implementation of the "dual" approach.
6.           Consolidation of facilities.  The consolidation proposal envisages a degree of
specialization for eacn Regional Tralning Center linked to the economic activities in the
area in which the Center is located. Highlights of the consolidation proposal are: (i)
renaming of Consolidated Technical Colleges as Regional Training Centers (RTCs) to emphasize



- 68 -
Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 9
their role  in training  skilled  labor for  local  employment  opportunities;  (ii)  implementation
of the revised training  programs  in all  RTCs;  (ii)  closing  of the Kant&  training center and
opening  of a training  center  in  Louo;  (iv)  replacement of  the unsuitable  church-owned
buildings  of  the  Pya center with  purpose-built  ones;  (v)  shifting  basic specializations  among
existing  centers  and distributing modular specializations  accordingly;  (vi)  providing the
Dapaong training  center with a pilot  unit for  interventions  in rural  areas  in non-
agricultural  activities  conplementary  to the actions of the Ministry  of Rural  Development;
vii) incorporation of a pilot section in CNPP for interventions in the urban informal sector
in Lom6. The below table shows the existing and proposed specializations by center together
with the anticipated enrollments by specia ization.
TOWb 34
RgC- Soc,aiiens bS Can,e no fn,oImtnu
PROJtT Ot CARTE SCOLAIRI
LETAB=s%tS5MP    SPEC(AL(TER         MtTIERS               SPECIALITC$         Durh           e
ACTUCLLUS                                                      (tuO_
CAPACOC        - Mc. auto.      - MttitRS R'RAIUX    - F r       tl       I
Chadtrull                           - stiment   ( 61        )
Coutun -W Bs                                    I S)       12 ram      24   40   10
- fdctncit'                          - Elee. 0cw   6)        I                             iS,
uslldutmle     - UEnERs DE LA        t"Mnt.lo
MlCA. AUTO.        -d.. t  h.tl* I(p       3          24   ^2   SS
Auto d,a*          I    *n        6    S    S
- Auto - ilectrit I _ec   I an      4    6    6
-t Renst.0" **onp * esu
KANIlT         - MNilloglun
-Terttl
PYA            - M. auto.       - MEnERS DE LA       - MUCS. cdlal Idr        3an        24   72   tI
MECA. AUTO
* '1ang6wt4    -  METltRSi ODU       - 'Iaao.n.              3 ao       24   22 *2 * 2S2
uMttul.fiwt      BATIMEIT           - tlomo                 I a.        12   it   12
Pilomi.                               t                       3an       24   12   S2
art.nltMn
SOKODE           Mtci. auto.    -  itTiras DU        - Mlonn                  3.am       24   72   52
;mdc. gdnh.l.    BATIMENT           - Csl                    I an       12   1i   12
o CS8u6lOnMt n.iaceIan                                                   2      2    1
* ld'cincitt
C Mnuana,fnn                                                                                C00
- tiTirOfERS        - Di4etricllt oitimint   3 am       24   7S   S2
LE'LECTRICITt      - Elkmet,at. otulut e I3an         24   72   St
KPALtI-          Md.. agne.     - METtCtS DC LA   - 44.. Ydlacul. (w          3oen.      24   72 S2
M tt. a*Rtn.   H   tCA. AUO         - Auto - diwa)    1         a              6    6
- Auto - ilecttcalt     Ian               I 6
- Caoa.t - peatu        3on      212           28
- Mec. .ga             Itn o       *     I     I
cilm.st.utwon uto      I a.       i2   i2    i    24t
-METItIS OE LA
MECA. ENTRITiC    - Mdca. usin.            32an       24   72   is
Mee. meatlOn           3wis    21   72 52
Mod. It hroliquw
Atttsar    - YTttR
ARTISTIQUf ET
ARTI5ANALZ         - Potle n         r t   2 5t
(CEf.A.A.)          Pot.n,  ndustn   lI    3 arm       4    to
M404. CdmMMMA                                        9
- sculpm  mW bole       3 am    1
- Ti-   me1              S3 an.           6
-Satili       t          an        *    is
LOWS                            - WlTtS DU  fR       - TGI*M -SUIPw£a
- Thu aion                          24   t2   is
*cnans ot           ;=I"* FI 03
L'ULtCTUoIItQUt   - ldctl  t_lm                 on
(CtliF)            - Sildu   . TV - urn    * I qk.   *       n           tu
M n431138 DU  PaOt oo -           d  dw                 t     i* t t
(Cat"f)             Feeld lAtt4il           * I 4e.
- 13135 MARM)ttU
3r FLUVIAX         - Enig   hors-ow4        S an      is   24
(Camf)
_ma. .                                     n



- 69 -
Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 9
7.          At present, completion of the 8th Grade (5 me) will be the prerequisite for entry
to a program. At a later stage, however, when the student flow through the secondary school
system increases, consideration should be given to raising this requirement to completion of
the 10th Grade (present BEPC level) and reducing the duration of the basic training given in
the RTCs.
8.           Total enrollments in the restructured RTCs will be some 1300, when in full use,
distributed as shown in the table below as against some 1100 at present. However, the number
of student places will be reduced considerably (over 20 per cent). The surplus classroom in
Sokod6 will be used by the adjacent technical lycae while those in RTCs to be rehabilitated
will be converted into special technology rooms or workshops.
Existina and Proposed Numbers of Places in RTCs
Existing           Proposed
Classroom places                990                  300
Workshop/technology room places 552                   914
Total                           1542                UNlZ
9.           The annual output of the programs is expected to increase from some 300 at
present to 340 in the new structure mainly because of increased efficiency--assumed at 85 per
cent for three-year courses; 90 per cent for two-year courses; and 95 per cent for one-year
courses. It is also assumed that part of the output of the two and three-year courses will
provide direct input for the one-year modular specialization courses.
10.         Graduates of the basic training cycle (grade 1 test) and of any modular
specialization (grade 2 or grade 3 test depending on the number and level of modules) will be
eligible to take tests for certification acknowledging completion of training.
11.         The needs in teaching staff for the restructured centers have been calculated and
appear in Annex 3.3.
12.          Linkina the RTCs with the Community.  The basic training system is only part of
the RTC activities. It is expected that major efforts will be devoted to launching training
and u prading prrams directly supported by employers and financed via the National Training
Fund. Tofacill4tate the initiation of such programs, a Regional Counsellor will be attached
to each RTC whose main task will be to develop links with employers and with the community at
large.  Also, a Regional Consultative Committee composed of RTC staff members and employers
will be establishea for each RTC to advise the director on all training activities of the
center, particularly those connected to the modular specializations and to training outside
the basic system.
13.         RTCs will tailor their specific training proqrams to local labor market needs. A
special feature of the Dapaong training center, for exampie, is that it is located in a heavy
transit traffic area which is also an agricultural region; consequently the center has a dual
character with a section for auto-mechanics (specializations in diesel and auto-electricity)
and a section for polyvalent training (metal, wood, construction, electricity) responding to
the specific needs of the rural population. Modular specializations for irrigation
installations and for water pump repairs will also be available. This section will serve as
a pilot center for interventions in the rural areas, including training of special
instructors/counsellors as the need may arise, and provision of 'rural extension services".
To this effect  a light mobile unit will be provided for the center to enable the staff to
reach the rural population directly to provide necessary services combined with training.
Specially trained regional counsellors (one at the experimental stage) will direct the
extension services activities. Similar interventions are envisaged for the urban informal
sector via the CNPP.
14.         There is no doubt that the output of the restructured system--some 340 industrial
graduates per annum -- will be absorbed by the labor market. Commercial courses have been
eliminated from the restructured system as the labor market appears to be saturated with
commercial graduates at this level and nine new industrial specializations have been
introduced n areas in which training was not available so far and for which the demand is
evident. The present difficulties of graduates of certain specializations to obtain
employment are attributed to inadequacies in the present infrastructure and in the teaching
staff and weaknesses in the training rograms. In the restructured system the infrastructure
will be reinforced, the teaching staff will be upgraded, and training programs will be
entirely revised. Of particular importance is the introduction of in-plant training and the
sensitization of the private sector through its direct involvement in the training process.



- 70 -
Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 9
15.           Administration. The administrative decision to consolidate the training centers
has been Made. Tne Itplementation of the new programs themselves, however, is subject to the
scrutiny of the National Training Fund  ansgement Committee. The execution (and financing) of
any additional programs of initial or upgrading training by the RTCs will be contingent upon
approval by the National Training Fund.
16.           Costs and imDlementation schedule. Included below are the detailed cost table for
the implementailn-of the proposed new programs in the six consolidated RTC.
RepublIqu Togolelm
R _aruc  tton de I easala-_ t tochiqe et de
Is ftoemtt.n proeaai.eml l,
Table 601. Co.v.rloo CT D     e Ouf P
Centre pil Sb lntervention rural.
Dt.i led Coa Table
CPA
great.n of Total  r ncl.Cont.
bantity         ulit Coat                       US
unit  108  112-0 Totel         100048       F.Fach     Loua      Taxes     Total
x. IIVESTUBIT COST
A. Rehabilitation
Renovation ba. eat    mg                                                   Om 06.46  1464.41     0.00  21610.80
Mobilier atllera       Lot              -    -    -         -            1007.62   n7680        0.0O    266.8
Sub-Totel                                                                  8686.00  16607.27      0.00  2420S.27
8. equipant
Mir  rurl               Datlon         -    -    -    -           -      161798.78     0.00      0.00 151794.76
echanique Auto         Dtatlon         -    -    -    -           -       S670.24      0.00      0.00  6S870.24
Sub-Total                                                                 166665.03     0.00 0.00 186665.03
C. Unite Mobile
Vebhiule <1)           unite          1.0  1.0  0.0  2.0    522900S      42490.84      0.00      0.00  42490.84
Equipmnt outillaeg)    Lot                  -    -    -           -       7874.06      0.00      0.00   7874.05
Sub-Total                                                                 46004.80       0.00     0.00  4864.60
Total VESTWT  COSTS                                                             24746.92  N1637.27      0.00 262788.19
II. REOJRSJIT COSTS
A. Iateriels conaenablee
Matieral d'oeuvre      Dotation/mole  8.0 12.0 12.0 89.0       97786      7720.96   6064.0s      0.00  16685.00
M.'tri.ls p      ledgqvee    Dotatien  0.0  1.0  1.0  8.0    110602      14254.55      0.00      0.00  14254.66
Fon'ctlonr_mant let    Dotlon/a/lo -i -    -    -    -                       0.00 S8742.46       0.00 S6742.46
Sub-lita I                                                                2107S.49  47706.61      0.00  609S2.01
b. Etudes.'uperuoilon
Architee/engtrer        Forfoltaire    -    -    -    -                .     0.00   8575.18      0.00   3576.18
Total RECURIdT COSTS                                                             21975.49  61261.69     0.00  78267.10
Total                                                                        2841.41  6648.98        0.00 88900.37
(1) 1 veh. pour unite mobile, 1 pour direction/oeoai I tour
7/14/1910 16:04



- 71 -
Annex 3.5
Page 5 of 9
Republiqu Togolala
RBetructuration de I  I9_t toenle et de
la foration  o =      l .
Table 602. R_l_comnt CET PYA en CREFP
Dl lzCeetTable
CFA
eli_hdoun of Total* Intel.Cont.
4antity               Unit Coat                       US
Unit 11010-91   im     1093  Total     100-10        F.mcbh      Local     Te..       ToteS
I. ZNISTMIT COSS
A. Cretiot Inat rcter
Conatrutlon               mg               0.0    0.0  1"0.0  1650.0        o440      1_00695.7  418S78.0a     0.00 604271.96
Conatrction hawgr                          0.0    0.0  2eo.0  260.0        41962       118.29  40061.27        0.OC  50624.58
Sub-Total                                                                             200612.16 464884.84       0.00 6086.51
S. Dotation mebiler
Potatlon cmlt mob.        Dotein            _      _       _                          4611628.0   10110.16     0.00  04S01.97
C. Dotetion Euipment
Umbehnique auto           Lot               -      -       -      -            -      62081.78      0.00       0.00  62031.78
Motiera batlmnat          Lot               -      -       -      -            -      02013.        0.00       0.00  62081.78
Vehicule. (1)             unit.            0.0    1.0    0.0    1.0       4857507     10748.64      0.00       0.00  18748.84
Sub-Total                                                                             142010.20      0.00       0.00 142610.20
Total DIESTMENT COSTS                                                                        8s0646.2e 472494.52      0.00 671840.77
II. RECUIRRIT COSTS
*. Etude. at supervision
Archittect. a Ingenleur    Fortaltaire      -      -       -      -            -          0.00  9U288.67       0.00  06288.57
S. Conacmabloo
Matriel d'oeuvre          Ootation/moei    0.0    0.0   12.0   12.0         97788      2491.27   2807.68       0.00   5878.90
Matriel pedapolque        Ootation         0.0    0.0    1.0    1.0       1108902      49a4.42       0.00      0.00   4984.42
Fonctionnamant veaicule.   Deottionemotc    -      -       -       -                      0.00   9567.41       0.00  90t7.41
Sub-Tote 1                                                                              7416.60   12465.04      0.00  10880.73
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                          7415.9  107703.61       0.00 115119.29
Total                                                                                     406261.94 590190.13       0.00 9680.07
(1> VehicubI pour direction/conaill eur
7/14/1000  16:04



-  72  -
Annex 3.5
Repubbliun Top.l-l.                                          Page 6 of 9
Reatructratlen de I             t.dnnlqnt t ut at dn
to teratlon pr.sl8  is
Table 60. Rda bi ltt loetn/Enslon CEt Sokod.. onc
Detailed Coet YTbl-
CFA
t reakdon  t Toteels Incl.Cent.
*                              IhlF~~~~~~~~~~~Rntlly   unit Cnt                        USe
Unit   10  11   102  10  Tet.              19900-         F.Exoh     Leel T_ese           Tt
x. IWESIT1NT tCOST
A. Intalllation phyFiquI
R.enotton bete.exlatentPosltair.            -         -      -     -            -      46664.09  080J9.07       0.00  144194. 9
Eapalnson bats.        112              0.0  200.0 #20.0   0.0 620.0         64409     0060.06  130981.76      0.00 1916W6.E2
Sub-Toe  I                                                                             10680.06 120321.48        0.00  816861.J8
. ottion Equlpeant
Metier. btiIe          Lot                                         -                    742.27        0.        000  57482.27
ElectrIlcte            Lot               -     -      -      -     -            -       746227        000       0.00  67462.27
Sub-Tote I                                                                             114004.64       0.00      0.00 114924.64
C. Dottion eobliler         Lot              -      -      -     -      -           -       24869.67   9S20.84       0.00  84400.01
P- tElules
Ulnibus transport etud. UniJto         0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         6220000     21661.70       0.00      0.00  21661.78
Sechs 4x4              Unite            0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0        4387607     18043.15       0.00      0.00  16048.15
Sub-Total                                                                               80604.04       0.00      00   8604.04
Ttl  VeSTN   COSTS                                                                            26020.11  2841.77         o.0  624970.67
It. 66CUIREiT COSTS
A. Etudes at supvan.traveua
Arittect at Ingnleur Forfaiteire        -      -      -     -      -            -          0.00  483.70         0.00  48908.79
8. Cen e_m lox
Matriole doeuvre       Dotation/aois   0.0   0.0  12.0  12.0  24.0           97780      4869.40   S658.61       0.00   10653.21
Materials podaoMique   Dtettion        0.0   0.0   2.0   2.0   4.0         1108902     19367.23      0.00       0.00   19#07.2S
Fontlonenment Yehiculea  OoDetion/aoia    -    -      -     -      -            -          0.00  30077.61       0.00  $0977.St
Sub-Tote                                                                                2423       86561.82      0.00  60707.9t5
Totel RECURRENT CTm                                                                            2423       8 66t406.10  O.;  100781.74
Uainumin*m munv
Totel                                                                                      81026.74 824488.87        0.00 684702.61
7/14/1990 16.:0
Repubilque To.olaiel
Reetructuratlen de I *neIgonnment technique at de
la toratioe pr'feteionne lo1
Table 804. Riiplec_ent CET Kpali_e On CREFT
Cobo1 lId Coat Tabil
CFA
br Woemn ot TeuSn Sn"l.Cant.
quentity               Unit Coet                        taSle
UWit   10     1501  1002  10  Total        19900-0        F.Ezc      Local      Tas       Tot a
I. DtWtTI  COSS-
A. Expaeion Iatructure
Cretion atelier           112              0.0  200.0 660.0   0.0 660.0         64409     66421.62 141244.10       0.00 206666.72
b. E     _ipeat atelcre
Meheniqu at oil. auto   Lot                -            -     -                   -     119406.60      0.00       0. W  119406.60
bahnique e.ina            Lot              -      -      -     -      -            -      69708.80      0.00       0.00  59708.80
Carroearl- Plature        Lot              -      -      -     -      -           -       70604.40      0.00       0 00  70604.40
--I,ehnl  d entretlan (1  Lot              -      -      -     -      -           -      296616.t0      0.00       0.00 200616.60
Sub-Toetl                                                                                 5s7230.60      0.00       0. 5o 6720:.60
C. Detltion ebl Ilor           Lot              -      -     -      -      -           -       16007.61    6902.59      0.00  24900.40
0. VYhiculee
8aehe 4x4 esseem          Unite           0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         4857607     16043.15      0.00       0.00  16043.16
Tote  IwEsiENt COSTS                                                                             65703820  146226.76       0.00  606030.00
II. RECWuET COSTS
A. Etude pour OC et equp.
Architect* at Inganleur    Forfaltaire     -      -      -     -      -           -           0.00  81061.67       0.00  810t1.67
S. Cons_mable-
Materiel, d'oeuvre        Dotetlon/oels   0.0   0.0   e.0  12.0  16.0           97786      8676.84   42t0.72       0.00   7066.06
Matriel. Ped9aiques       Dotetion        0.0   0.0   2.0   2.0   4.0         110S002     19867.28      0.00       0.00   19367.23
Fonetio_naet   liculos   Dotetion/sole    -      -      -     -      -           _           0.00  14036.28       0.00  14088.23
SiSTet l                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28042.67   16325.66  0.00  41868.62
Sub-Total                                                                                  2SZ6 ---o   -Z                       i
Tet l REOCUbT COSTS                                                                               23042.87   40377.62      0.00  72420.30
Total                                                                                         681746.66  197604.60      0.00 6708.4
(1) Cotpreme Usina., entretin at hydraulique
7/14/10    1S:05



-73 -
Annex 3.5
Page 7 of 9
Rspbl lque Togolela
ReteuoWftitien gm I *n_ign_ent tehnlqe at de
I formatlon profslonnilI
Table S6. ReIabillt i lt oCn tre ArtleaUt et Arts Mttier Kp.ll_
etailed Cost Table
CPA
Breakdown of Totals ncl..Cot.
Quntlty                Unit Coat                      U08
Unit   1990  1991  1002  im   Toutl       1000-98       F.gzch      Local     Taxes     Ttl
2. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Expalon stollen
bSlment mduitioel    12               0.0  600.0   0.0   0.0 200.0        04400     22791.87  46182.29      0.00   *l7.t
a. Equilpmnt
Ptter. Idtr*l    Lt                          -      -     -      -           -     114924 .4      0 00      0.00 114924.54
C. eotatlen Mobillr      Lot              -      -     -      -     -           -        4800.07   105.0S0      0.00   6.h67
Swbe  4x4 Geasse      Unit.           0.0   0.0   1.0   0.0   1.0       4J57607     16746.84      0.00      0.00  16748.04
Total IVESTMENT COSTS                                                                      160774.42  50541.19      0.00 211815.01
lI. RECUNElT COSTS
A. Etude. xtention
Architeete at Inngnleur Forfaiteir    -     -      -     -      -           -          0.00  10171.74      0.00  10179.74
S. Coneomable-
llitorl.la doeuvre    DotStSln/eoa   0.0   0.0  12.0  12.0  24.0          97780      48W9.40   6683.81      0.00  10558.21
Ibatrl-le pedegoglquea 06tation       0.0   0.0   2.0   2.0   4.0       1108902     19867.23      0.00      0.00  1907.28
Fonotlonnesent VeIculaoeStion/soie     -     -      -     -      -           -          0.00   9567.41      0.00   956T.41
Sub-Tot l                                                                            2428.68  16251.22       0.00  89467.65
Total RECRRENT COST                                                                         24286.6   25480.06      0.00  4067.b59
Totel                                                                                   18E011.05  75972.15      0.00 260898.21
7/14/1900 16:05
Republlq  Togolalee
Rb aructuration de I e _aegSt technique at de
Is formation profeeionn lil
Table 606. Creation CREFP Low
Centre PIlot, pour I industrie et *ewteur formal
Dtil ed Coat Table
CFA
Breekdo etof Totals Incl.Cent.
Quatity                   Unit Coat                    US.
Unit    1990   1I0   1992  198  Tet% l        19900-0    F.Exch       Local      Towns      ToeI
I. 1NVESTIET COSTS
A. Creation nouveau lnt f.
Construction Centre       12              0.0  1800.0 1000.0    0.0 2800.0        64400  26.44   674295.78          0.00  040664.17
B. Dotation Equipenent
Metier du f*r (1)         Lot              -       -      -       -      -           -   11940s6.6       0.00       0.00  119406.6o
Eleetronique              Lot              -       -      -       -      -           -   10011.00        0.00       0.00  190011.00
Frelde                    Lot                  -          -       -      -           -   119406.60       0.00       0.00  110406.60
Muehanule hors-berd       Lot              -       _      _       _      _           _    7904.40        0.00       0.00   79604.40
617428.60      0.00       0.00  517420.80
C. Dotetion Mebilior          Lot               _      _       _      _       _           -    74029.18   29022.72       0.00  108681.04
S. Vebiculee
DVniebu 16 pses           Unit.           0.0    0.0    1.0    0.0    1.0        522000   22406.20       0.00       0.00   22496.20
Bweh 4d4 _esene           Unite           0.0    1.0    0.0    0.0    1.0       4867507   10048.15       0.00       0.00   10048.16
Break KYv                 Unit.           0.0    0.0    1.0    0.0    1.0        8770506   16247.26      0.00       0.00   14247.26
66786.61      0.00       0.00   66766.61
915412.,7  O6810.45       0.00 1518781.28
It. RECiURET COSTS
A. Etudee at supervision
Architect     ingenur      orteltir        -       -      -       -      -           -        0.00  121887.58        0.00  121867.58
S. Cons_mmables
Mst.rl.la doeuvre         otation/ss    0.0    0.0   12.0    12.0    24.0         9778    4489.40    588.1           0.00   10558.21
Materiele pedagoiques     potetion        0.0    0.0    2.0    2.0    4.0        1108902   1867.28. 0.00             0.00   19867.28
FonctonneSme nt vehiculen   Dotetion/sle   -       -      -       -      -                    0.00   88807.98        0.00   88807.68
24288.6s   a9401.69       0.00   "728.82
24286.63  160879.22       0.00  105115.05
su - m -_
98649.41  76419?.67        0.00 1708,47.06
(1> Tlelril, serrurerle, aoudure, tuyeutee at fore
7/a4/1190 16:06



- 74 -
Annex 3.5
Page 8 of 9
B.           Work ExDerience Internshics for Training Center Graduates.
1.           Introduction. The Togolese authorities are particularly concerned by the
difficulties facing graduates from training institutions when seeking employment. According
to one study 25% of the graduates with CAP diplomas from Technical Colleges were still
unemployed lb months after graduation  29% succeeded in finding apermanent job in the modern
sector, and 48% took up part time employment. These results reflect the small size of the
modern sector (7% of global employment) and the inappropriate content of training programs.
In fact, 72% of those enrolled in technical education are registered in commercial courses
whereas 40% of skilled modern sector employment is in industry.
2.           In addition, of those who are able to find employment, 28% become salaried
employees, 46% self-employed, and 26% apprentices. Many accept apprenticeship status because
it provides one of the most effective paths to eventual entry into the labor market. Finally,
it appears that the absence of equipment in the techn,cal colleges limits the quantity and
quality of practical experience that graduates can obtain: this in turn constitutes a major
obstacle to permanent employment.
3.           Objectives. Work experience internships (Stages d'Adaptation a la Vie
Professionnele -- SAVP) provide a means to:
- facilitate the transition of young graduates into the work force;
- improve the skill level used by private enterprise;
- complete the training received by graduates of training programs by providing
them with more practical experience;
- provide opportunities for specialization, as the reform of the training system
will de-emphasize specialization and encourage polyvalence.
4.           Approach. The SAVP is a system by which a graduate from a technical education or
vocational training Program is sponsored in a workplace in business or industry for a period
not to exceed 4 months. The internship is based on a contract whereby the enterprise agrees
to provide the graduate with the opportunity to practice a trade and the graduate agrees to
perform the tasks assigned to him or her and to respect the Work Code (Code de Travail) and
the Inter-professional Convention (Convention Interprofessionelle).
5.           Graduates who are first time job seekers and have not found employment for six
months since graduation are eligible to participate in a SAVP. The FNAFPP wilT pay the intern
either half of minimum wage or the going apprenticeship wage for the field in question
(whichever is higher). The enterprise can, if it so wishes complement this stipend.
6.           The intern is covered against work related accidents and occupational illnesses;
he or she is also beneficiary of Social Security legislation. In addition, the internship
eriod is considered to be equivalent to the trial period as defined by work related
legislation.
7.           If the intern is subsequently hired by the enterprise and kept on for a period of
at least one year, the business will be reimbursed their contribution to the Apprenticeship
Tax for that employee for one year.
8.           Administration. SAVP proposals can be presented to the Fund in the same manner as
any other sub-proect. Solicitors of SAVP internships must be either enterprises or training
institutions: individuals cannot apply directly to the Fund for internships. The same
criteria used for other sub-projects will apply for SAVP proposals: the pedagogical criteria,
however, will be waived.
9.           Costs. The below table summarizes the costs for the proposed subproj ect. Their
are three ma4or costs associated with SAVP subprojects: (i) intern stipends; (ii) insurance,
social security contributions, and other non-salary intern costs; and (iii) reimbursements to
enterprises of Apprenticeship Tax.



- 75 -
Annex 3.5
Page 9 of 9
ilapublique Togohha
.trucuratloen do I    _neigsumnt technique ot de
l formatlon pwrofeaonn.ll1
Table 601. Suort por Iee eta.. d  daptatien * Is vin prof....
Deil led Cost Table
CPA
Sreakdwn of Totals Ine .Cont.
411utity          Unit Coat                       u
Unit   1i0O 10o1-r   Total    199003         FP.Exch     Local     Teamn     TOt l
II. REW839T COSTS
A Forstion  n entrerise
Frets de         /                 0.0 1200.0 8600.0       1029C         0.00 1O671.08        0.00 1671.08
SAW per etegir.      Hmmm-note    0.0  800.0  900.0        8o0n          0.00 146916.90       0.00 141116.90
Sub-Total                                                                 0.00 8126.0          0.00  8O1O76.0
Total RECilUNT COSTS                                                             0.00 812676.0` 0.00 812676.90
Total                                                                         0.00 812676.06       0.00  312676.08
7/14/101i 16:06
Republique Tooleise
Restrueturetion de I eneeignamnt techniqu   t ce
is *eration proaefionnellI
Table 90q. Montant resere pour alimantr In FiAFPP
Detailed Coat Table
CFA
Sreakdon of Totals Incl.Cont.
Quantity        Unit Coat                         USS
-           ~~  -
unit 90041 92-9 Total        10100-0        F.Exch      Local      Taxe       Total
I. IMSNUITV   COSTS
A aniM ciil                      00   1.0  2.0        16100207      445.60 0o6672.12          0.00  141267.72
Mobb I lir                        -    -    -              -        25648.S1    66.88         00   8460o.60
Eqipa t                           -    -    -              -       170056.74       0.00       0.00  17003.74
our                               -    -    -              -        42780.16       0.00       0.00   42730,16
Sub-Totl                                                            29388.03  106687.5s1       0.00  8ss72.u4
Toetl DNESTT  COSTS                                                       28036.08   10687.51         0.00  3s072.54
It. RECAUVIIT COSTS
1nreasa pronl-                        -    -                         0.00   0676.00         0.00   0627.00
Cot do Foration   Forfaitaire  0.0  1.0  2.0         242604446    122310S.57  08164861        0.00 2175042.10
Appuis tehniques                 -    -    -              -       613844.40      00         0.00 6O1544.40
Materials conomables              -    -    -              -        82677.68        .         0.0    82677.66
D. ac_ta                          -    -    -              -           0.00  sl.a             0.00  31.1oo 0061.78
FreaI fonctioenna_nt              -    -     -             -            0.       802.60       0.00  588802.
Sub-Total                                                          2560416.66 1001409.22       0.00 4470025.00
Total UiCWREOT COSTS                                                     2560416.66  1001409.22      0.00 4470625.00
Total                                                                 2658350.60 2007046,.7        0.00 469087.6
7/21/190 0:37



-76 -
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 4
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
Component          Subcomponent        Aaency responsible for   Ageng  responsible for
imlementap,,.7. l; --     onitorina.
Overall Project    n/a                 see below for comporent  Cabinet of METFP, assisted
managers.                 by Project Coordinator. The
METFP may call on the Higher
Council as necessary.
LInstitutional    DERP                 DERP                      Cabinet of METFP
Development      Support to DET      DET
Support to DAFP    DAFP
Support to DAC     DAC
Creation of OEF    DERP
2.VET sector       Administration &   Ad hoc committee           Cabinet of METFP
staff training   Management staff   chaired by METFP
Cabinet  with members
from DEAP DET,
DAFP & DAC
Instructor Staff   DET
3.National         Creation & set-up  Executive Secretary        Higher Council on
Training         of NTF                                        Technical &
Fund                                                           Training
Specific           Individual promotor
sub-projects       or Directorate of
origin, supported
by the Executive
Secretariat of
the NTF



- 77 _
Reubilto Toeoleiese                                        Annex 3.6
Restructurtlon de I en _e gnman tehniqu  at de                          Page 2 of 4
Is for_ation profeona ll-
Table 107. Siivi st actualietion de o   refoer
Dtal led Cost Table
CPA
Breakdown of '.tele lncl.Cont.
Ruantity            Unit Cost                       US2
Unit lKO  190  02-f  Toal           19-           F.Exch     Logo a     Taxes     Tot,l
1. IIVDESTET COSTS
A. Veocules
Ortek few                 Unit.           1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0         G06       10506.48      0.00      0.00  160.43
3.Wrln. lor               Unite           0.0   1.0   0.0   1.0       C8006      14484.62      0.00      0.00  14414.62
Sub-Total                                                                          2s484.ss      0.0        0.00  2814.90
Total DNESTMIENT COSTS                                                                   2w64.s6       0.00      0.00  20s.st
II. RECIIRRT COSTS
A. Reunion conjoint Too/UM
Prar. criter re iee       e Dottlon     0.0   1.0   1.0   8.0        102060         0.00   1S2t.61       0.00   1826.61
S. Selaier   e cdriee not.
Couptebl-                 He.A..ie        8.0  12.0  12.0  89.0       184786         0.00  27381.10       0.00  27861.10
C. Coeit. technique ConSup
Jeton pr_eenc             Forfaltaire      -     -      -     -           -          0.00  12419.09       0.00  12419.0S
0. Consomables et fonct.
Fonctionn_ent vehiculee   Detotltn/mole    -     -      -     -           -          0.00  27044.69       0.00  27044.06
Consommbles bureu         Dotetlon       0.6   1.0   1.0   8.5         0o694       627.40    689.84       0.00   1414.74.
Sub-Total                                                                           827.40  2784.82        0.00  2611.72
E Audit de preJat             H_me-ois        1.0   1.0   1.0   4.0        118208      1827.46      0.00       0.00   Is27.46
F. Appul Chabre do etiere
Contractual national (1>   Home-mie       8.0   9.0   0.0  12.0       164786         0.00   702.7?        0.00   7002.7
0. CoordoJneaur 7000/IDA      Homme-moie      8.0  12.0  12.0  8".0        411640         0.00  68452.78       0.00  68452.76
M.: Etude Mirobe de travel I
Appul pour Il'tuda       Home-aol.       0.0   6.0   0.0   6.0         71178       1687.65      0.00      0.00   1607.86
Deplaceaente              Aller-retour    0.0   2.0   0.0   2.0       5S1001       4692.80      0.00      0.00   4502.60
Per di_m appuls           Hoe-jour       0.0  160.0   0.0  160.0       45261         0.00  29700.49       0.00  29700.49
Sub-Ttet I                                                                          6290.66  29700.49       .00  86901.14
Toutl RECllRRT COSTS                                                                      89856t2  174907.08    e0.00 18892.66
Total                                                                                 88420.47 174967.03       0.00 218877.60
(1) Charge de I* sneibili ation A Is formatlon dex *rtisom
(2> Etudos de preparatIon projet future
7/14/1990 16:01
Republique Togolaim
R"tructuretlon de I    l_nemnt techiqlu at de
Is foreation profesleannll-I
Teble 106. Ref inaaoemat PPP
Deti led Cost Table
CFA
9reakdown of Ttals Inacl.Cont.
Quentity     Unit Coat                      USi
Unit  W9D0-  Total    1K0-98      F.ExcL.    Loeo l     Taxes     Total
II. iECINS  Cost
A. Ref inanc_eent PPF     Forteltaire   -    -           -      62s0.86       0.00      0.00 6626t0.96
Total RECURREOT COSTS                                             662660.85      o.0o      0.00  662850.86
Total                                                          66260.88      0.00      0.00 6526t0.88
7/14/1990, 1:tO



- 78 -
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 4
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.           Bank Sunervision Inout into Key Activites: The staff input indicated in the table
below is in addition to regular supervision needs ot the review of progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
2.           Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)          in the form as discussed with Government:
(ii)         at the end of November and May of each year;
(iii)        by the Pro4ect Coordinator, which will coordinate report preparation
by the various Directorates and agencies.
(b)   Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the Project
Coordinator in the Cabinet of the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational
training (NETFP). Review meetings with the participation of the four Directors of
the METFP and the Executive Director of the National Training Fund will be held
normally in mid-April and mid-October of each year. The meetings will be chaired
by the Minister or, in his absence, the Project Coordinator.
(c)   The Project Coordinator will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank supervision missions, and for providing information required by missions.
Missions will be accompanied by senior members of the METFP.
(d)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will normally be
chaired by the Minister or his designated representative.
Bank supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate               Activity                     Expected Skill             Staff Input
Dates:                                                Requirements            (Staff weeks)
(month year)
11-12/90            upervision Mission              Economics/Training           5.0
(Project Launch                 Procurement
Vorkshop)                        Disbursement
2/91                (a) Review of detailed          Training                      1.5
plans of methodology of          Economics
analysis of employment
of training graduates
lb) Review results of
informal sector study.
6-7/91             $upervisien  ission              Economics/Training            3.0
to review start-up and
tmplementation of
organizational
arrangements)
10/91              Review:                          Training                     2.5
(a) cr .eria used for            Economics
selection of sub-
projects by the NTF;
(b) sub-projects in
pipeline for NtF
financing.



- 79 -
Annex 3.6
Page 4 of 4
Bank supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate              Activity                     Exoected Skill            Staff Input
Dates:                                             Reuiremnts               (Staff weeks)
(month year)
1-2/92             $upervision Nission:            Training                    2.5
(detailed review of             Implementation
selection of first set
of training sub-
projects)
9-10/92            Supervision ission:             Training                     4.0
a  Review of use of             Labor economics
;Implementation
(b) hold detailed
discussions on analysis
of employment success of
training graduates from
academic year 1990-91.
(c) Results of training
program for
admirnistrators and
instructors.
(d) Retrospective
assessment of revised
administrative structure
of NETFP
2/93               Supervision fission:            Training                    2.5
(Review criteria used by        Implementation
NTF and ipeline of sub-
projects~
10/93              Supervision fission:            Labor economics             2.5
(Review pipeline of sub-       Training
projects and analysis of        Implementation
of employment success of
training graduates from
academic year 1991-1992.
1994               Two Supervision                 Labor economics             5.0
Nissions: (to review,           Training
inter alia  criteria            Implementation
used by NTf, pipeline of
sub-projects and
analysis of employment
success of training
graduates)
1995               Two Supervision                 Labor economics             5.0
lissions:                       Training
(one to review final            Implementation
commitments, the
continuation of NTF and
the state of the
Training tax and one to
prepare for project
closure)
1996               Supervision fission:            Economics                   4.0
(to prepare for the PCR)        Labor economics
Training
Implementation



- 80 -
Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
Republique Toegelale
Restructurtlon de I _naIgn_meat teehnique et de
1 formation pretmel.naelle
Project Coat Sumary
CFA                             USI lX te  l
_ -_______             ------   X Foreign         Beas
Local  Foreign    Total        Local Foreign   Total    Exchange    Coes
A. Ronforc...nt Institution
1. Dtr.En;eign.T<ch.          5s.66   190.65   249.30          0.21    0.67    0.67          76.4?     0.78
2. Dir.Form.Pro.I Appren.       18.48    41.90    60.81        0.06    0.16    0.21          69.40      1.64
S. Dlr.Aftfalre Coo.            26.28   110.81    135.5C        0.09    0.89    0.46         61.37      8.69
4. Dir.Etudes Rech.Perep.      165.62    94.07   279.70         o."6    0.3      0.98        83.68      7.81
6. Obaervtoeire .mploi/form    46.42    61.07    106.49         0.16    0.21    0.87         57.35      2.90
6. Suivi de lo refoer           41.61     9.50    61.01         0.15    0.03     0.16        16.62      1.89
7. Ref inaneAmont PPF           0.00   146.25   146.25          0.00    0.51    0.51        100.00      3.95
Sub-Total                        374.95   652.76  1027.71          1.31    2.29    3.61         63.52    27.94
S. Formation d o personnel
1. Personnel encadre _nt        0.31    117.76   116.06        0.00    0.41    0.41          99.74      3.21
2. Personnel enaeignont         0.00   126.09    126.99         0.00    0.45    0.46        100.00      3.51
Sub-Total                           0.31   248.76   247.07         0.00    0.67     0.87        99.86      6.72
C. Foods soupl- d intervent.
1. Comite de gestion            4.94      0.00      4.94        0.02    0.00    0.02          0.00     0.13
2. Socratarlato technique      65.04    50.67   115.71          0.28    0.16    0.41         43.79      3.16
3. Projet ET formal           463.51   665.68   1107.36         1.55    2.84     3.69        69.06    80.11
4, Adapt.wi* profeslonell.     69.60      0.00    09.50         0.24    0.00    0.24          0.00      1.69
5. Autree projetJ non-Qpc.    446.11   659.38  1106.49          1.62    2.8S    3.88         59.66    30.06
Sub-Total                        1039.10  1363.90  2403.00         3.55    4.68     8.43        56.76    66.34
Total EASELIDE COSTS             1414.86  2263.42  3877.76         4.86    6.04   12.90         $2.30   100.00
Physical C*ntlng*nc1en         104.81   193.67   297.98         0.37    0.65     1.05        64.99      6.10
Price Contingnci-e             260.69   267.40   607.90         0.96    0.01     1.76        45.16    13.61
Total PROJECTS COSTS             1769.26  2714.49  4468.75         6.21    9.52   15.73           .64   121.91
Valuen Scaled by 1000000.0 - 7/14/1990 16:06



- 81 -
Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 2
Repblque Teoislze
imtruoratlon de I gnslonemt technique et de
l foret_lon preleionnel Is
Proj    Components by Ymer
Totals Including Contlngncies             Totale Including Coetingencies
1090    1001    1002    190S   TOtal      1099     1091    1992    1903   Toutl
A. Ronforcemnt Institution
1. Dir.Ensl.gn.tech.         81.20  150.46   9S.20   18.89  291.24       0.11    0.53    0.3    0.06    1.02
2. Oir.Form.Pro?.& Apprn.     8.86   82.20   20.40   11.75   72.70       0.03    0.11    0.07    0.04    0.20
8. 01r.Affaires Co..         89.80   07.08   40.92    8.18  156.70       0.14    0.24    0.14    0.03    0.55
4. DIr.Etud.s Rech.Porsp.     6.9S  128.18   01.72   88.01  8s4.0        0.13    0.4e    0.29    0.81    1.17
S. Obeervetolre mplol/foter   7.72   8.40   25.75   28.77  128.04        0.18    0.12    0.8O    0.09    0.48
6. sut1, d. Is reform         8.76   27.54   12.01   12.49   60.81       0.03    0.10    0.04    0.04    0.21
7. Ref inencemont PPm       1C7.48    0.00    0.00    0.00  157.48       0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.55
Sub-Total                      820.26  489.61  274.00  168.56 1197.48      1.12    1.54    0.9S    0.57    4.20
B. Forwmtion de pereonnel
1. Personnl *ncadr_esnt       0.18  56.67   46.68   40.78  144.11        0.00    0.20    0.16    0.14    0.51
2. Personnl nignant           0.00   68.0s   56.10   87.07  157.12       0.00    0.22    0.20    0.18    0.5
Sub-Total                       0.10  119.62  102.68   78.76  801.28       0.00    0.42    0.86    0.28    1.00
C. Fonda soupIe d Intervent.
. Comite do gastlon           1.19    1.60    1.68    1.64    5.92       0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.02
2. S cretriate technique     41.29   88.51   29.25   80.41  186.46       0.14    0.12    0.10    0.11    0.48
8. Projet Et formal          44.57  401.85  618.02  808.94 1868.88       0.16    1.41    2.17    1.07    4.80
4. Adpt.vi* professional 1    0.00   28.87   29.78   80.97  89.11        0.00    0.10    0.10    0.11    0.81
6. Autre projea non-Open.     0.00    0.00  679.22  705."  1865.21       0.00    0.00    2.38    2.48    4.86
Sub-Totel                       87.06  467.24 1857.84  072.95 208.09      0.31    1.64    4.76    8.76   10.47
Total PROJECTS COSTS           407.60 1026.47 1784.52 1815.28 44$8.75      1.48    8.00    6.09    4.61   16.78
Values Scaled by lOOOO1O.0 7/14/1990 16:07
Republique Teool    ni et
Reitructuration  e I sga t techae ot d
la formation profliennel Is
Financing Plan by Project Componante
Comeanute      Qouvernmnt
SDA          European        Togolxlx          Total               Local
---________-----______________     For.    (Exf l.    Duties
Amount    S    Aount    S    Amount            AMount    S       Exch.  Taxe)  A Tax.
A. Dtr.Eanelon.Tech.           0.97   94.81    0.00    0.00    0.05    5.19    1.02    6.50    0.78    0.25    0.00
8. Dlr.Form.Prof.. Aiion.      0.21   68.88    0.00    0.00    0.04   16.67    0.28    1.02    0.18    0.08    0.00
C. Oir.Affolre Coe.            0.52  90.82    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.18    0.55    8.60    0.44    0.11    0.00
D. Dir.Etudea Rech.Perep.      0.75   68.01    0.00    0.00    0.48   86.19    1.17    7.47    0.89    0.70    0.00
E. Obeervatoira emplol/form    0.48  98.60    0.00    0.00    0.01    1.84    0.48    2.76    0.24    0.19    0.00
F. Suivi de la rteorm          0.18   62.40    0.00    0.00    0.06   87.60    0.21    1.86    0.04    0.17    0.00
a. R tinancamont PPF           0.56  100.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.55    8.61    0.55    0.00    0.00
H. Personnel ennadr _nt        0.51   99.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.09    0.51    8.21    0.50    0.00    0.00
S. Personnel ensegnont         0.56  100.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    8.50    0.55    0.00    0.00
J. Comit d gostion             0.01   47.59    0.00    0.00    0.01   52.41    0.02    0.18    0.00    0.02    0.00
K. Secreterito technique      0.87   76.85    0.00    0.00    0.11   28.65    0.40    8.04    0.20    0.27    0.00
L. Projot ET formal            8.94   02.07    0.00    0.00    0.86   17.98    4.e0   80.62    2.79    2.01    0.00
ii Adept.vie profetinel ll     0.22   70.00    0.00    0.00    0.09   80.00    0.81    1.99    0.00    0.81    0.00
M. Autre projets non-spec.     0.00    0.00    8.71   76.80    1.15   28.70    4.56   80.89    2.85    2.01    0.00
Total Diabur_mnt               9.15   58.17    8.71   28.67    2.87   10.28   15.78  100.00    9.52    0.21    0.00
Value Scaled by 1000000.0 7/14/1900 16:07



- 82 -
Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
RECURRENT COST EFFECTS OF THE PROJECT
I.             Overview of changes in education and training costs in Toao
1.             After a period of rapid expansion during the 1970s, when both student numbers and the
resources allocated to education increased, Togo's education system experienced not just slower
growth in the 1980s but a steady decline in enrollments in primary education, and a 2* fall in the
funds allocated to education between 1982 and 1989 (from 19% to 17% in terms of the national
education budget only, or from 22% to 20% if expenditures by other ministries are included).
2.             METFP was established in 1984, receiving at that time only 3.6% of the total education
budget which is low, given that other countries allocate between two and four times as much. The
removai of ETFP from the Ministry of National Education was designed to strengthen and refocus its
activities toward labor market needs, selective expansion and renewal. Unfortunately this was also
the  time when  macroecononic  adjustment  measures  imposed  considerable  constraints  on  Togo,
particularly in the area of State operating expenses, with the result that the new ministry was
unable to recruit even the minimal number of staff that would have been allowed in more normal
circumstances.
3.             Consequently, in 1989, five years later, METFP still received only 3.6% of the total
education budget. It should be noted that when METFP was established the Togolese Government decided
to introduce a training tax on wages and salaries, following a practice already established in some
40 countries. To simplify collection this tax was added to the existing tax on wages and salaries
(5%) and the tax for low-cost housing (1%), which meant that firms were now asked to pay total
payroll taxes of 7% instead of 6%. The recently created NETFP, with only a very small central staff,
lacked the institutional capacity to develop the mechanisms, structures and criteria to manage this
training tax. Its most urgent task was to establish itself with such resources as it had, and to
make existing institutions function.
4.              Since METFP was unable to make immediate use of the new tax, the latter was collected
by the Treasury and treated as part of general tax revenues. The current project to strengthen METFP
aims to give the ministry an enhanced and permanent management capacity. Specificall , this means
that the time has come for METFP to collect the training tax for its own purposes. From the point
of view of the overall allocation of public resources among the various sectors, this change can only
be regarded as timely. As noted above, between 1982 and 1989 the education sector lost 2% of its
share of the State's operating budget. This decline was not justified. Togo spends one fifth of
its budget on education, while the corresponding figure for francophone Africa as a whole is one
quarter. It cannot therefore be said that there is overinvestment in the sector. Furthermore, the
implementation of adjustment programs is increasingly accompanieA by a desire to protect certain
social sectors whose impact on Iorg-term economic development no longer has to be demonstrated.
Education is one of these sectors, and therefore the recovery of the training tax will enable the
sector partially to recover the ground (in practice only a quarter of it) lost over the last seven
years.
II.            Self-sustaining capability of METFP at the end of the oroiect
5.             Three financing scenarios were tested during project preparation.   In the first
scenario, the proceeds of the training tax would be paid in ful  to NETFP from the beginning of 1990.
In the second scenario the tax would be paid in stages, beginning with one third in 1990 and
reaching 100% at the end of the project. In the third scenario, the tax would not be paid to METFP.
In the final analysis, the first two scenarios are fairly similar; it is apparent that
at the end of the project, if no other project replaces it, the level of education sector resources
will decline by something of the order of 10%, but an appropriate level of financing will nonetheless
have been ensured and the Ministry will in principle be operating on a scale enabling it to manage
its activities satisfactorily, and perhaps even to turn itself into a National Office of Vocational
Training along the lines of institutions now established in a number of countries. From a strictly
financiai point of view the second scenario, involving phased payment of the tax, is marginally
better. Its principal drawback is that it would create serious political difficulties for METFP-
after arduous interministerial negotiations METFP succeeded in 1989 in having a law voted that
established the vocational training fund, using the proceeds of the training tax with immediate
effect. It would be difficult now for the ministry to go back to the National Assembly to request



- 83 -
Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 2
a change of this nature.
The third scenario, on the other hand, shows that if the proceeds of the training tax
were not allocated to hETFP, at the end of the project, available resources would be reduced by 38%.
Given present constraints (personnel, central administration, etc.), such a sharp fall would
seriously jeopardize the entire project goals, particularly the objective of making training more
responsive to changes in labor market needs. In the extreme case, it wou.d be better not to start
the project at all rather than to refuse HETFP the resources that will guarantee its ability to
continue its activities under the new policy introduced by the project.
III.           Problem of budaetary intearitv
6.             The fact that for a number of years the proceeds of this tax have gone into general
revenues might make their recent reallocation to METFP look like an attack on budgetary integrity.
The argument is not without relevance, but three other considerations should be borne in mind:
-      Initially, the legislators clearly intended to introduce a parafiscal tax whose
proceeds were earmarked not a new tax. It was circumstances that led to the proceeds
being treated as genera1 revenue  and the recent restoration of the initial purpose
merely conforms to the original intention of the legislators.
-      Most of the countries that use this kind of system to finance vocational training have
opted to earmark resources outside the budget; Togo has no reason to be resarded as
unorthodox in this respect.
-      More fundamentally, this approach is based on solid ecoiomxic analysis. It has already
keen shown that, lacking support from public funds the education/training sector was
tending to suffer from underinvestment. This explains the wholesale intervention by
public authorities in this sector.  In the vocational training subsector  the fact
that this activity is close in time to entry into active life, and that it is more
specific than general education, requires more flexible handling of the level of
public support. When the supply of qualified manpower is limited its price rises
and it is in the interest of firms to expand the supply. A payroll tax of 1 to 2%
to finance this training is less costly than the increases in the price of qualified
manpower that results from its scarcity. The relative prices of labor and capital
therefore argue in favor of expanding the supply of vocational training. Conversely
if there is an excess supply of skilled manpower, the tax to benefit vocationai
training should be cut in order to reduce the supply. It is easier to manipulate
supply and demand with an earmarked tax than with undifferentiated budget funds.



r                     I"ZZr 
3.  =tooooooo                       OXSf 
o~~~~~~*                       .. -1Xo|oo°o0 $]    l  211
0           *             _39-
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< 0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
~ 8~~8~Z288  Ij~o



NOTES



NOTES



MAP SECTION
IIIAP SECTION



IBRD 22419
_ % .  ~        I            .aBURKINA   AWRITANIA                 |
FASO                    _   _   AAL      NIGER
A~~~NG~
/                   C
z~~~~~~~~~~
C5   ~   ~         ,{       /         8ofiloN}-\oub
TECHNICA EDucATi TN AND
T O G O  I                            iZ
VOCATIONAL TRIING PROJECT)   Bl11 
19:t5 POPUAWIN 064Sffy SY NOBON  5    P°#<   1 
A" arclLw T..
8+ tt0  - 7    s^Ure'            8      TFo\        9     ¢t
F30-20.5                  PL A}U 
205os40e5           Ps        L                 ui; a
tU7rCE    N rB             R  A     !        i
TECNICL EUCllON AND 
A L XATION O F vEr            P#g
VAONS     aNEERS mL
-7-                                                                           7;--  0  
?WV  lwd8A AU kw9
,2,0 ,o   10 -       60,80,
Kll OMERS                                            If a f,B nn
JUNE 1990



IBRD 22419
F             *%         _      BURKINA                   MAURItANIA A.
It       i       ............................... FASO        MAti       If
A    A      N A         _  __   __
z
10*~~~~~<                                                                   I T.s 
10
TEHNCA EU    E A                   !
VOCTOA TRAININ  PRJc) s t                                 t-f-o 
10'S ~      ~ C4I  E5 POPAAO PA                   L )
7.
T 0 G 0                        fo'
-  otoubouo           .     . 
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND t                                 6 
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT)   gltKl{                                   /  
197S POPULAt>N 0&4 TBY py IWN   .        po    #               , 
-0     -205 
saaI..b.00
9~             20-0 20  P0 L*                   A ,T E19
-   tOUES AWNClPAtESi   B                               f
A LOCAMNOf ETS
TRAININGCNERS    X9 {< 1
7-UE 1990
C,0 n.e :| ftS
_q^7 "                                 V..*   -  hf5-i '-
ow   _"v of nm :i V wt
Of , 0 0,60 to,ft .Q " 
JUNE 1904



