Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18731
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
PROJECT
(Credit 2174-TO)
December 22, 1998
Human Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Monetary unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January 12, 1994
devaluation of the CFAF from a ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.
1990   US$ = 240 CFAF           1993   US$ = 270 CFAF          1]996   US$ = 550 CFAF
1991   US$ = 240 CFAF          1994   US$ = 470 CFAF           1997   US$ = 590 CFAF
1992   US$ = 250 CFAF           1995   US$ = 490 CFAF          1998   US$ = 640 CFAF
I SDR = US$ 1.3949 (November 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    African Development Bank
CAP      Certificat d'aptitude professionnelle (Certificate of professional aptitude)
CET      Centre d'Enseignement Technique
CNPP    Centre National de Perfectionnement Professionnel
CRETFP  Centre regional d'enseignement technique et deformation professionnelle (Regional Training
Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training)
DAC      Direction des Affaires Communes (Directorate of Common Affairs)
DAFPP   Direction de l 'apprentissage, de la formation et du perfectionnement professionnel (Directorate of
Apprenticeship and Vocational Training)
DERP    Direction des etudes, de la recherche et de la planification (Directorate of Studies, Research and
Planning)
DET      Direction de I'Enseignement Technique (Directorate of Technical Education)
DETFP   Direction de I 'Enseignement Technique et Formation Professionelle (Directorate of Technical
Education and Vocational Training)
ERAC    Economic Recovery Adjustment Credit
FAC      Fonds dA'ide et de Cooperation (Aid and Cooperation Fund)
GTZ      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LETP    Lycee d'enseignement technique etprofessionnel (Technical Education and Vocational Training
Secondary School)
METFPA Ministere de I 'Enseignement technique, de laformation professionnelle et de I 'artisanat (Ministry
of Technical Education and Vocational Training and Artisanship)
NTF      National Training Fund
OEF      Observatoire de 1 'emploi et de la formation (Training and Employment Observatory)
PAGED   Education Rehabilitation Project
SAF      Structural Adjustment Facility
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawings Rights
VET      Technical Education and Vocational Training
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:                       Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Helena Ribe
Task Team Leader:              Irene Xenakis



REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2174-TO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................II
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................I.
A. Macroeconomic Setting ......................................I
B. The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector ......................................I
11. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................................2
A. Original Project Objectives ......................................2
B. Project Description and Components ....2.................................2
C. Credit Covenants and Special Agreements .....3................................3
D.Risks ...................3
E. Evaluation of Project Objectives .....................................                                                              4
III IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE AND  RESULTS ............................................................................4
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability ............................................................................ .4
B. Summary of Project Costs ............................................................................7
C. Summary of Financing Arrangements ............................................................................7
D. Implementation Schedule ............................................................................8
E. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation .......................................................................8
F. Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower 's Performance ...........................................................................9
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................. 10
A. Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience .................................................................... 10
B. Future Operations and Sustainability ...........................................................................                   II
C. Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Togo ...........................................................................       12
PART 11:  STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................................................                                  13
TABLE  1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ..........................                                ................................................. 14
TABLE 2: RELATED  BANK  CREDITS ...........................................................................                               15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...........................................................................                                    16
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS ........ 17
TABLE 5: KEY  INDICATORS OF PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ............                                            .............................. .... 18
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  THE PROJECT ...........................................................................                     21
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS (BY  COMPONENT) ...........................................................................                        25
TABLE  7B: CREDIT AMOUNT (BY  DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY) ..................................................... 25
TABLE 7C: PROJECT FINANCING ...........................................................................                                  26
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS .                                     ........................................................................... 26
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...........................................................................                           27
TABLE  10: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...........................................................................                       31
TABLE  1I A: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS   ........................................................................... 32
TABLE  I IB: BANK  RESOURCES: SUPERVISION  MISSIONS ................................................................. 33
APPENDICES
A. ICR mission's Aide Memoire (November 7, 1998)
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2174-TO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Education and
Vocational Training Project (VET) in Togo for which Credit 2174-TO was approved on
September 4, 1990 in the amount of SDR 7 million (US$9.2 million equivalent) and which was
made effective on January 24, 1991. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998. It was disbursed
up to the amount of SDR 6,500,609.61 (US$ 9,245,681 equivalent) with the final disbursement
taking place on November 19, 1998. The undisbursed amount of SDR 499,390.39 (US$ 690,412
equivalent) was canceled on December 10, 1998.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Rachidi Radji (Human Development Specialist, AFTH3)
with technical input from Celine Gavach (Language Team Assistant, AFTH3) and Hugues
Agossou (Financial Analyst, AFMBJ) and contributions from: Fily d'Almeida (Principal
Operations Officer, AFMTO), Yvette Abaglo (Procurement Specialist, AFMTO), and Virginie
Vaselopulos (Language Team  Assistant, AFTH3).  The report was reviewed by Jerome
Chevallier (Consultant, Office of the Country Director for Togo), Helena Ribe (Sector Manager,
AFTH3), Florent Agueh (Manager, AFTS2), Bettina Moll (Education Specialist, AFTH3), and
Irene Xenakis (Senior Implementation Specialist, AFTH3), as well as by the Togo team members
in the Bank and their advisors in the Education sector.
3.    The Bank's supervision mission in May 1998 began the preparation of this ICR. A short
mission undertaken in November 1998 allowed the mission team the opportunity to discuss the
key lessons of the draft ICR with the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the ICR
preparation by discussing the aide-memoire of the Bank's final supervision mission, commenting
on the draft ICR, and preparing its own evaluation of the Project's execution.



ii
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2174-TO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector. The Project under review was the
third of four IDA funded projects aimed at supporting the education sector in Togo. These
include the first Education Project (Cr. 101 8-TO for an amount of US$1 1.0 million, approved in
1980); the Education Improvement Project (Cr. 1568-TO for an amount of US$12.4 million,
approved in 1985); and the Education Rehabilitation Project (PAGED, Cr. 2752-TO, for an
amnount of US$36.6 million, approved in 1995) (para. 3, 4, and 5). The World Bank's assistance
strategy for Togo, which was established in 1995, stressed two central ideas: promotion of
sustainable growth based on the development of the private sector, and poverty reduction. More
precisely, the strategy emphasized six objectives: (a) restoration of macroeconomic stability; (b)
restoration of basic services in the health, education, and urban sectors; (c) rehabilitation of
essential transportation and energy infrastructures; (d) creation of a favorable framework for
developing the private sector; (e) development of the social sectors and greater recognition of
poverty issues in IDA's project portfolio; and (f) increased efficacy and sustainable management
of the country's natural resources (para. 2).
2.    Objectives of the VET. Following the sectoral reform policy developed by the World
Bank in 1990, the current project-Technical Education and Vocational Training Project (VET)-
had two overall objectives: support the Government's strategy to restructure the Togolese
technical education and vocational training system into a system stimulated by demand and
linked to employment and economic development needs; and assist the Government in making
training more professional through strengthening practical technical education as well as the
theoretical aspects of the traditional programs (dual or modular training) (para. 6).
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The principal objective of the project, to restructure
the technical education and vocational training system to become demand-driven and responsive
to the needs of the production sector was essential. However, this objective proved to be too
ambitious, and to some extent unrealistic, given the scope of the required reforms, the limited
capacity of certain key institutions, and the insufficient level of mobilization, organization, and
motivation of the private sector actors, whose active participation was essential in order to ensure
an effective restructuring of the training mechanism (para. 1 1).



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The Project was not successful in
restructuring the VET system. It had modest success in conducting the pilot dual training of
apprentices in the system, in creating capacities at certain central directorates and training
facilities, and it gradually improved the management procedures of the National Training Fund
(NTF) (para. 13, 14-20).
5.    The sustainability of dual training will require a firm commitment from the Government
and sufficient mobilization of all the actors (including the private sector) at both the central and
peripheral levels. Presently, the future of dual training activities in the four or five centers
without external support remains uncertain (para. 23).
6.    With regard to the NTF, its sustainability is less clear and requires strategic rethinking.
In the short term, the abrupt halt of NTF activities would jeopardize the still fragile partnership
with the private sector, and slow the emergence of diversiified privately provided in-service
training. This point warrants closer examination, including the re-examination of the role of the
NTF (para. 24).
7.    Summary of Project Costs and Financing Arrangements. Total project expenditures
amounted to US$9.2 million of which IDA contributed 96% and the Togolese Government 4%;
compared with the financing percentages established at the time of Board Presentation of IDA
58%, European Union 24%, and Government 18%. A comparative analysis of the actual costs
compared to the estimated costs is marked by the fact that the European Union contribution to
the project (23.6%) failed to be mobilized. Additionally, underestimated costs and the change in
disbursement percentages following amendment of the Credit Agreement resulted in IDA's
authorization to overdraw several disbursement categories (para. 25-28).
8.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation. Project implementation
was greatly influenced by a variety of factors including: the political events of the 1990s (para.
32); the limited capacity of the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training and
Artisanship (METFPA) to mobilize private sector and professional organization partners (para.
33); and the continuous shortage of counterpart funds in the Project's account, attributable to the
Government's failure to provide resources for the NTF (para. 34).
9.    Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank's performance
was, overall, marginally satisfactory during project identification and preparation, but deficient
during project appraisal. The risks were correctly identified but, in hindsight, the measures
identified were insufficient or ineffective to mitigate these risks. Project implementation was
carried out in an uncertain environment which was further complicated by the high turn-over of
local counterparts. Under these circumstances, the Bank's supervision was marginally effective.
The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the project preparation phase but deficient
during implementation.



iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience. Several lessons for future
projects can be drawn given the difficulties which impeded the realization of this project's
central objective (para. 37-38):
* Minimum pre-existing institutional capacity is a determining factor, and was required to boost
a reform as profound as that of the VET.
* Active participation and commitment of the professional partners was essential for the success
of the envisaged VET reform. A thorough evaluation undertaken during project preparation
could have assisted in better gauging the activities, and better phasing the implementation of
the reforms.
* The establishment of need studies is a critical instrument for guiding a demand based
mechanism for training. But, to be effective, such a mechanism requires a change in
substance of training centers' roles, accompanied by a subsequent change in their
management (the autonomy, management by objective/contract, etc.). In the absence of such
choices, there is an increased risk of perpetuating the traditional system. The restructuring of
the CET into Regional Training Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training
(CRETFP) constitutes a step in this direction; however, greater participation of professionals
in the management of the centers and granting more autonomy are necessary.
* The relevance and efficacy of a fund, such as the NTF, in its roles of financing and structuring
the vocational training supply is primarily a function of its capacity to respond to the demand
for vocational training emerging from the private sector, and the quality of its management
and procedures.  The sustainability of such a mechanism  is demanding, in terms of
institutional and legal framework and the degree of motivation of all actors involved.
. . The functionality of the Training and Employment Observatory (OEF) rests on its capacity to
develop a large network of actors and partners. The quality of the institutional framework of
the OEF is an important element for increasing its chances of reaching a sufficient level of
credibility and visibility.
* Given the difficulties encountered in project implementation, particularly the persistence of
the main risks identified during project preparation, a decision to proceed with project
restructuring would have provided a greater chance for success. An opportune moment would
have been during the Credit Agreement amendment in 1995.
11.  In addition to the sectoral aspects, the project implementation experience lends itself to
some further operational lessons which are important for the preparation and implementation of
future operations. These include:



v
Effective functioning of the multi-sectoral coordination institutions and mechanisms.
Particular attention should be paid to these elements during project supervision, and if
necessary should be included in the Credit Agreement covenants.
* Up-stream establishment of key procedures and operational manuals. The availability of
these tools and basic documents before project implementation will help to avoid delays and
facilitate the establishment of a mutual understanding shared by all the actors, a factor which
is favorable for establishing mobilized support for the project objectives.
* Support of reforms and capacities development. A good balance between these two elements
is necessary for successful project implementation. Analysis of this question should include
all of the principal actors (including those from the private sector) for whom motivation and
mobilization are key to project implementation. The phasing of the implementation of the
reforms through successive operations can undoubtedly lead to results which are built on more
solid foundations, and which integrate the time necessary for cultural changes.
* Leadership in support of changes. High level and continuous leadership in the sectoral
Ministry is a critical factor for project success.
* Monitoring and evaluation activities and follow-up of studies. VET projects are very
demanding in terms of monitoring and evaluation activities at both the design and
implementation phases. These activities should be well tailored to the existing capacity,
including support of TA as required. The development of such capacity should be regarded as
a tool and an outcome, and should receive adequate attentio]n during project execution.
* Programming annual activities. The preparation of an annual budgeted activities program is a
very strong tool for supporting project implementation and supervision. It requires, on the part
of both the Borrower and the Lender, solid preparation and an in-depth review in order to
provide a framework for smooth implementation of the agreed upon activities.
12.   The fundamental objectives of the VET reform supported by the Project are still valid and
deserve to be developed and supported in the framework of an intensified sectoral dialogue (para.
39). The initiative taken by the World Bank and Togolese teams in proceeding with the launch
of three important analytical studies (on the dual training experience, the impact of staff training
activities on the system's performance, and the evaluation of NTF activities) are a step in the
right direction. The results will ultimately complement those presented in this report. In the
interim, in view of the project's implementation experience, some themes and questions seem to
be key for future sectoral dialogue: sector financing and the concept of NTF; development of
dual training and the challenge ahead; sector management and administration; and adjusting and
strengthening the sector policy (para. 40).



1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2174-TO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING
I.    The adjustment efforts begun in the 1 980s were undermined by the sociopolitical troubles
which began in 1990 and culminated in 1992-93. This translated in a 16.5% decrease in GDP in
1993 and a pronounced deterioration of the public finance and foreign accounts situation. The
CFAF devaluation in January 1994, and the beginning of a certain stability on the political front,
created favorable conditions for economic recovery. GDP grew 14%, 7%, and 6% in 1994,
1995, and 1996, respectively. The pressure on prices, which was induced by the devaluation,
was gradually overcome, and inflation was reduced to 5% in 1996. The financial situation
slowly improved, and the Government's deficit level was reduced from 8% of GDP in 1995 to
6.5% in 1997. The macroeconomic reforms initiated by the Government were supported by the
IMF and the World Bank through an Economic Recovery Adjustment Credit (ERAC) and a
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF).
B.   THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND THE SECTOR
2.    As of September 30 1998, 49 IDA credits had been approved for Togo, amounting to
US$766 million. The World Bank's support strategy, which was established in 1995, stressed
two central ideas: promotion of sustainable growth based on the development of the private
sector, and poverty reduction.  More precisely, the strategy emphasized six objectives:
(a) restoration of macroeconomic stability; (b) restoration of basic services in the health,
education, and urban sectors; (c) rehabilitation of essential transportation and energy
infrastructures; (d) creation of a favorable framework for developing the private sector;
(e) development of the social sectors and greater recognition of poverty issues in IDA's project
portfolio; and (f) increased efficacy and sustainable management of the country's natural
resources. The Bank's current portfolio, of US$175 million equivalent, includes six projects
under supervision in agricultural and rural development, urban infrastructure, energy, education,
highway transport, and public and private enterprise restructuring; with an undisbursed amount
of approximately US$133 million equivalent.
3.    The first Education Project financed by IDA (Cr. 1018-TO, for an amount of US$11.0
million, approved in 1980) assisted the Government in: (a) improving the quality of primary
education; (b) reorganizing and strengthening the primary education sub-sector and teachers
training; and (c) training agricultural technicians, teachers, and advisors in agricultural sciences
for primary and secondary schools. The Project closed on June 30, 1986. According to the ICR,
while the Project only partially achieved its objectives with regard to agricultural training, it



2
surpassed the objectives aimed at training primary school advisors. The report indicated that the
freeze on civil service employment strangled pre-employment training. It also stated that the
capacity of the Togolese labor market to absorb the students leaving secondary school and the
graduates in the agricultural sector was underestimated.
4.    The Education Improvement Project (Cr. 1568-TO, for an amount of US$12.4 million,
approved in 1985) aimed at assisting Togo to: (a) improve education quality by training 5,850
secondary school math and science teachers; (b) provide low-cost primary textbooks; (c) improve
the physical facilities for secondary math and sciences; and (d) improve education management
at all levels by strengthening and restructuring the Educatiorn Planning Directorate. The ICR
indicated that, despite the implementation delays, cost overruns, and underestimating the
facilities, the project was rated satisfactory.
5.    The Education Rehabilitation Project (PAGED, Cr. 2752-TO, for an amount of
US$36.6 million, approved in 1995) is a primary education system rehabilitation project whose
overall objectives are to improve the quality of schools and develop an improved education
management system through: (a) construction and rehabilitation of schools; (b) provision of
textbooks; (c) pedagogical innovations at the school level; (d) recruitment and decentralized
financing of teachers; and (e) development of sector management tools. The Mid-term Review is
scheduled for January 1999. To date, approximately 30% of the credit has been disbursed.
II. PROJECT OBJECTI'VES
A.   ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    Preparation of the current project was inspired by the sectoral reform policy for technical
education and vocational training developed by the World Bank in 1990. The first project
objective was to support the Government's strategy to restructure the Togolese technical
education and vocational training system into a system stimulated by demand, and linked to
employment and economic needs, particularly in production sectors. To this end, the strategy
included: (a) the establishment of a labor market monitoring and analysis capacity and
monitoring of the training facilities' performance in order to guide training funding; and (b) the
implementation of a flexible financing mechanism with a view to supporting specific training
programs which respond to market needs. The second objective was to assist the Government in
making training more professional through strengthening practical technical education while also
strengthening the theoretical aspects of the traditional programs (dual or modular training).
B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ICOMPONENTS
7.    The project included three components: (a) institutional development of the METPFA
Directorates in order to strengthen their labor market monitoring and analysis capacity and apply
a dual approach to training which links theory and practice; (b) initial and in-service training of
the administrative staff and teachers of the VET, in order to improve their knowledge of this type



3
of dual training and to complete the range of specializations; (c) launching of the NTF whose
role is not only to support the dual training program, but to finance the private sector's
professional training needs using the resources from the training levy.
C.   CREDIT COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
8.    Covenants and special agreements were developed to assist the project in reaching its
objectives (table 9). The following conditions of Credit effectiveness were agreed upon: (a)
nomination of a Project Coordinator; (b) nomination of a Director of the DERP and the executive
secretary of the NTF; (c) transmission to IDA of a list of administrators, directors, and teachers
in the VET who will be selected to participate in the training courses; (d) deposit of project
counterpart funds in an amount equivalent to 100 million CFAF; and (e) enactment of, through
necessary measures judged acceptable by IDA, Borrowers law No. 88-17 of December 7, 1989
creating the NTF. The Project became effective on January 24, 1991, following an extension of
the initial effectiveness date by one month in order to fulfill the credit effectiveness conditions.
9.    Modifications and amendments. The Credit Agreement was amended on November
14, 1995 to reflect the increase in IDA's disbursement percentages for Categories 1 (civil works
under part A of the Project), 2 (furniture under parts A, B, and C l of the Project), 6 (incremental
operating costs), and 7 (goods, services, and works financed under grants) as follows: 100 % for
expenditures in foreign currency and 95% for expenditures in local currency for goods and
works, and 100% for services. This increase was requested by the Togolese Government on June
10,  1994  (letter  No.  540/MPAT/DGPD)  and  October  6,  1995  (letter  No.
1322/MPAT/DGPD/DCP/DCAREI), to compensate for the difficulties in securing counterpart
funding and the low level of training levy receipts during the general strike of November 1992 to
August 1993, and the lack of alternative sources of funds during the period of financial crisis
which followed. The Project closing date, initially December 31, 1996, was extended once, for a
period of 18 months, to June 30, 1998, for the above-mentioned reasons.
D.   RISKS
10.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified three main risks. The first risk was the
Government's commitment to allocate funds to the VET through the intermediary of the NTF
rather than through annual budgetary allocations might wane. To ensure implementation, the
Government approved the necessary legal documents establishing the NTF and allocating the
proceeds of the training levy to the NTF. Resource allocation to the METFPA would be
addressed through the regular annual review of public expenditures and investments foreseen in
the framework of the macroeconomic dialogue. During project implementation, this risk came to
the forefront, as the least favorable scenario foreseen in the SAR was observed (see para. 25).
The second risk identified was the possible reluctance on the part of the private sector to play an
active role in the training of the workforce. During project preparation, the private sector was
consulted and actively participated in the preparation and design of the sub-projects for which
financing was to be approved under the NTF. In addition, the METFPA was to prepare a guide
for employers interested in using the NTF and would run a national publicity campaign. The



4
third risk addressed the limited capacity of the METFPA to manage the implementation of a
project of this nature. In addition to the strengthening of capacities (consultants, training, etc.),
this problem was addressed through staggering project implementation in order to minimize the
burden on the principal institutions involved.
E.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   The principal objective of the project, to restructure the technical education and
vocational training system such that it would be demand-driven, and responsive to the needs of
the production sector was essential-the system's traditional orientation and organization
demonstrated its limits, in terms of efficacy and flexibility, to responding to the needs and
changes necessary for economic development in the country. However, this objective was too
ambitious, and to some extent unrealistic, given the scope of the reforms, the limited capacity of
certain key institutions, and the insufficient level of mobilization, organization, and motivation of
the private sector actors, whose active participation was essential in order to ensure an effective
restructuring of the training mechanism.
III IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
12.   The SAR identified three project benefits: (a) strengthening of key strategic functions of
the METFPA, implementing operating procedures for the NTF, and association of the private
sector in the selection and operation of the VET; (b) improvement of the external efficacy of the
system through improving the quality of the graduates; and (c) efficiency gains in the system
through a reduction in the repetition rates.
13.   While the creation, strengthening of capacities at certain central directorates of the
METFPA (DERP, DAC, and DETFP) and at certain training lacilities of the newly established
Regional Training Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CRETFP), and
progressive improvements of the management procedures of the NTF can be observed, the most
clear impact of the project is that of the pilot dual training of apprentices in the system. However,
the central Project objective-restructuring the system-was not met.
(a)   Component 1: Institutional Development of thie METFPA and Labor Market
Monitoring and Analysis
14.   DERP capacities were strengthened through personnel training and the provision of some
modern tools necessary to carry out its mission to boost strategic thinking. Approximately 24
studies were carried out and a number of reports were published; some of the results were used to
guide the system's development (for example, creation of CR:ETFP). Although improvements
were necessary in order to facilitate the operationalization of the findings, the action-research



5
activities initiated by the DERP in 1995-96 (on training needs and employment opportunities) are
a step in the right direction.
15.   The creation of both the labor market and training information system, and the Training
and Employment Observatory (OEF) took place. However, implementation of the OEF was very
slow and difficult due to coordination and institutional problems, and will require considerable
effort to become effective. The establishment of a strong and effective coordination and
networking mechanism with the ministry of employment and other key institutions concerned
(National Statistics Office, relevant research centers) will be essential. The initiative taken,
beginning in 1996, to gradually decentralize OEF activities to the regional level through the
support of the available resources at the LETFP/CRETFP level, should be the basis for the
implementation of a coordinated and dynamic data collection scheme and information exchange
among the system's actors and interested parties (administration, private sector, local
collectivities, research centers).
16.   During project implementation, problems linked to leadership weaknesses in key
ministry's structures (notably, DERP and NTF), the absence of a clear definition of roles and
responsibilities among the structures, and inadequate internal communication, contributed to
limiting the impact of institutional strengthening activities, including the interaction with the
professional and production arenas.
(b)   Component 2: Training of VET Staff
17.   The activities of this component permitted the principal managers of the training centers
(12 facility directors, 10 workshop chiefs and 2 censeurs) to be trained in the use of dual training,
and also permitted a vast majority of teachers to be trained in the pedagogy by objectives
method. Overall, the project's quantitative objectives in this area were achieved, and in some
cases, surpassed. The evaluation of the efficacy and impact of this training is currently underway,
but there is evidence that these training activities were instrumental in the implementation of the
experimental dual training in the majority of the training centers (see para. 19). They should also
facilitate the operation of newly established consultation and management committees at the
CRETFP level.
(c)   Component 3: The National Training Fund
18.   Conceived to be one of the integral parts of the restructuring of the VET system,
implementation of the NTF (created by law 88-17) was slow primarily due to a lack of capacity
and financing. The objective was to train between 500 and 1,000 people per year, which was not
achieved until beginning in 1996. During project implementation, a total of 138 plans and
training projects were financed which benefited approximately 5,400 people of which about 20%
were women (approximately 1080). Following a 1997 evaluation, recommendations were made
to improve the fund management procedures, which are currently being implemented, including
strengthening the private sector's representation in the management committee, and the
introduction of a selection process for the training operators. On the other hand, the question of
resource mobilization of the vocational training levy (1% of the wage bill) was not achieved
despite the attention placed on it throughout the life of the project. From 1990 through project



6
closing, the NTF received 300 million CFAF from the public treasury (of which the last payment
of 100 million was made in December 1990), against annual levies estimated at approximately
400 million CFAF. The failure to mobilize funds during project implementation underscored the
low level of understanding and awareness of the VET reforms among the highest level of
Togolese officials. Also, IDA support to the NTF may have contributed to prolonging the
situation; more decisive remedial action by IDA during the early stages of project
implementation may have helped to correct the problem.
19.   In conjunction with the other two components, support of this component assisted in the
implementation of dual training of the apprentices in the 10 training centers beginning in 1995-
96. Although still fragile, the experience warrants recognition. The demand for training by
apprentices is growing (1,500 in training in 1997-98 compared with 1,000 in 1995-96), and the
interest and support of the master artisans, and the professional organizations in general, to the
process seems to be growing with the passage of time (about 800 master artisans are currently
involved in the provision of 12 training modules). An evaluation of the experience in the 10
training centers, with the support of other donors (notably, AfDB, FAC, and GTZ), is currently
underway. Notwithstanding the need for improvement, strengthening, or both, it appears to be a
major accomplishment of the project, and gives hope for succeeding in joining the formal
training system with the traditional apprenticeship system, and for contributing to a qualified
workforce which meets the demands of the economic market.
20.   Finally, it is necessary to mention the work experience internships which did not begin
until October 1996. As of May 1998, they supported 350 interns, of which only 10% received
employment offers at the end of their internships.
(d)   Sustainability of Project Activities
21.   Three important aspects of sustainability activities supported by the project should be
examined: (a) will the gains made in institutional strengthening be supported and reinforced after
the project; (b) can the dual training experiment be followed.-up and strengthened as an adapted
and credible alternative form of technical education and vocational training; and (c) what is the
outlook for sustainability of NTF activities, given the results obtained during project
implementation?
22.   Overall, the capacities created within DERP, DAC, DETFP and training centers
(technical skills, tools, methods) were below original expectations, but they remain an important
basis for development of strategic thinking and VET system guidance. Also, notwithstanding the
slow progress, there appears to exist in the heart of the "VET community" a consensus on the
necessity of follow-up and strengthening the dynamic of opening the system to the professional
arena and associating the private sector with its management. This will require properly
addressing the sector financing issues (see para. 24). These points constitute remarkable
advances and substantial support for follow-up of the reforms and dialogue in the sector.
23.   The sustainability outlook for dual training is not evident at this stage, because this will
require a firm commitment from the Government and sufficient mobilization of all the actors at
both the central and peripheral levels. The future of dual training activities without external



7
support in the four or five centers remains uncertain. In addition to the technical development
needs of such an experiment (among others the improvement of the didactics of teaching in the
training centers and the establishment of an adequate monitoring and evaluation mechanism),
and the need to proceed with the evaluation of the impact and its cost-efficiency (study
underway), its survival will depend upon the capacity of the METFPA to lead and support the
progress.
24.   With regard to the NTF, the situation is much more unclear and requires strategic re-
thinking. The enormous difficulties encountered in order to dispose of its statutory resources
(notably the training levy), give rise to serious doubts about the sustainability of its activities. In
addition, there is the matter of re-examining the Government's strategy in terms of financing
vocational training to respond to changing technology and the search for increased
competitiveness for the Togolese economy. In the short term, the abrupt halt of NTF activities
risks breaching the still fragile partnership with the private sector, and slowing the emergence of
diversified privately provided in-service training. This point warrants closer examination,
including the re-examination of the role of the NTF. The results of the overall evaluation of the
NTF, which is currently underway, should be helpful.
B.   SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
25.   Total project expenditures amounted to US$9.2 million of which IDA contributed 96%
and the Togolese Government 4%. The latter's low contribution primarily reflects the November
1995 amendment to the Credit Agreement (see para. 9).
26.   A comparative analysis of the actual costs compared with the estimated costs is marked
by the fact that the European Union contribution to the project (23.6%) failed to be mobilized.
The impact of this shortage was essentially observed in the "Flexible Intervention Fund"
component, whose actual cost amounts to US$3.9 million compared with an estimated cost of
US$10.5 million. Overall, the actual costs of the "Institutional Strengthening"  and the
"Personnel Training" components are consistent with initial estimates.
27.   Underestimated costs of some activities and the change in disbursement percentages
following the amendment to the Credit Agreement resulted in IDA's authorization to overdraw
several disbursement categories including:  1 (civil works under part A of the Project); 3
(equipment under parts A, B, and C.1 of the Project); 5 (fellowships); and 6 (incremental
operating costs). It is also important to note that an amount of US$1,291,351 equivalent will not
be disbursed under the "Unallocated" category.
C.   SUMMARY OF FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
28.   At the time of Board Presentation, the following financing percentages were established:
58% of the expenditures would be covered by IDA; 24% by the European Union, and the
balance, or 18% would be covered by the Government. As a result of the country's political
development, the European Union contribution, which was expected to support the NTF



8
activities, could not be mobilized. In addition, the Government's difficulties in mobilizing its
counterpart funding led to a considerable increase in IDA's share of the financing, which reached
96%, compared with 4% from the Government. Detailed information on estimated and actual
costs by category and financing arrangements can be found in tables 7A, 7B, and 7C of this
report.
29.   Project accounts were audited by independent auditors judged acceptable by IDA, and
copies of the audit reports were made available. The financial management of the project was
generally weak, and was marked by the fact that four of seven audit reports were "qualified"
(1991, 1992, 1996, and 1997); reasons for qualification includled weakness of the internal control
system, ineligible expenses, etc.
D.   INIPLEMENTATION S,CHEDULE
30.   Project preparation took two years. The first identification mission took place in 1987,
the Board Presentation on September 4, 1990, and the signing of the Credit Agreement on
October 5, 1990. The Project became effective on January 24, 1991, and closed seven years later
on June 30, 1998, following an 18-month extension in May 1996. Disbursements continued until
November 19, 1998; and the non-disbursed balance of SDR 499,390.39 (US$690,412 equivalent)
was canceled on December 10, 1998. Because of social and financial problems which shook the
country from November 1992 to August 1993, a formal Mid-term Review did not take place.
However, the workshop on the action-research and project planning (which took place in
Nangbeto in March 1995) allowed for a review of overall project objectives, the schedule for
project execution, and the envisaged action plans.
E.   ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
31.   Project implementation was greatly influenced by a variety of factors, some of which
were identified at the time of project preparation (risk analysis). Following are the most
significant:
(a)   The political events of the 1990s
32.   These culminated in a general administration strike from November 1992 to August
1993. This event, which was hardly foreseeable, greatly disrupted the project's implementation
plan and led to major losses in the progress of reform measures, particularly the institutional
development activities of the METFPA.
(b)   Limited capacity of the METFPA to mobilize private sector and professional
organization partners
33.   Although the private sector partners' level of organization and enthusiasm was modest,
given the economic and political crises, the efforts of the METFPA institutions in this area were
not up to the challenge. The gradual establishment of a trusting climate between the METFPA



9
and its principal private sector partners limited project performance in important areas
(operationalization of the NTF and OEF).
(c)   Continuous shortage of funds in the Project's account, attributable to the
weak mobilization of counterpart funds and resources for the NTF.
34.   While the overall portion of the VET in the education sector budget increased slightly,
from 3.6% in 1990 to 5.6% in 1997, financing of counterpart funds, and the mobilization of NTF
resources were a quasi-permanent issue during project implementation, including following the
November 1995 Credit Agreement amendment (see para. 9).
F.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
35.   The Bank's performance was, overall, marginally  satisfactory  during project
identification and preparation, but deficient during project appraisal. The risks were correctly
identified but, in hindsight, the measures identified were insufficient or ineffective to mitigate
these risks. Project implementation was carried out in an uncertain environment which was
further complicated by the high turn-over of local counterparts. Under these circumstances, the
Bank's supervision was marginally effective. In hindsight, however, the Bank's supervision
could have been more proactive. Adequate efforts were made to preserve continuity in task
management and the last task manager has been responsible for the project since 1993. The Bank
also demonstrated understanding and flexibility with regard to the changes which the country
experienced. This took place through the increase in the disbursement percentages for certain
expenditure categories (Credit Agreement amendment dated November 14, 1995, and the 18-
month extension of the closing date to June 30, 1998). The delegation of responsibility, in 1997,
to the Resident Mission and the strengthening of its capacity with regard to procurement matters
have also contributed to improving communications and information exchanges between the
World Bank and the local Project team.
36.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the project preparation phase but
deficient during implementation, due to the factors identified in section E. The frequent change
of ministers (a total of five), and the subsequent instability of key civil servants required some
adjustment periods during Project implementation. A total of three coordinators managed the
Project. Although most members of the coordination team demonstrated their commitment to the
implementation of the Project, their efforts sometimes suffered from a lack of sufficient
leadership in certain key positions, as well as from communication and internal ministerial
coordination problems.



10
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
A.   IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
37.   The Togolese VET system's restructuring process is still in its early stages. Changes in
the system's management are slowly being implemented because traditional beliefs and
behaviors persist; at the same time the introduction of the dual training program appears to be
growing and generating a lot of enthusiasm and expectations. The Project, through its activities
in institutional development and training of the principal actors, created capacity and promoted
this new approach. However, its overall execution and outcome are unsatisfactory given the lack
of achieving the central objective of restructuring the system in order that it be demand-driven
and to improve its relevance and external efficacy.
38.   The primary difficulties which limited the realization of this central objective were
discussed in the preceding paragraphs. However, several lessons for future projects can be
drawn:
* Minimum pre-existing institutional capacity is a determining factor, and was required to boost
a reform as profound as that of the VET.
* Active participation and commitment of the professional partners was essential for the success
of the envisaged VET reform. A thorough evaluation undertaken during project preparation
could have assisted in better gauging the activities, and better phasing the implementation of
the reforms.
* The establishment of need studies is a critical instrument for guiding a demand based
mechanism for training. But, to be effective, such a mechanism requires a change in
substance of training centers' roles, accompanied by a subsequent change in their
management (the autonomy, management by objective/contract, etc.). In the absence of such
choices, there is an increased risk of perpetuating the traditional system. The restructuring of
the CET into CRETFP constitutes a step in this direction; however, greater participation of
professionals in the management of the centers and granting more autonomy are necessary.
* The relevance and efficacy of a fund, such as the NTF, in its roles of financing and structuring
the vocational training supply is primarily a function of its capacity to respond to the demand
for vocational training emerging from the private sector, and the quality of its management
and procedures.  The sustainability of such a mechanismn is demanding, in terms of
institutional and legal framework and the degree of motivation of all actors involved.
* The functionality of the OEF rests on its capacity to develop a large network of actors and
partners. The quality of the institutional framework of the OEF is an important element for
increasing its chances of reaching a sufficient level of credibility and visibility.



11
* Given the difficulties encountered in project implementation, particularly the persistence of
the main risks identified during project preparation, a decision to proceed with project
restructuring would have provided a greater chance for success. An opportune moment would
have been during the Credit Agreement amendment in 1995.
B.   FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
39.   The fundamental objectives of the VET reform supported by the Project are still valid and
deserve to be developed and supported in the framework of an intensified sectoral dialogue. The
short- and medium-term objectives should be: (a) to study the analysis of the results obtained
through the Project in order to strengthen and consolidate its achievements; and (b) to initiate,
based on the analytical work, consultations, and thinking about the sustainability of certain
strategic and operational choices, including the need to streamline the approach, increase efficacy
in the system's management and long-term mobilization of the non-governmental partners, and a
more in-depth account of the role of the private sector in technical education and vocational
training (which represents nearly 60% of the supply).
40.   The initiative taken by the World Bank and Togolese teams in proceeding with the launch
of three important analytical studies (on the dual training experience, the impact of staff training
activities on the system's performance, and the evaluation of NTF activities) are a step in the
right direction. The results will ultimately complement those presented in this report. In the
interim, in view of the project's implementation experience, some themes and questions seem to
be key for future sectoral dialogue:
* Sector financing and the concept of the National Training Fund It is necessary to re-think
the NTF's role and institutional framework to make it a more effective instrument of the VET
system development.  But, prior to this, it will be essential that a clear and sound
understanding and agreement be reached with the Government on the purpose of the training
levy and the required management scheme. The dialogue on this subject should lay the
groundwork for the overall sector financing issue, including the development of the private
VET sector.
* Development of dual training and the challenge ahead. As mentioned above, answers to key
pending questions will be essential to enlighten strategic decisions on future development of
the experience. These relate to the cost-effectiveness and sustainability of the approach; for
example, what is the total cost of training for all actors involved? What are their respective
motivation and expectations? What is the impact on the trainees? etc. In this respect, the
expansion of the system will require that the private sector and professional organizations take
a more active decisionmaking role.
* Sector management and administration. The existence of the METFPA has provided some
visibility to the VET sector in the country. However, improvements in the overall sector
organization and coordination, including coordination with other concerned institutions and
ministries, are needed. This will be an important step in providing a dynamic institutional
framework to support the strengthening and the implementation of the sectoral reforms.



12
Adjusting and strengthening the sector policy. A number of points raised in this report have
paved the way for an in-depth re-assessment of the sector policy aimed at adapting it to the
changing environment and to better responding to the country's economic development.
C.   LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN TOGO
41.  In addition to the sectoral aspects described above (see para. 33 and 34), the project
implementation experience lends itself to some further operational lessons which are important
for the preparation and implementation of future operations. These include:
* Effective functioning of the multi-sectoral coordination institutions and mechanisms.
Particular attention should be paid to these elements during project supervision, and if
necessary should be included in the Credit Agreement covenants.
* Up-stream establishment of key procedures and operational manuals. The availability of
these tools and basic documents before project implementation will help to avoid delays and
facilitate the establishment of a mutual understanding shared by all the actors, a factor which
is favorable for establishing mobilized support for the project objectives.
X Support of reforms and capacities development. A good balance between these two elements
is necessary for successful project implementation. Analysis of this question should include
all of the principal actors (including those from the private sector) for whom motivation and
mobilization are key to project implementation. The phasing of the implementation of the
reforms through successive operations can undoubtedly lead to results which are built on more
solid foundations, and which integrate the time necessary for cultural changes.
* Leadership in support of changes. High level and contimnous leadership in the sectoral
Ministry is a critical factor for project success.
* Monitoring and evaluation activities and follow-up of studies. VET ]projects are very
demanding in terms of monitoring and evaluation activities at both the design and
implementation phases. These activities should be well taiilored to the existing capacity,
including support of TA as required. The development of such capacity should be regarded as
a tool and an outcome, and should receive adequate attention during project execution.
* Programming annual activities. The preparation of an annual budgeted activities programn is a
very strong tool for supporting project implementation and supervision. It requires, on the
part of both the Borrower and the Lender, solid preparation and an in-depth review in order to
provide a framework for smooth implementation of the agreed upon activities.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs (by component)
Table 7B:    Credit Amount (by expenditure category)
Table 7C:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 1 A:  BankResources: Missions
Table 11 B:   Bank Resources: Supervision Missions



14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial         Partial           Negligible        Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                   Ol                0                  0                    0
Sector Policies                           3                0 El                                    0
Financial Objectives                     O                 03                  0                   0
Institutional Development                0                 0                  03                   0
Physical Objectives                      0                 0 El                                    0
Poverty Reduction                        0                 0                   El                  0
Gender Issues                            O                 0                   0                   0
Other Social Objectives                  0                 0                   0                   0
Environmental Objectives                 0                 O                   0                   0
Public Sector Management                 0                 0                  E                    0
Private Sector Development               n                 0                   0                   0
(including non-governmental sector)
B. Project Sustainability                   Likely                     Unlikely                      Uncertain
0                            0                             0
Highly
C. Bank Performance                          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identification                           OE 0                                                      0
Preparation Assistance                   0                           0                             0
Appraisal                                O                           0                             0
Supervision                              El 0                                                      0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Deficient
Preparation                              Ol                          0                             0
Implementation                           O                           O                             0
Covenant Compliance                      0                           O                             E
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                    Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Deficient
O                           0                            0



15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title           Objectives                                   Year of       Status
approval
Preceding
Operations
Cr. 1018-TO      The First Education Project (Cr. 1018-TO, for an     1980        Closed
amount of US$11.0 million, which was approved in
1980) assisted the Government in: (a) improving the
quality of primary education; (b) reorganizing and
strengthening the primary education sub-sector and
teachers' training; and (c) training agricultural
technicians, teachers, and advisors in agricultural
sciences for primary and secondary schools. It also had
the objective of consolidating the overall education
management system.
Cr. 1568-TO      The Education Improvement Project (Cr. 1568-TO), for  1985       Closed
an amount of US$12.4 million, which was approved in
1985) aimed at assisting Togo to: (a) improve
education quality by training 5,850 secondary school
math and science teachers; (b) provide low-cost
primary textbooks; (c) improve the physical facilities
for secondary math and sciences; and (d) improve
education management at all levels by strengthiening
and restructuring the Education Planning Directorate.
Following
Operations
Cr. 2752-TO      The Education Management Support Project's (Cr.      1995       Ongoing
2752-TO for an amount of US$36.6 million which was
approved in 1995) objective is to reverse the rapid
deterioration of the education in Togo following
several yeas of political and social problems and
decade of decline in enrollment and quality. The
overall  objectives  are:  (a)  construction  and
rehabilitation of schools; (b) provision of textbooks;
(c) pedagogical innovations at the school level; (d)
recruitment and decentralized financing of teachers;
and (e) development of sector management tools.



16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project cycle                   Date planned            Actual Date/
latest estimate
Identification                                n.a.                   11/87
Preparation                                  06/88                   06/88
Appraisal                                    07/89                   10/89
Negotiations                                 02/90                   07/90
Board Presentation                           03/90                   09/90
Signature                                     n.a.                   10/90
Effectiveness                                05/90                   01/91
Project completion                           12/96                   06/98
Credit closing                               12/96                   06/98
n.a. = not available



17
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
AMOUNTS
(US$ Million)
Calendar year    Appraisal estimate      Actual amount       Actual amount as
% of estimate
1990                    0.3
1991                    1.1                    1.20                109 %
1992                    2.0                    1.47                74 %
1993                    3.2                    1.75                55 %
1994                    5.6                    2.42                43 %
1995                    8.1                    2.71                33 %
1996                    9.1                    6.21                68 %
1997                    9.201                  7.74                84 %
1998                    n.a.                   9.24                 n.a.
n.a.: not applicable
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimate and Loan database (December 1, 1998) for the actual amounts.
Date of final disbursement: November 19, 1998
Note: Credit original closing date was December 31, 1996, and therefore disbursements should have
continued until April 30, 1997. The total credit amount is based on the exchange rate US$/SDR when
credit was approved. At the time of the closing, an amount equivalent to US$690,412 was canceled.
92.86% of the SDR amount was disbursed.
Note: The total amount disbursed in this table differs from the one given in tables 7A, 7B and 7C because
the source of the information is World Bank Loan database for Table 4 and Project's accounts for Tables
7, and therefore different exchanges rates at different times have been used.



18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Objectives               Key Indicators                      Results/Impact                         Comments
Institutional development  (a) Strengthen the METFPA         METFPA capacities have been strengthened  The structure of METFPA was
of the METFPA,           Directorates, notably: (i) complete the  in several areas:                 established, but the ministry's
improving training quality  reorganization of the METFPA and the  the DERP currently has about 15 trained and  functional efficacy is still limited by
and experimenting with    sector, and attract nongovernmental  knowledgeable civil servants and analysis   the absence of a clear functional
dual training.           partners and employers into the     and planning tools. The Directorate has  chart and inadequate internal
management of the system; (ii)     undertaken about 15 studies which were  coordination and communication
strengthen the DERP capacity in order   useful instruments for guiding the system,    procedures. Also, the restructuring
to provide the information necessary to  including the action-research initiative in the  of the CNPP which was envisaged
guide the VET system's development    central region.                      was not implemented. In addition,
including identifying training needs; (iii) Roughly ten DETP civil servants were  the METFPA did not develop
support the DET/DAFPP in order to    trained in areas such as psychopedagogy,    flexible working relations with
promote dual training at the training  human resource management, certification    nongovernmental partners.
facility level, to improve training  and communication.
program content and ensure monitoring   18 DAC staff benefited from financial and    The development activities for
of the apprentices; (iv) strengthen the    personnel management training, and  procedural tools and modern
personnel management, and the      computer sciences training.             budgetary management tools were
budgetary preparation and monitoring    Equipment: nine vehicles, computers, etc.    not completed prior to project
capacities of the DAC.             and rehabilitation and or establishing offices  closing. The application of the
(DERP, DETFP, DAC, NTF, Coordination).  recommendations from the public
expenditures review may help to
alleviate certain substantive
________________________ _________________________________                 shortages.
The dual training experiment has expanded   The direction, monitoring, and
to nearly all the training facilities and the  evaluation of the experiment was
demand appears to be strong (the number of  weak and vague at the METFPA
apprentices increased from 1,000 in 1995/96  level. The evaluation study which is
to more than 1,500 in 1997/98). This was    underway as of this writing should
accompanied by:                        offer a basis for consolidating the
- Training personnel at the training centers in  system.
the management of this new system (12  The legislation creating the new
facility directors, 10 workshop chiefs and 2   regional consultation institutions and
censeurs).                             they their management was passed,
- The transformation of the CET into the  but are not yet functional (with the
CRETFP.                                exception of the Maritime region).



19
Objectives               Key Indicators                      Results/Impact                         Comments
The evaluation of the application of
Congruity of 18 training programs was  the congruent programs could not be
completed and nearly 400 teachers received  implemented, and the recent opening
training in pedagogy by objective.     of new branches increased the
number of branches without an
institutional and/or official
___________________________________________________________programs.
(b) Create an Office of Employment   The OEF prepared studies on employment    The idea of decentralizing the OEF
and Training (OEF) which would: (i)  and training, but it was not in a position to    activities through supporting
constantly monitor the information  respond to the expectations of its users and   coordination is both interesting and
available on the labor market; and (ii)   partners in the system.          promising. However, important
provide information and data to the                                       links to the institutional framework
training facilities on the relevance of                                    and to coordination of monitoring
their training programs.                                                   activities with the ministry
responsible for employment must be
correctly implemented.
Implementation and       (a) Create a management structure    The NTF management committee was      A study completed in 1997 showed
operationalization of a  for the NTF and implement the       created and is functional, and a procedural   the limits of the staff and the current
National Training Fund    necessary methods and administrative    manual was developed.             procedures and made
(NTF)                    framework.                                                                 recommendations for their
improvement, and increased
participation by the private sector in
the management of the NTF,
including development and guidance
with regard to the vocational training
policy in Togo. The draft texts
prepared have not yet been adopted.
(b) NTF financing of specific sub-  As of the end of June 1998, the NTF had  The plans and projects financed by
projects, especially (i) grants to  financed 138 plans and training projects  the NTF could not be monitored or
between 8 and 20 sub-projects per year  benefiting approximately 5,400 people and   evaluated in-depth (including the
which would lead to training of 500 to   also support the work experience intermships  impact on the beneficiaries). The
1,000 people; and (ii) contributions to   of 350 youths (of which 27 received  problems with the mobilization of
restructuring the VET system and for    employment offers).                counterpart funds and those from the
the participation of employers and pro-                                    training levy limited the
fessional organizations in the training.                                   development of NTF activities.



20
Objectives                Key Indicators                      Results/Impact                           Comments
The NTF also supported dual training    In practice, the support was not
activities in the centers through financing  effectively guided by solid
materials and small tools (machining,   information on the labor market.
welding, etc.)



21
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Year                 Study                                 Objectives                   Status       Impact of the study
1997   Restructuring of the Technical Education  Undertake a review of the system's restructuring. Completed  Basis of discussions for the
and Vocational Training system                                                            ICR and future dialogue.
1997   Evaluation of the NTF               Undertake a review of the operation and the  Completed  Served as input for the ICR
financing activities of the NTF taking into           and brought about
account its objectives and examine the long-term     recommendations under
institutional and financial viability of the NTF; in  consideration for changes in
light of the findings define a future strategy and    the management and the
more appropriate management methods which            tripartite committee of the
will increase the quality, relevance, and efficacy    NTF.
of its interventions.
1997   Development of VET statistical      Provide statistical data to decisionmakers and the  Completed  - Improved visibility of VET
yearbooks for 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994,    different partners of the VET.                   facilities
1995, 1996                                                                                - Rational programming of
the flow of entering and
graduating students,
equipment, personnel, and
facility needs, etc.
1997   Mission report of J.C. Mantes       Evaluate the NTF procedures.               Completed  Recommendations partially
applied.
1997   Mission report of P. Runner         Evaluation of the institutional development  Completed  Recommendations partially
activities including DERP and OEF                    implemented.
1996   Structure, organization, and management  Procedures manual.                    Completed  Applied.
of NTF
1996   METFPA priorities for the end of phase I  Development of training modules in action-  Completed  The study results could not be
of VET and the monitoring and evaluation  research and monitoring and evaluation.         operationalized.
of the action-research experience in the
framework of the Employment and
Training Observatory
1996   Procedures manual for the use of the VET  Development of a guide for use of the facilities.  Completed  Contributed to the
centers and facilities                                                                    transformation of the
technical secondary schools,
the congruity of the former
programs and to the



22
Year                  Study                                Objectives                    Status       Impact of the study
development of new
programs.
1996   Overview of the training and employment - Identify the training needs in the Central  Completed  Led to recommendations for
needs through the methodical approach -  region, in the informal, rural-traditional, and   training projects to be
experimental phase in the Central region   modem sectors                                   submitted to the NTF, to the
- Provide information to the different facilities on   establishment of new
the relevance of their training program based on       programs in the training
existing information                                  centers, and to a research
- Allow the DERP to develop selection criteria in      network in the Central region
order to allocate NTF funds to the training sub-
projects.
1996   Feasibility study of adapting technical    Involve the facilities in the training and  Completed  Led to training and improved
education and vocational training to the   improvement of the apprentices and artisans     relations between the
socio-economic needs                through the dual training system.                      professionals and the artisans
Part A, by M. Baudin                                                                       in the system.
1995   Seminar on the OEF and the NTF /     Introduction to action-research as an      Completed  Guide for the decentralization
Technical education and vocational  employment-training observation tool in Togo.          activities of the OEF.
training - Introduction to action-research
1995   Socio-economic studies aimed at the  - Study the possibilities of an improved balance   Completed  Contributed to the
integration of the VET facilities in the  between the programs, the CRETFP, and the        transformation of the CET
five economic regions in Togo, and in    economic partners in the Maritime, Savanes,        and the technical education
Lome                                Plateaux, and Kara regions and in Lome                  secondary schools into
- Define the indicators for a balance between          CRETFP and LETP
vocational training and the employment
environment in the five regions and in Lome.
1994   VET study mission                    Review of the NTF activities to date,      Completed  - The NTF selection criteria
Operational evaluation of the NTF and  establishment and application of the selection      were revised
OEF                                  criteria of projects to be financed, local capacity    - OEF functionality did not
in technical and vocational training in order to      improve.
prepare future workers in the production,
modem, and informal sectors, and capacity of the
OEF to provide relevant information on the labor
market in order to advise on the NTF and
METFPA activities.
1993   Summary of the evolution of employment Establish the OEF in order to achieve an  Completed  Training session in
_   enterprises in the modem sector in Togo   improved training/employment balance.         identifying the training needs



23
Year                  Study                                  Objectives                    Status        Impact of the study
(1987 to 1991): Baseline data                                                                 and in developing training
plans for personnel managers
of the enterprises, financed
by the NTF.
1993   Transformation of the National Center for  Feasibility study on the establishment of an  Completed  No follow-up.
Vocational Upgrading (CNPP) into a   autonomous institution capable of promoting the
National Training and Vocational     dual training system and making the link
Upgrading Institute (INFPP)          between the qualified personnel needs of the
enterprises and their training according to
operatiopial and pedagogical methods
recommended by the reform of the VET system.
1992   Training of civil servants specializing in   Allow the DETFP staff the ability to develop  Completed  Led to the ongoing
certified evaluation - Training report  techniques for a new coherent certification           establishment of the CQP
system which is adapted to dual training and            (Certificate of Professional
capable of organizing training for the agents in        Qualification).
the testing and certification division.
1992   Monitoring of the VET leavers         Establish a data bank on the leavers with the aim   Not  Not completed due to the lack
of facilitating their insertion into professional life completed   of technical capacity.
and improving the training program contents.
1992   Study on education and training in the  Acquire information and a better understanding   Completed   Specific management training
informal sector and the small entreprises   of the sector, its economic performance, desired  was given to the master
in Lome - Togo                       training, and the educational level of its               craftsmen in order to allow
phase II                             operators.                                              them to better manage their
business, training financed by
NTF
1991   Study on education and training in the  Acquire information and a better understanding   Completed   Specific management training
informal sector in Togo              of the sector, its economic performance, desired         was given to the master
phase I                              training, and the educational level of its               craftsmen in order to allow
operators.                                              them to better manage their
business, training financed by
.   NTF.
1991   Study on computer centers in Lome     - Provide information to different training  Completed  Congruity of the training
facilities on the relevance of proposed computer        programs and costs in these
programs                                                centers.
- Understand the centers' difficulties in obtaining
databanks in the establishment of the OEF.



24
Year                  Study                                Objectives                    Status       Impact of the study
1991   Survey of unemployed VET graduates   - Establish an upgrading strategy in Togo in the   Completed  Establishment of a SAVP
export processing zone                                program for VET graduates.
- Establishment of an improvement strategy,
creation of a databank on young VET graduates
- Develop selection criteria with a view to
allocating NTF funds to training subprojects.
1991   NTF - apprenticeships, training and  Guidelines and procedures.                 Completed  In use.
vocational upgrading in Togo
1990   Development of human resources,      Develop a human resources improvement      Completed  The sectoral program is
technical education and vocational  strategy.                                              partially implemented.
training - sectoral program (1991-1995)
1990   Analyze the employment problem in    Support thinking in the sector in order to assure   Completed  The study's conclusion were
Togo                                 improved integration of social problems into the      not taken into account in the
adjustment policy                                     operational plan.



25
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS (BY COMPONENT)
(US$ Million)
Component                       Appraisal Estimate                     Actual costs
Local Costs  Foreign            %      Local   Foreign             %
Currency   Total          Costs   Currency   Total
1. Institutional strengthening        1.58      2.62    4.20   26.7   3.31       1.05      4.36    48
1.1 . Strengthening of ministries'    1.22      1.79    3.01            2.52     0.70      3.22
directorates
1.2. Office of Employment and         0.19      0.24     0.43           0.24     0.09      0.33
Training                                                                 _                          _
1.3. Monitoring the reform            0.17      0.04     0.21           0.33     0.08      0.41
1.4. Refinancing of the PPF           0.00      0.55     0.55           0.22     0. 18     0.40
11. Personnel training                0.00      1.06     1.06    6.7   0.41      0.54      0.95    10
11.1. Civil Service Personnel         0.00      0.50     0.50           0.08     0.38      0.46
11.2. Teaching Personnel              0.00      0.55     0.55           0.33     0.16      0.49
III. NTF                              4.63      5.34    10.47    66.6   3.85     0.04      3.89    42
111.1. Management committee           0.02      0.00     0.02           0.02     0.00      0.02
111.2. Training Activities            0.28      0.20     0.48           2.27     0.00      2.27
111.3. Training Plan/Project          2.01      2.79     4.80           1.35     0.04      1.39
111.4. Work experience intemships     0.31      0.00     0.31           0.21     0.00      0.21
(SAVP)                                                                    _
111.5. Other unallocated projects     2.01      2.85     4.86       _      ___                     -
TOTAL                     6.21       9.52    15.73    100   7.57      1.63      9.20    100
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs
TABLE 7B: CREDIT AMOUNT (BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY)
(US$ Million)
Category                       Appraisal estimate                   Actual costs
Local     Foreign                Local      Foreign
Costs    Currency     Total      Costs     Currency     Total
1. Civil works under Part A of the      n.a.       n.a.       0.1        0.32       0.00        0.32
Project                                                         ___
2. Furniture under Parts A, B, and C of  n.a.      n.a.       0.1        0.06        0.00       0.06
the Project                                                           _
3. Equipment under Parts A, B, and C of  n.a.      n.a.       0.4        1.08        0.00       1.08
the Project                                                           _
4. Consultants' services                n.a.       n.a.        1.3       0.59        0.17       0.76
5. Fellowships                          n.a.       n.a.        1.3       0.19        1.24       1.43
6. Incremental operating costs          n.a.       n.a.       0.6        1.03        0.00       1.03
7. Goods, services, and works financed  n.a.       n.a.       3.7        3.72        0.04       3.76
under grants
8. Refunding of Project Preparation     n.a.       n.a.       0.6        0.22        0.18       0.40
Advance                                        I
9. Unallocated                         ni.a.       n.a.       1.1
TOTAL                     n.a.       n.a.       9.2        7.21        1.63       8.84
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs
n.a.: data not available.



26
TABLE 7C: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source                 Appraisal estimate                 Actual costs
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Costs    Currency    Total      Costs    Currency    Total
IDA                          2.48    6.67          9.15    7.21       1.63       8.84
European Union               0.86    2.85          3.71
Government                   2.87    0.00          2.87    0.36       0.00       0.36
TOTAL                        6.21    9.52         15.73    7.57       1.63       9.20
Source:: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting for the actual costs
Note: The amount financed by IDA differs from Table 7B due to rounding. The total amount financed by IDA in
Tables 7B and &C differs from the one given in table 4 because the source of the information is Project's
accounts for Tables 7 and World Bank Loan database for Table 4, and therefore different exchanges rates at
different times have been used.
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR)
and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes.



27
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section     Cove-   Original   Revised    Status                       Description of covenant                                Comments
nant   fulfilime   fulfillme
type     nt date    nt date
3.03 (a)     04                             CP       The Borrower shall for the purpose of the Project open and thereafter  Counterpart funds have not been fully
maintain for the duration of the Project in CFA francs and in the name of  available since January 1997, despite
METFP an account (the Project Account) in its Treasury or in such  repeated reminder letters from IDA.
banking institution as agreed upon with the Association, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.03 (b)     04                             C        The Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of
CFA francs 100,000,000.
3.03 (c)     04                             CP       The Borrower shall thereafter deposit into the Project Account on the  Counterpart funds have not been fully
first day of each succeeding quarter an amount equal to the aggregate of   available since January 1997, despite
payments made during the previous quarter for expenditures under the    repeated reminder letters from IDA.
Project not financed from the Credit; and (ii) any additional amounts
necessary to maintain a minimum balance in such account of CFA francs
100,000,000 or other amount acceptable to IDA.
3.03 (d)     04                             C        The Borrower shall ensure that amounts deposited in the Project Account
shall be used only to make payments to meet local expenditures made or
to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and not financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
3.04         05                             CP       The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, appoint and employ   In October 1997, the Project
for the duration of the Project a Project Coordinator having    Coordinator was changed by the
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service acceptable  Minister without any consultation with
to IDA.                                                         IDA. IDA has addressed its concerns
to Government on the risk of changing
Project Coordinator so close to Project
closing.
3. 05 (a)    05                  3/31/93    C        The Borrower undertakes that, unless IDA shall otherwise agree, Grants   Manual of procedures of the NTF has
under Part C.2 of the Project will be made in accordance with the  been adopted and executed.
procedures and on the conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
3.05 (b)     05                  3/31/94    CP       The Borrower shall use the criteria agreed upon with the Association in   Some supervision missions and audits
the selection of Training Projects to be financed under Part c.2 of the  have shown that proposed projects
Project.                                                        were not always demand-driven.
3.05 (c)     05       Nov. 30               (i) C    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General    (ii) No training projects have been
of each              (ii) CP   Conditions, the Borrower and IDA shall, not later than November 30 in   considered during certain years.
year                          each year during Project implementation, exchange views on (i) the
criteria, procedures and conditions referred to in Sub-Sections (a) and (b)



28
Section     Cove-   Original   Revised    Status                           Description of covenant                                   Comments
nant   fulfilime   fulfillme
type     nt date    nt date
of this Section, including the validity and applicability of such criteria in
the light of latest labor market analysis; and (b) the list of potential
Training Projects to be considered by the National Training Fund in the
___________             X______II following calendar year.
3.06 (a)     05         12/31/90              C         The Borrower shall transfer to a single directorate all responsibilities of    DAC is not yet able to fully assume
METFP regarding: (i) personnel management; (ii) the preparation and  this responsibility.
monitoring of recurrent expenditure budgets and (iii) investments in
training institutions.
3.06 (b)     05         12/31/90              C         The Borrower shall furnish to IDA: (i) a sample guide acceptable to IDA,
informing interested parties how to solicit financing from the National
training Fund for Training Projects; and (ii) the recommendations of the
study of informal sector activities being undertaken by DERP's research
I program.
3.06 (c)     09        02/15/91               CD        The Borrower shall present to IDA a methodology satisfactory to IDA  Base study report available but was
for analyzing the employment of graduates of technical education and  not implemented
vocational training institutions.
3.06 (d)     09         06/30/92              C         The Borrower shall furnish to IDA the results of an analysis, based on
the methodology referred in the preceding paragraph, of the employment
of graduates of technical education and vocational training institutions of
the Academic Year 1990-91.
3.06 (e)     09         06/30/93              C         The Borrower shall publish and disseminate in a manner satisfactory to
IDA, the results of an analysis, based on the methodology referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, of graduates of technical education and
vocational training institutions of the Academic Year 1991-92.
3.06 (f)       0        06/30/92              C         The Borrower shall establish a trade certification testing method
_________ _________             acceptable to IDA to replace the Certif cat d'Aptitude Professionnelle.
3.06 (g)     05         06/30/93              C         The Borrower shall merge DET and DAFPP into a single directorate   DETFP created
having structure and functions acceptable to IDA.
4.01 (a)      01                              C         The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records,
procedures and accounts adequate (i) to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and of the
national training Fund; and (ii) to monitor and record the progress of
each Training Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it).
4.01 (b) (i)   01                             CD        The Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to in    All audits have been received with a
paragraph (a) of this section including those for the Special Account for   few months delay. 4 audits out of 7
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing  were qualified.



29
Section     Cove-   Original   Revised    Status                            Description of covenant                                    Comments
nant   fulfilime   fulfilime
type     nt date    nt date
principles, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA.
4.01 (b) (ii)   01                             C         The Borrower shall furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but in nay case
not later than 3 months after the end of such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
IDA shall have reasonably requested.
4.01 (b) (iii)  01                             C         The Borrower shall furnish to IDA such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to
time reasonably request.
4.01 (c) (i)   01                              C         For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the
Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures.
4.01 (c) (ii)   01                             NYD       The Borrower shall retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
____________                              ________ documents) evidencing such expenditures.
4.01 (c) (iii)  01                             C         The Borrower shall enable IDA's representatives to examine such
and (iv)                                                 records and ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.01 (e)      02                               CP        The Borrower has taken steps satisfactory to IDA to implement its Law  Although Law No. 88-17 was passed
No. 88-17 of December 7, 1988 establishing, and providing for the   to meet condition for Credit
maintenance of, the National Training Fund.                         effectiveness, the proceeds of the
training levy have not been deposited
to the National Training Fund
account.
Annex 4 (2)   03                               CP        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for    Borrower has made payments of ihe
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  special account for counterpart
funding in fiscal year 1995. After
notification from IDA, borrower has
reimbursed the relevant amount..



30
Covenant Type:
1. = Accounts/audits                         8. =  Indigenous people
2. = Financial Performance/ revenue generation  9. =  Monitoring, review and reporting
from beneficiaries                       10. = Project implementation
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds    11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
4. = Counterpart funding                            other resource allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project or     12. =Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
executing agency                               regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants                  13. - Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = Complied with
CD = Complied with Delays
CP = Complied with partially
NYD= Not yet due
NC = Not complied with



31
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project cycle         Estimated                Actual
Weeks        US$        Weeks       US$
('000)                ('000)
Preparation to appraisal        n.a.        n.a.       47.5        79.5
Appraisal                       n.a.        n.a.       37.7        65.1
Negotiations to Board           n.a.        n.a.        8.6        17.3
Presentation
Supervision                     n.a.        n.a.      126.6       227.6
Completion                     17.0         21.2       11.5        18.7
TOTAL                          n.a.        n.a.      231.9       408.2
n.a.: not available
Source: World Bank Costs Accounting System (FACT, Deceimber 11, 1998).



32
TABLE llA: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance evaluation
Month/    Number of    Number of    Specialized staff                    Development   Types of
Year       persons        days      skills represented    Impl. status   objectives    problems
Stage of Project cycle
A. To appraisal
Reconnaissance         11/87           1             5        ED
Identification         03/88           2            3         ED, IS
Preparation I          12188           6            14        ED, MGT, VET,
EC, IS
Preparation 11         06/89           1            14        ED
Preparation III        07/89           1             4        EC
Total A                                Il           40
B. Appraisal to Board
Presentation:
Evaluation             11/89           5            18        ED, EC, VET
Total B                                5            18
C. Board approval to
effectiveness
12/90          2             14       EC., RA
Total C                                2            14
Supervision            2/91 a          54           94        DC, ED, EC, FA,         3               3          PDO,
5/98                                  HRE, IS, MGT,                                       PMP,
00, PA, RA,                                        AOF, PP
VET
Completion             11/98           I             4        EC                      3               3          PDO,
PMP,
AOF, PP
Specializations: DC: Division Chief; ED: Education Specialist,, EC: Economist, FA: Financial Analyst, HRE: Human Resources
Economist; IS: Implementation Specialist, MGT: Management Specialist, 00: Operations Officer; PA: Project Assistant, RA: Research
Assistant, VET: VET Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development
Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP:
Training Progress.
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap. = not applicable; n.a. = Form 590
not available



33
TABLE lIB: BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Performance evaluation
Stage of    Month'  Number   Num-    Specialized
Project cycle    Year     of       ber of    staff skills    OS    PDO    CLC    PMP    AOF    PP         TP      TAP    SP       DL
persons    days    represented                                                                           %
Supervision 1     2/91      I         5      RA            1      1       2        I       1       n.ap.  n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.a.
Supervision 2    10/91      I         5      ED            3      3        1       3       1       2       2       2       2      -189.2
Supervision 3     3/92      2         3      ED, DC        3      3        2       3       I       2       2       I       1      6.9
Supervision 4     6/92      I         5      ED            2      2        2       2       1        1      2       1       I      28.8
Supervision 5    11/92      3         3      ED, MGT,    2        2       2        3       2       2       2       2       1      47.2
00
Supervision 6    11/93      2         4      ED            3      2       2        3       3       2       2       2       1      74.6
Supervision 7    2/94       2         7      ED, VET       n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a      n.a     n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a
Supervision 8     3/95      4         7      ED, VET,      2      2       2        2       3       2       n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   73,8
FA
Supervision 9     7/95      3         3      ED, HRE,      n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     n.a      n.a.   n.a     n.a.    n.a.    na.
MGT, VET
Supervision 10    11/95     4         9      ED, MGT,    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
PA, FA
Supervision 11    3/96      2         5      ED, FA, GO,  2       2       2        2       2       2       2       2       2      53.9
DC
Supervision 12    7/96      5         5      ED, 00, FA,   n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
VET,
Supervision 13    11/96     4         5      ED, 0O, PA,  3       2       2        3       3       3       2       2       2      2.6
FA
Supervision 14    12/96     1         4      FA            n.ap.  n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.  n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.
Supervision 15    1/97      1         1      FA            n.ap.  n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.  n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.
Supervision 16    2/97      6         5      ED, 00, FA,   3      2       2        2       3       3       s.o     n.ap.   n.ap.   9.4
EC, VET
Supervision 17    10/97     3         6      IS, 00, EC    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a       n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
Supervision 18    12/97     3         4      IS, 00, FA    3      3       2        3       3       3       n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   15.3
Supervision 19    5/98      6         8      ED, EC, 00,  3       3       2        3       3       3       n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   19.4
VET, PP
TOTAL        I _ _    54             94      _____                                                   _                            _____
Specializations: DC: Division Chief, ED: Education Specialist,, EC: Economist, FA: Financial Analyst, I-IRE: Human Resources Economist; IS:
Implementation Specialist, MGT: Management Specialist, 00: Operations Officer; PA: Project Assistant, RA: Research Assistant, VET: VET
Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development
Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP:
Training Progress.
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory: 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap. = not applicable; n.a. = Form 590 not
available



APPENDIX A
Republique du TOGO
Projet de Restructuration de I'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle
Cr 2174-TO
Mission de la Banque Mondiale-IDA
2-6 Novembre 1998
Introduction
1.    Dans le cadre de la preparation du rapport d'achevement du Projet-ETFP, une
mission de l'IDA conduite par M Rachidi Radji, economiste en developpement
humain a sejourne a Lome du 2 au 6 novembre 1998. La mission avait pour objectifs:
(i) completer les donnees relatives a l'execution du projet; (ii) echanger et discuter
avec l'equipe du METFP et les autres partenaires concernes les grandes lignes de
l'evaluation des resultats du projet et les leqons pour I'avenir, y compris
1'6tablissement d'un plan d'action minimum pour assurer la poursuite des activites
cles du projet; et (iii) discuter les prochaines etapes pour la finalisation du rapport
dont la presentation au Conseil d'adninistration de la banque mondiale est prevue
pour decembre 1998.
2.    La mission a eu des seances de travail avec les equipes responsables des
principales composantes/activites du projet (DERP, DETFP, DAC et le FNAFPP
notamment) pour examiner les aspects techniques de 1'evaluation et completer les
infornations disponibles. Au cours d'un court atelier organise le jeudi 5 novembre
1998, elle a eu l'occasion de presenter et discuter avec les membres de l'equipe
d'evaluation du projet, elargie a deux directeurs de centre de formation (CREFTP de
la region maritime et LETFP de Lome) ainsi qu'aux representants du secteur prive
(patronat, chambre de commerce et d'industrie, ...), les points majeurs qui emergent
de 1'esquisse du rapport d'achevement prepare par l'equipe technique de la Banque
Mondiale. II est important de noter que les discussions ont fortement beneficie de la
presence et la participation active des trois coordonnateurs qui ont eu a animer la
gestion du projet depuis son demarrage.
3.    La mission a egalement eu l'opportunit& de participer a quelques seances de
travail sur les propositions de plan d'operation faites par les consultants (MMl. Baudin
et Boessi) pour le lancement des deux etudes d'Cvaluation de la formation duale et de
l'impact des activit6s de formation des gestionnaires du systeme financees par le
projet. La mission presente ses vif remerciements a toutes les personnes rencontrees
pour leur dif;ponibilite et l'ouverture d'esprit qui a marque les echanges de points de
vue. Les paragraphes qui suivent presente succinctement les principaux resultats de
ces discussions.



Resultats Cles des Echanges.
4.    Points sailUants de l'evaluation   Les discussions ont montri qu'il y avait ur.:
large convergence de points de vues sur l'appreciation des resultats essentiels du
projet et I'cvaluation de ses objectifs ainsi que les principades le,ons que l'on peut
tier de son execution. En particulier, il a et souligne que;
* Ics activit6s du projet ont 6te d'un soutien important et appreciable pour I'amorce
de la restructuration de 1'enseignement technique et professionnel, y compris
l'accompagnement de l'exp6rimentation des approches nouvelles et notamment la
formation duale;
* l'objectif central de reorienter le systeme afin qu'il soit impulse par la demande et
d'amrlio.er sa pertinence et son efficacite exteme n'est pas encore atteint et
necessitera encore des efforts importants de la part de tous les acteurs, en termes
de rationalisation des approches et des outils, d'accroissernent de l'efficacite dans
la gestion du systeme et de mobilisation des partenaires non etatiques. A cet egard,
les resultats limites obtenus dans l'6tablissement d'un Observatoire de I'Emploi et
de la Formation (OEF) fonctionnel invitent a une reflexion approfondie en vue de
l'identification des options alternatives.
3 La perennisation d'un certain nombre d'activites du projet demeure une question
irnportante. La situation du FNAFPP en constitue l'une des plus evidentes et
requiert a la fois une reflexion technique poussee sur la pertinence et 1'efficacite de
l'instrument mais aussi la clarification de la position des decideurs politiques sur le
sujet.
5.    Mesures de soutien aux activitds clis du projet Les discussions ont perrnis
d'identifier les 6lements de ces mesures. II s'agit notamment d'assurer: (i) la
disponibilite des ressources pour soutenir un niveau minimum d'activites du
FNAFPP, en attendant les resultats de l'etude d'evaluation globale prevue et l'avanc6e
de la reflexion inteme et le dialogue sectoriel sur ce theme; (ii); des ressources
budgetaires .aicessaires pour soutenir les activites de formation duale et en particulier
au niveau de quatre a cinq centres ne beneficiant pas d'appui ext6rieur; (iii)l'appui
budgetaire aux activites de collecte des donnees statistiques et socio-econorniques de
la DER.P; (iv) la poursuite des activites essentielles d'harmnonisation et d'adaptation
des programmes de formation; et (v) la maintenance des mat6riels acquis et dont un
inventaire exhaustif devrait permettrc de les prendre correctement en compte au
niveau de la gestion du patrimoine du h{inistere. La mission a not6 avec satisfaction
que des dispositions necessaires ont et prises par les autorites pour assurer la prise en
charge des salaires des agents contractuels cl6s du projet (agents temporaires sur le
budget de I'Etat)
6.    Domaines de renforcement du dialogue sectoriel  Les    domaines    cles
identifies incluent : (I) le financement du secteur, y compris le role du FNAFPP; (ii)
les insturnments de suivi et d'analyse de l'evolution des conditions du marche; (iii) la



professionnalisation du systeme ETFP et le renforcement des liens et partenariat avec
le secteur productif, et (iv) le diveloppement du secteur priv6 de 1'ETFP.
Autres Aspects et Prochaines etapes
7.    Gesdon financere et audits La mission a 6t6 informce que la denuier
demande de retrait de fonds a etc traitee a la fin du mois d'octobre, dans les limites du
d6lai de grice et que tous les marches effectivement ex6cutis avant la date de cloture
du credit (30 juin 1998) ont 6t6 regles. Le rapport de I'audit 1997 a dqja 6t6 tansmis
a la Banque Mondiale, et toutes les dispositions sont prises pour r6adiser I'audit de
1998. n1 a 6t_ convenu que le rapport de ce demier audit ser transmis a l'IDA avant le
15 decembre 1998 au plus tard.
8.    Prochaines Etapes  Compte tenu du calendrier serr6 pour permettre de
finaliser et presenter le rapport au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale le
mois prochain, il a et convenu que:
* le Gouvernement fera parvenir a l'IDA sa contribution et le plan d'action minimum
le 13 novembre 1998 au plus tard;
*  I'IDA transmettra au Gouvernement le projet de rapport d'achevement pour
coxmnentaires le 4 decembre 1998 au plus tard;
* le Gouvernement prendra les dispositions pour communiquer a la Banque
Mondiale, avant le 11 decembre 1998 au plus tard, ses commentaires sur le projet
de rapport. Les resultats de la presente mission devraient permettre le respect de ce
delai.
Fait a Lome, le 12 Novembre 1998
Eo Rachidi Radji
3



Appendix B
Summary of the Government's Report on Project Implementation
Technical Education and Vocational Training Project (Cr. 2174-TO)
According to the Government's report, at the time of project preparation the
Technical Education and Vocational Training sub-sector did not have a good relationship
with the Education sector as a whole for a variety of reasons including planning,
management, and financing. While project design conformed to the national policy, several
lessons can be drawn from the conception experience: in general, the objectives were too
ambitious given the situation in the sector and the original project timeframe (5 years);
specifically, there were problems between the various donors, with the various actors in the
sector, and with the breakdown of the financing of the project categories and components.
In spite of the above, overall, the project had a positive impact on the sector which is
still undergoing changes. While its full impact will not be identified until the medium to
long term, some advances can already be seen.
With regard to the Bank's performnance, the Government notes difficulties with the
Bank's procurement procedures and suggests that seeking non-objections for programs,
rather than specific activities, would have lessened delays in project execution. Additionally,
the report points out that the changes in Task Managers also led to delays, and that
supervision missions and consultations were not as effective as they could have been in
helping to improve Project implementation.
With regard to the Borrower's performance, the Government points out the
difficulties with counterpart funding and the socio-political environment in the country
during project execution.
Several lessons can be drawn from this project:
*  If the institutions involved in project execution are to be sustained, personnel and
institutional expenditures should be borne by the State or other stable means.
*  The DETFP, DERP, and NTF should contact other NGO involved in training in order to
explore other financing avenues.
*  It is necessary to strengthen, in the framework of the OEF, the collaboration of the DERP
with private sector partners and other institutions.
The VET program contributed to a concrete and encouraging improvement in the
management of the technical education and vocation training system in Togo, and also
strengthened the desire for it, despite some constraints and deficiencies during project
execution. The implementation of a new project which takes into account the lessons learned
will strengthen the gains from this project while, at the same time, find solutions for the
remaining problems.



MINISTERE DE LENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE,  REPUBLIQUE TOGOLAISE
DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE        TravailLibert6-Patrie
ET DE L'ARTISANAT
Rapport d'achevement
PROJET DE RESTRUCTURATION DE L'ENSEI-
6NEMENT TECHNIQUE ET DE LA FORMATION
PROFESSIONNELLE/BANQUE MONDIALE
CREDIT IDA N-2174-TO
CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
Novembre 1998



PREACE: IDENTIFICATION DU PROJE   |
Denomination   Projet de Restructuration de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle / Banque Mondiale
Numiro d'identification: Cr6dit IDA 2174-TO
Montant du cr6dit:     Millions US$ 15,73 dont
-IDA                  9,15
-CEE                  3,71
-Gouvernement Togolais 2,87
Dates
Evaluation                        09-27 octobre 1989
Negociation                       16-20 juillet 1990
Approbation                       04 septembre 1990
Signature                         05 octobre   1990
Mise en vigueur                   24 janvier   1991
Lancement du projet               05 f6vrier   1991
Cloture prevue                    31 decembre 1996
Cloture effective (suite a une prorogation)30juin    1998
Coordinateurs:
Ctti Banque Mondiale:
MM. Christopher SHAW et Bernard SALOME (1988 - 1990)
M. Michel WELMOND (1991)
M. Robert PROUTY (1991- 1993)
Mne Bethina MOLL (1993 -1998)
Cote Gouvernement Togolais (METFP)
M. Ambro Y. RAMBERT-HOUNOU (dec.1990 - Juil.1995)
M. Philippe Akoly N. KUDAYAH (Juil. 1995 - sept. 1997)
M. Koudjoulma M'GBOOUNA (sept. 1997 - juin 1998)
1- DESCRIPTION ET DEMARRAiE DU PROJET
1.1 Historique
- Contexte politique : face a la crise economique des annees 80 ayant pousse a la mise en place en
1983 du premier programme d'ajustement structureL le Gouvernement Togolais a commence a
attacher une importance particuliere aux problenmes de 1'emploi ainsi qu'a la promotion d'une
formation technique et professionnelle adaptec au d6veloppement du Pays. II a ainsi cr6e une
Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel (DETP) en 1983 et un Ministere de
l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle (METFP) en septembre 1984.
- Situation economique et sociale : elle est caract6risee, i la veille de la priparation du projet
(1986/87), par: a) une baisse de la demande ext6rieure des produits de base, b) des paiements
importants au titre du service de la dette exterieure, c) une forte augmentation des depenses
I



extrabudg6taires engagees par le Gouvemement, d) des difficultes d'emploi dues, entre autres, a
I'affet du recrutement automatique dans la Fonction Publique.
- Situation et probleimes majeurs: au moment de la preparation du projet, le sous-secteur de
I'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle etait le parent pauvre du secteur de
l'Education et de la Formation avec des problemes d'orientation, de planification, de gestion, de
financement, d'effectif et de qualification du personnel.
- Cadre institutionnel: trois institutions ont participe a l'execution du projet. II s'agit du Ministere
de l'Enseignement Technique, de la Formation Professionnelle et de l'Artisanat, (Ministere de
Tutelle), du Ministere du Plan et de I'Amenagement du Territoire et de la Banque Mondiale.
1.2 Objectifs du projet:
Le projet vise a faire en sorte que le svsteme d'Enseignement Technique et de Formation
Professionnelle soit pousse par la demande et oriente vers l'emploi pour mieux repondre aux
besoins des secteurs productifs. II vise aussi a professionnaliser davantage le systeme de formation
formelle (en developpant l'aspect pratique de la formation technique) et a renover l'apprentissage
(en y renfor,ant l'aspect theorique des programmes traditionnels) par l'introduction du systeme
"dual" de formation qui associe a la pratique dans le milieu du 1ravail la theorie et la technologie
dans les centres de formation.
1.3 Composantes du projet ( les differents volets):
Le developpement institutionnel des Directions du METFP, premiere composante du projet, vise a
renforcer les capacites de planification et de suivi du marche du travailainsi que celles relatives a la
gestion efficiente de l'ensemble du systeme d'ETFP.
La formation du personnel administratif et enseignant, deuxieme composante du projet, vise a
amrliorer les connaissances et performances des differentes categories de personnel des structures
de formation essentiellement.
Le d6marrage d'un Fonds National d'Apprentissage, de Fonnation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnels (FNAFPP), troisienIe composante du projet, vise a soutenir la "double formation"
dans les etablissements a transformer, les activit6s de formation et de perfectionnement du
personnel des entreprises et les Stages d'Adaptation a la Vie F'rofessionnelle (SAVP) pour les
sortants du systeme n'ayant pas trouve du travail depuis un an au moins.
1.4 Organisation et realisation du projet au sein du METFP, ministere de tutelle, et les autres
rninisteres iLmpliques dans l'execation du projet:
Le projet est rattache au cabinet du Ministre et gere par un Coorclinateur nomme. L'executiondes
eiements des differentes composantes du projet incombent aux Directeurs des services centraux et
au Secretaire Executif du FNAFPP sous la supervision du Coordinateur.
Des reiations de travail ont existe avec le Ministere du Plan et celui des Finances dans la
preparation du projet, les negociations, la mise en place des fonds de contrepartie et le suivi du
projet dans ses procedures et son execution. La Commission Nationale des Marches Publics,
composee de representants de plusieurs Ministeres et de plusieurs institutions privees de la place,
est un partenaire privilegie pour les questions de passation de marchds.
2



2 - CONCEPTION, EXECUTION, REALISATION ET IMPACT DU PROJET
2.1 Evaluation de la conception du projet:
Le projet, dans sa conception, 6tait conforme a la politique nationale de formation formulee dans le
programme de restructuraticn du Ministere. Les objectifs sont coherents avec les problemes releves
et les composantes en adequation avec les objectifs.
Toutefois on peut faire les remarques suivantes:
- d'ordre general: les objectifs du projet etaient trop ambitieux eu egard a la situation initiale de
I'ETFP et par rapport au temps prevu (5 ans);
- d'ordre specifique : plusieurs insuffisances ont ete relevees aux niveaux : a) de la concertation et
de la collaboration entre les differents bailleurs de fonds, b) de l'implication des differents acteurs
concemrs par le secteur et c) de la repartition non satisfaisante du financement entre les differentes
categories et composantes du projet ( 6,72% du credit total pour la composante no 2 consacree aux
aspects pedagogiques qui revetent une importance capitale dans une telle reforme), ce qui a entrainm
de multiples reajustements par la suite.
2.2 Principaux resultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes du projet
* Composante no I: Le developpement institutionnel des Directions du MIETFP
11 transparait des objectifs et des actions prevues pour cette composante que la finalite etait
d'accroitre la capacite des services centraux du Ministere a piloter la transformation et le nouveau
systeme a mettre en place. Ainsi, pour les structures existantes ou a creer, I'appui de la Banque
devait porter sur la formation du personnel de conception, I'amenagement des locaux et la dotation
en equipements divers et en materiels et fournitures de bureau:
- La Direction des Etudes, de la Recherche et de la Planifiction (DERP), rendue operationnelle
avec l'Observatoire de l'Emploi et de la Formation (OEF) grice au PPF octroye par la Banque avec
l'appui de quatre cadres superieurs, deux cadres moyens et six agents de soutien, a ete renforc6e
dans le cadre du projet par la formation des cadres existants, le recrutement et la formation de six
nouveaux cadres, le reamenagement et la construction de bureaux et leur equipement partiel en
mobilier. Elle a ete dotee de materiel informatique (8 micro-ordinateurs), bureautique (2 copieurs, I
reprocopieur , 3 machines electroniques et I tel6copieur) et de materiel roulant ( 4 vehicules, 2
motos et une mobylette). Ce materiel est actuellement, pour la plupart, hors d'usage.
Avec I'appui du projet, on compte 13 etudes realisees, une trentaine de termes de referenced'6tudes
non financees, des annuaires statistiques et des bulletins et lettres d'information,un rapport sur le
portrait des besoins de formation dans la region centrale recenses par la methodologie de la
recherche-action. Le rapport sur le portrait des besoins devrait conduire i la preparation de projets
de formation i soumettre au financement du FNAFPP et permettre a la DETFP d'enclencher le
processus de mise en place de nouveaux programmes.
- La Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle (DETFP),
fusion de la Direction de I'Enseignement Technique (DET) et de la Direction de l'Apprentissage, de
la Formation et du Perfectionnement Professionnels (DAFPP), a beneficie d'un renforcement i
travers : a) la fourniture d'equipements et de materiels: 7 vehicules (dont 3 pour la direction, 1
3



pour lInspection et 3 pour 3 etablissements), 26 micro ordinateurs, repartis entre la Direction, les
Inspections et les Etablissements, 9 photocopieurs dont 2 a la Direction et 7 aux Etablissements, 2
reprocopieurs dont I a la DETFP et I a la Direction des Examens et Concours (MENR), 9
t6lecopieurs (dont 1 a la DETFP, 1 8 l'Inspection Lome et 7 dans les etablissements ; b) la formation
du personnel administratif a savoir: 2 cadres en psychopedagogie pendant deux ans au Canada, des
cadres en gestion des ressources humaines, en communication et en documentation pendant deux a
quatre semaines en CMte d'Ivoire, 3 cadres pour la certification pendant six mois en Belgique et au
Canada et l'initiation du personnel a l'informatique ; c) I'entretien du batiment de la DETFP et la
construction d'un magasin pour les matieres d'oeuvres.
L'harnonisation des anciens programmes de formation et I'elaboration de nouveaux ont ete
realisees. On peut aussi noter la transformation des Colleges et Lycees d'Enseignement Technique
(CET et LET) en Centres R6gionaux d'Enseignement Technique et de Formation Professionnelle
(CRETFP) et en Lyc6es d'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel (LETP), la mise en place des
organes de consultation et de gestion aupres de ces etablissements, 1'elaboration d'un guide a
l'usage des 6tablissements et la mise en vigueur d'un reglement interieur au sein des etablissements.
La generalisation du systeme "dual" deformation dans tous les etablissements a la rentr6e 1995/96,
la formation des maitres-artisans, le renforcement de l'image de I'ETFP chez les apprenants et les
partenaires sont des r6sultats a mettre a l'actif du projet.
- La Direction des Affaires Communes fait montre d'une am6lioration relative de la gestion du
personnel, de la preparation et du suivi des depenses budg6taires, grace : a) aux actions de
formation et de perfectionnement de son personnel (Directeur, 3 cadres et 14 agents) en
informatique, gestion financiere et du personnel et maintenance des infrastructures, b) aux travaux
d'extension et d'&quipement de l'immeuble abritant la Direction, c ) a l'acquisition de materiel
informatique (7 micro-ordinateurs), bureautique (1 copieur et 1 machine electronique), d'un
t6l6copieur, d'un vehicule 4X4, et de 2 motocyclettes.
C romposante n 2: Formation du personnel de I'ETFP
La formation du personnel pour la gestion du systeme de formation double est pour une bonne part
assuree. Ainsi ont 6t6 form6s par le projet 12 chefs d'etablissement (deux fois I mois au SEDEP/
universit6 de Liege en Belgique), 10 chefs de Travaux et 2 censeurs (pendant deux mois au SEDEP
en Belgique) en conception du systeme dual de formation, pr6s de 400 formateurs en pedagogie
par objectif, 120 professeurs de comptabiliti en Systeme Comptable Ouest Africain (SYSCOA), 29
formateurs en construction de curricula, 12 formateurs en insertion et employabilite des jeunes
form6s. On note aussi la formation en trois semaines d'une treritaine de formateurs en Conception
Assistee par Ordinateur (CAO) et en Dessin Assiste par Ordinateur (DAO) dans leurs specialit6s
respectives a l'ENSI - UB. Quant a la formation en sp6cialite dans les entreprises, elle reste a faire.
* Composante nD 3: Le Fonds National d'Apprentissage, de Formation
et de.Perfectionnement Professionnels (FNAFPP)
Cette composante a b6nifici6 d'une grande partie (51,3% des pr6visions) du financement de la
Banque. Les principales r6alisations sont les suivantes : construction et 6quipement d'un immeuble
abritant le Fonds; 6quipement en mat6riel roulant (2 v6hicuies et une motocyclette), en materiel
informatique (6 micro- ordinateurs), bureautique, avec I photocopieur, I reprocopieur et I
t6lcopieur, du mobilier et des fournitures de bureau. II a  6 n:crute dix agents contractuels dont
trois ont ben6ficie de stages de formation et de perfectionnement.
4



Ces moyens ont permis de realiser les actions suivantes: elaboration d'un manuel de procedures;
elaboration et diffusion de documents t'inforrnation (depliants) a l'attention des partenaires;
habilitation de 47 cabinets de formation; execution de 138 plans et projets de formation en faveur
de 5449 beneficiaires; dotation des etablissements d'ETFP en matieres d'oeuvres et en materiel de
mecanique generale et automobile, d'ajustage, de soudure ; placement de 350 stagiaires en
entreprises dans le cadre du programme de Stages d'Adaptation a la Vie Professionnelle (SAVP) et
dont 26 ont deja trouve un emploi stable.
I1 est a faire remarquer que les difficultes de recuperation de la taxe d'apprentissage au Tresor
Public ont fortement entrave l'execution des actions inscrites au niveau de cette troisieme
composante. Par ailleurs les demarches pour porter de 7 a 12 les membres du Comite de Gestion,
dans un esprit tripartite et paritaire, sont en cours.
2.3 Coordination etR gestion du projet
- Acquisitions et formations : le bureau de coordination a beneficie, pour son fonctionnement et la
supervision des activites du projet assuree par le Cabinet, d'un equipement en materiel roulant (4
vehicules dont 2 sont affectes au Cabinet du Ministere et 4 motos dont 3 au Cabinet), en materiel
informatique (5 micro-ordinateurs dont 2 hors d'usage), en materiel bureautique (5 photocopieurs
dont 3 affectes au Cabinet, I telex au Cabinet et 4 telecopieurs), en mobilier et des fournitures de
bureau.
Trente et un (31) cadres et agents de soutien ont ete recrutes en qualite de contractuels sur
le credit de la Banque a raison de: 17 a la DERP (parmi eux, 5 cadres ont ete integres dans la
fonction publique), 10 au FNAFPP et 5 a la Coordination (dont I ddmissionnaire). Deux (2) cadres
de la Coordination ont suivi des stages de perfectionnement.
- Responsabilites du coordinateur : les attributions du coordinateur ont ete bien definies dans le
Rapport d'Evaluation mais du fait des trois changements intervenus, elles ont ete interpretees et
appliquees differemment. La gestion du projet a etd ainsi caracterisee par deux styles dominants
dont l'un est participatif et l'autre centralise.
- Relations entre le coordinateur du projet et les decideurs politiques (tous les ministeres
concern6s): les rapports de travail a ce niveau n'ont pas eu a souffrir de contraintes serieuses si ce
n'est l'habituel retard dans les signatures des dossiers. Pour les decisions, les dispositions sont
prises pour faciliter l'execution du projet sauf dans certains cas : versement de la contrepartie et de
la taxe d'apprentissage, exoneration fiscale des marches.
- Relations entre le coordinateur du projet et les directeurs techniques: les relations entre le
Coordinateur du projet et les Directeurs techniques se sont espacees et degradees au cours de
l'execution du projet en raison de la mise en veilleuse du Comite de Suivi, une instance de
concertation mise en place au debut de l'execution du projet. Le manque de formation sur les
procedures de la Banque des Directeurs Techniques pour une execution rationnelle de leurs
composantes respectives a constitue un frein a un travail harmonieux avec le coordinateur.
- Lecons i tirer : pour l'avenir, il faudrait: a) que des la conception du projet, les acteurs et les
beneficiaires soient plus etroitement associes afin de mieux internaliser le projet pour en tirer un
meilleur profit; b) revoir les conditions de financement compte tenu de la defaillance de certaines
sources de financement initialement prevues; c) veiller a ce que les dispositions prises pour une
bonne execution et une gestion rationnelle du projet soient respectees dans tous les aspects.
5



2.4 Inmact du projet dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale deformation
L'impact du projet ne peut etre clairement identifie quta mnoyen et long terme, c'est-a-dire dans
quelques annees. Cependant, on peut relever d'ores et deja: a) une legere amelioration dans le
pilotage du systeme d'ETFP ; b) un plus grand rapprochement dans la collaboration devenue plus
active entre les professionnels et les artisans d'une part et le systeme d'ETFP d'autre part; c) un
dynamisme et une efficacitd plus accrus des acteurs du systeme sur le terrain (chefs
d'etablissements, chefs de travaux et d'ateliers et formateurs) girce aux formations re,ues ; d)
l'implication des centres dans la formation des apprentis par le systeme dual generalise depuis
1995-96 est tres bien accueillie et appreciee dans les regions, de meme que le perfectionnement des
artisans et des autres travailleurs par l'organisation des cours du soir et l'execution des projets et
plans de formation finances par le FNAFPP ; e) une plus grande ouverture d'esprit caracterise le
changement de nientalite observe chez les acteurs et les partenaires du systeme ; f) un renforcement
de l'organisation des artisans pour une meilleure mise en ;uvre du systeme dual en vue de la
formation des apprentis et de la formation continue des artisans eux-memes est observe; g) une
amnelioration de l'inage de 1'ETFP aupres du public entrainant une pression plus accentuee de la
demande de formation pour des capacites d'accueil encore limitees ; h) la participation en 1996 des
populations de la region centrale a la formulation des besoins en formation pour resoudre des
problemes specifiques d'emplois a etd une experience encourageante que la DERP a menee dans le
cadre des activites de recherche-action pour rObservatoire de I'Emploi et de la Formation ; cette
experience merite d'etre poursuivie, etendue et finalisee en aval par des actions concretes de
formation a realiser pour repondre aux antentes des populations; i) des e,udes realisees par la DERP
ont permis au FNAFPP de determiner les secteurs prioritaires et les orientations generales pour ses
interventions ; j) 1'experience du FNAFPP a contribue i promouvoir sur le marche socio-
professionnel un nombre non negligeable de cabinets prives de formation (47) qui creent, par leurs
contacts, un debut de culture de formnation continue aussi bien chez les employeurs que chez les
travailleurs ; k) 1'etroitesse des capacites d'accueil des structures publiques de formation a suscite le
developpement d'institutions privees (une centaine) qui evoluent surtout dans le secteur des services
aux niveaux secondaire et superieur (BTS).
A defaut d'un m6canisme efficace de suivi des sortants diu systeme et en raison du manque
d'indicateurs, il est difficile de se prononcer sur l1'tat d'insertiion professionnelle des jeunes formes;
toutefois, de l'avis de certains operateurs economiques, une amelioration dans ce domaine est
perceptible meme si on attend plus d'effort de la part des employeurs.
Globalement le projet a eu des impacts tres positifs sur 1'ensemble du systeme d'ETFP qui, se trouve
ainsi en pleine mutation.
3- ANALYSE CRIQUE DE LACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDL [LE
DU GOUVREMNT 'ET DE L'AS&SISTANCE ECHNIQUE
3.1 Appreciation de l'action de la Banque Mondiale au cours de l'exicution du projet
- Principales decisions ayant favorise lexecution du projet: on peut noter: a) la prorogation de
la date d'expiration du projet eu egard a la situation socio-politique qu'a connue le Togo au cours
des annees 1991-1993; b) la decision prise par la Banque de commettre des consultants ( Muskin et
Grandbois) pour animer un seminaire-atelier de redynamisation des activites du projet en 1993-
1995; c) I'amendement de I'Accord de Credit ayant permis une reallocation des fonds.
6



- Principales dkcisions ayant freine l'execution du projet: 1'exigence d'obtention d'avis de non
objection pour chaque action A executer au lieu d'un programme d'activites, meme au niveau du
FNAFPP ou apris l'autorisation du Comite de Gestion, instance de decision, la soumission des
dossiers a la Banque engendre des retards dans 1'ex6cution des actions de formation par les
cabinets; ce qui provoque des mecontentements et des frustrations ; non emission d'avis de
decaissement quand un remboursement est fait par la Banque et attendu par le Projet.
- Suivi du projet par la Banque mondiale:
. changement de responsables: les changements successifs ae responsables du projet (5
task managers), depuis la preparation jusqu'a l'expiration du projet, a engendrs des
difficultes d'adaptation et de familiarisation qui n'ont pas toujours favorise la bonne
execution du projet;
. missions de suivi et de consultations: ces missions ont ete favorablement appreci6es
mais elles n'ont accorde que peu de temps au suivi des activites des differentes composantes
du projet ; de plus, les termes de reference des missions ou consultations n'ont pas ete
toujours respectes.
- Lecons i tirer : il serait judicieux: a) de donner un avis de non objection pour un programme
d'activites au lieu d'un avis par action afin de reduire les delais ; b) de donner une responsabilite
plus accrue a la Mission R6sidente dans le suivi du projet; c) de maintenir autant que possible en
poste le meme Task Manager pendant la duree du projet; d) de communiquer et a temps les avis de
d6caissement a la coordination du projet ; e) de prendre en compte lors des missions et des
consultations tous les aspects techniques, administratifs et methodologiques du projet.
3.2 Appreciation de l'action du Gouvernement au cours de 1'exicution du projer
- Principales decisions ayant favorise l'execution du projet: le gouvernement a mis en place les
differentes structures et pris d'autres mesures devant contribuer a la bonne execution du projet a
savoir: a) reorganisation du Departement et fusion de la Direction de l'Enseignement technique
(DET) et  de la Direction de I'Apprentissage , de la Formation et du Perfectionnement
Professionnels (DAFPP) en Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle (DETFP); b) mise en place des structures ayant permis le demarrage du FNAFPP;
c) mise en place du Comite de suivi du projet; d) transformation des CET et des LET en CRETFP et
en LETP; e) mise en place des organes regionaux de gestion et de consultation aupres des
etablissements.
- Principales d&cisions (ou absence de prise de decisions) ayant freine I'ex6cution du projet:
on peut noter les divers problemes lies au versement de la contrepartie, a la r6cuperation de la taxe
d'apprentissage.
- Difficultes de la tresorerie et de la contrepartie du Gouvernement: la situation socio-politique
a entraine des difficultes de tresorerie qui n'ont pas permis au Gouvemement de mettre en place les
fonds de contrepartie prevus dans l'Accord de Cr6dit.
- Suivi du projet au niveau du Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique, de Ia Formation
Professionnelle et de l'Artisanat: si au cours de 1'execution du projet, il n'y a pas eu de probleme
a propos du suivi du projet au niveau du Cabinet, au niveau des directions et du secretariat exicutif
du FNAFPP, responsables de l'ex6cution des composantes, des problemes lies a l'insuffisance de
collaboration et de concertation entre la Coordination du projet et les Directions se sont poses
d'autant plus que le Comite de Suivi mis en place au debut du projet n'a plus continue de
7



fonctionner. D'un autre c6te, les conclusions et recommandations des etudes menees n'ont, en
gen6ral, connu ni traitement ni application.
- Changement(s) de Gou'vernement, s'il y a lieu, et consequences sur le suivi du projet: les
changements de Gouvernement intervenus (S changements de Ministre en 7 ans) ont entravt la
continuite de l'ex6cution du projet et aggrave les lenteurs du fait des differences d'apprehension, des
difficultds d'adaptation, et de maitrise des dossiers par les differents acteurs.
- Principales lecons i tirer : il y a lieu a) de mettre en place ou de concevoir un bon systeme de
gestion transparent et lisible pour le projet; b) de programmer et planifier les besoins du projet en
collaboration et en concertation avec les differentes parties prenantes.
3.3  Evaluation dc l'effcaci*d et de la qualitc des relations entre la Banque Mondiale et Ic
Gouvernement durant 1'cxecution du Projer
11 a cte constate que les relations entre la Banque et le Gouvernement etaient dans l'ensemble
bonnes durant l'execution du projet du fait des rencontres periodiques organisees, des revues a mi-
parcours, des missions de suivi et de supervision, des revues du portefeuille.
Toutefois, certains points des relations meriteraient plus d'attention: missions de suivi mieux
programmees de concert avec les responsables du projet, reaction plus prompte pour les avis de non
objection, envoi a temps des avis de decaissement.
3.4 Evaluation des performances des differentes institutions, bureaux d'ctudes ct consultants
avant participe a la rcalisation du Projet (Cof2s. benefices)
Certaines institutions nationales et internationales (ENSI et INSE a l'Universite du Benin au Togo,
SOFATI et CIDE au Canada, SEDEPtUniversite de Liege en Belgique, ENSTP et CAMPC en C6te
d'lvoire) ont contribue favorablement a la formation des cadres et enseignants du Ministere dans les
domaines divers et varies allant de l'initiation au systeme dual de formation a la formation acceleree
en orientation professionnelle en passant par la formation en matiere d'elaboration de projet
d'6tablissement.
Les missions de bureaux d'etudes (GTI, SAFECO, CCEF...) et de consultants nationaux (Dougna,
Agbodjan, Voulc, Aboki, M'Gboouna ... ) et internationaux (Runner, Muskin, Grandbois, Baudin, St
Aubin... ) ont ete de courtes durces et ont contribue a avancer dans l'execution du projet.
Toutefois, certaines missions meriteraient d'8tre mieux preparies et mieux prograrnmees et les
risultats devraient etre mieux exploites pour rendre utiles et rentables ces interventions qui, par
ailleurs, sont trop onereuses s'agissant de l'assistance technique etrangere quelqu^s fois
inappropriee.
4 - EVALUA*TION ECONOMIlQUE; ET MlANCIERE DU Pii
4.1 Cosft total du rojet
- Privisions de depart et couts reels pour les differentes composantes du projet: le couzt total
du projet est de 15.730.000 US dollars soit environ 4.683.750.000 de francs CFA (1 US S = 285 Frs
CFA en 1990). 11 est a remarquer que cc cout total devrait etre constitue par la pazt de l'IDA (9.15
millions de dollars) de celle de l'Union Europ6enne (UE) (3.71 millions de dollars) et de la
8



contrepartie togolaise (2.87 millions de dollars) mais, faute du versement de la part de I'UJE et vu les
difficultes de mise en place de la contrepartie, le projet n'a dispose que de la part effective de l'IDA
qui a ete absorbec a 84 % environ.
- Valeur et niveau de recouvrement de la contrepartie du Gouvernement : initialement la
contrepartie togolaise est fixee a 2.87 millions de dollars US soit 1.130.900.000 francs CFA. Mais
seule la somme de 133 millions de francs CFA a ete recouvree pendant la duree du projet sur un
montant de 269.000.000 FCFA prevu.
4.2 CoOits recurrents engendris par le projet sur le systemne deformation
Les coOts recurrents engendres par le projet sur le systetne de fornation peuvent etre estinims a trois
cent millions (300.000.000) de francs CFA environ representant l'acquisition de matieres d'ceuvre
au profit des etablissements de formnation (140.000.000 F), I'assurance et 1tentretien des vehicules et
autres equipements acquis par le projet (20.000.000 F), l'elaboration et la revision des programmes
(15.000.000 F), la formation des inspecteurs et des conseillers d'apprentissage (100.000.000 F),
1'equipement de nouveaux bureaux amenages (25.000.000 F).
4.3  Consequences previsibles de la fin du projet sur les structures institutionnelles mises en
place dans le cadre du projet.
On peut noter la suspension previsible des activit6s aux niveaux: a) de la DERP et de l'OEF si I'Etat
ne prend pas en charge les 13 agents precedemment supportes par le projet; b) du FNAFPP si l'Etat
ne verse pas, et ceci riguli6rement, la taxe d'apprentissage.
4.4 Lecons a tirer
Les le9ons a tirer dans cette evaluation sont le suivantes:
- Lorsque les structures impliquees dans 1'execution d'un projet doivent etre perennis6es, il est
souhaitable que le personnel de ces structures soit pris en charge par le budget de lEtat ou par des
ressources stables (cas de la DERP et du FNAFPP);
- La DETFP, la DERP et le FNAFPP ont la possibilite d'entreprendre des contacts avec les
differentes Organisations non gouvernementales intervenant dans la formation, en vue d'explorer
d'autres pistes de financement;
- II est necessaire de renforcer, dans le cadre de l'OEF, la collaboration de la DERP avec les
partenaires du secteur prive et d'autres structures, en l'occurrence la Direction Nationale Pour
l'Emploi (DNPE), et de mener des reflexions sur sa denomination et ses liens avec la DNPE;
- Pour une evaluation economique ct financiere exhaustive du projet, il serait plus judicieux de
commettre un cabinet d'etude.
5 - PERSPECTIVES ET UTILITE D'UN NOUVEAU PROJET
5. 1 De ce qui precede, il convient de noter gue les lacunes et insuffisances suivantes peuvent itre
relevdes:
- capacite d'accueil des structures de formation tres limit6e par rapport aux besoins exprimes et
potentiels dans les r6gions d'implantation, d'oui I'impossibilite pour les beneficiaires potentiels des
autres localites d'y acceder;
9



- la professionnalisation de i'enseignement technique et la renovation de l'apprentissage ne sont qu'a
leur ddburt et doivent etr poursuivies;
- insuffisance de l'analyse des besoins de formation;
- faiblesse du pilotage du systeme.
5.2 Ces iicments constituent de viritables motifs pour un nouveau programme de renforcement
de la restructuration du systime de I'ETFPA avec comme grands axes:
- Amdlioration des capacites d'accueil (structures, infrastructures, equipements et materiels
p6dagogiques);
- Professionnalisation de I'Enseignement Technique et renovation de l'apprentissage ( poursuite des
actions commencees): formation des encadreurs et formateurs. revue des filieres et programmes,
methodologie de la formation, autres aspects pedagogiques dont l'orientation professionnelle;
- Renforcement de la DERP avec redynamisation de l'OEF (recensement et analyse des besoins de
formnation, recueil des donnees statistiques, renforcement de l'information et de la documentation);
A Ampui institutionnel et r6organisation de toutes les strutures centrales et decentralisees de
pilotage du systeme;
- Suivi des sortants du systeme et appui a leur insertion.
6 -CONCLUSIONI
Le projet ETFP/BM, credit IDA N2 1 74-TO, a contribue a une amrlioration certaine et
encourageante de la gestion du systeme d'ETFP au TOGO et a renforce l'engouement pour la
formation technique et professionnelle, malgre quelques contraintes et insuffisances observees ca et
1a au cours de son execution.
Le systeme dual de formation introduit pour la renovation et I'arnelioration de l'apprentissage est
une innovation majeure qui a constitue l'un des points focaux de la restructuration du systeme
d'ETFP. L'amorce de ce svsteme de formation doit se poursuivre par un renforcement des relations
avec le secteur prive formel et inforrnel pour mieux cerner I'addquation formation/emploi, qui peut
se reveler un voeu pieux si de nouvelles dispositions ne sont prises, au vu de l'evolution actuelle du
contexte et eu egard a la faiblesse des moyens mis en a:uvre.
La mise en place d'un nouveau projet, qui prendra en compte les le9ons tir6ecs de Itex6cution du
precedent, perrnettra de consolider les acquis de cc deinier tout en apportant des solutions aux
probilmes restes en suspens.
10



IBRD 29364
0'                                                      C 0                               M AL I
 ug d90o               BURKINA FASO
NIGER
DAPAONG        BMo                                               _'         FURKINASO             I'
7  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~FASO
{    (R    Bur9ou    /                                                           f    'k~F 
.    BENIN -
I \    W   j    B E N  I N                              GHANA                      NIGERIA
\\#u*^> \2092 GcnrJo-- > fi     i
10'  K                    'ont~ --                      10f ,/          Gulf of Guineo
- 10,                                                     K-4t/   ;.x, .lo_                           2
GHANA                                                             I                            2'
<     ~           ~          ~         ~~~~~~ .. irkf A.
\ s5GuerinkouFc t;pogoon$ ueo
'                   t            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ch,ichco e  
S  '              <1 vARA!                               T O G O
iI,           """Awe /o A01Al      i               -               ROADS
ROUTES PRINCIPALES
............SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES CHOISIES
-    -,                      "~~~~~~'~~~   MAIN RIVERS
9'                                    )GKGDE(                                                      COURS D'EAU IMPORTANTS
N                              \                               /  { SELECTED TOWNS
0     VILLES CHOISIES
~~~~ ~~PREFECTURE CAPITALS
CHEFS'LIEUX DE PREFECTURE
gg  I           0)  t  |  v;z    REGION CAPITALS
CHEFS-LIEUX DE REGION
^9     \                    Ad~~~~~~~ Soteube,w1w 
s                4           5              t \         *     c~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAATIOANLAL CAPITAL
CAPITALEAIALI
'                                                          If t   25   \   ({   . - - PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
'U X                       81dM                                             LI it  LIMITES DE PREFECTURES
,)bv-/                                   ' ,) I1 \ \ , |  -    -- REGION BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DE REGIONS
8   ~~~~~~"          S                         Lo~~~~~~~~ngbe                     INEN,TONLBOUNDARIES                        8
1                                           It  iz\ tonsfoo  >\t  |  --FRONTIERESINTERNATIONALES     8-
$             K! C   H   }    ?9   JThis map wos prepared by   !
~~'K,  ~~~B deuAAP                                                            the Mop Design Unit of the
world Bank, The                      rT
~~""  ~~""  Ci'~~~~        An,Ienie   ~~ ~~KPMI?boundaries, olors, 
""\2>"3  ';   tC            ,\             -           mic^< vT                   AKPAME g      \denominations ond ony
on this map do not
I                           I               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imply, on the port of
. Xv   g  'c   j   /(  Z    t        i       "        The World Bank Group,
~~~~~ G~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~~any judg7ment an the legol
j                                                        - -,     /  )  --  |   ,    5status of any territory,
74c )<*   >J                                                                    or acceptance of such                   7_
5                   Kon /-                   -.- t ;AtKp                        boundaries.
A     /                     t     \ A    oo      N IH7                                                        ioo
AI,ope             25   ~~~KILOETR
1sy/P/ 1/ < <~~~~Vgon                                         _       _,1'-4
TJ A
JANUARY 1998



