Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ON A                   Report No: 19838
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P008204
L/C NUMBER: 32700; 3270A; 3270S
January 13, 2000
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Bolivar (B)
B 637.00= US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0016 = B 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORDIPLAN             Ministry of Coordination and Planning
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IEC                   Information, Education and Communication
INN                   National Institute of Nutrition
FONVIS                Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment
FUNDAESCOLAR          School Fund (Fundaci6n Escolar)
MINFAM                Ministry of the Family
MOE                   Ministry of Education
MOH                   Ministry of Health
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
OCEI                  Central Office of Statistics and Information
OTC                   Technical Coordination Office (Ministry of the Family)
PAHO                  Pan-American Health Organization
PAMI                  Expanded Maternal-Child Health Care Program
SAL                   Structural Adjustment Loan
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Country Sector Leader:   Constance Corbett
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Willem Struben



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3270-VE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                6
6. Sustainability                                                                    8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  11
9. Partner Comments                                                                 12
10. Additional Information                                                          20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Assessment Results                                             31
Annex 9. Supplementary Project Data                                                 45
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Willem Struben (consultant, LCSHD), with the help of Messrs./Mmes.
Federico Joubert, Bethania Blanco, Maria Elena Anderson and Pablo Schneider (consultants), with
production assistant from Mr. Cesar Granados (LCSHD). The Beneficiary Assessment was carried out
by local consultants with the help of Ms. Ximena Traa (consultant). It was reviewed by Ms. Constance
Corbett (Country Sector Leader, LCC4C) and Mr. Bruce Carlson (Task Manager, LCCVE).
A Bank completion mission took place in November/December 1998. The report is based on the
findings of this mission, as well as on material in the project file, discussions with representatives of
the Borrower and the Bank, and a beneficiary assessment carried out in 1999. The Borrowed
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing the comments presented in Section 9, and
supplementary data presented in Annex 9, compiling statistical data, commenting on the draft ICR,
and contributing to the preparation of the Beneficiary surveys (Annex 8). Final comments were
delayed because of the change in Government and some senior project managers in February /March
1999 and the need to complete the beneficiary assessment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008204                                       Project Name: SOCIAL DEVT
Team Leader: Constance A. Corbett                         TL Unit: LCC4C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 11, 2000
1. Project Data
Name. SOCIAL DEVT                                       L/C Number: 32700; 3270A; 3270S
Country/Department. VENEZUELA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: HB - Basic Health
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/13/89                                 Effective: 03/01/91           09/30/91
Appraisal:  05/07/90                                  MTR:
Approval:  11/29/90                                Closing:  12/31/96            06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Republic of Venezuela/Ministry of the Family; Ministry of Health; Ministry of
Education; Ministry of Planning and Coordination (CORDIPLAN); Central Office
of Statistics and Information (OCEI); Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment
(FONVIS) (Financial Administration)
Other Partners:  United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (Procurement/Administrative
Assistance to Borrower)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Andres Solimano                            Ping Loh
Sector Manager:      Xavier E. Coll                             Robert Drysdale
Team Leader at ICR:   Bruce Carlson                             Cecilia Valdivieso
ICR Primary Author:   Willem Struben
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
To assist the Borrower in developing a social sector strategy to redirect its social expenditures into
well-targeted and efficient programs within the framework of the Social Sectors Action Program (SSAP).
The SSAP had the following objectives: (a) improve the living conditions of the poor and vulnerable
population, specifically pregnant and lactating women and children under six years of age, while mitigating
the potential adverse impact of the adjustment program; (b) replace indirect subsidies with targeted social
programs, while improving their efficiency and rationalizing their distribution; and (c) promote
institutional development by improving the planning and management capacity of the Ministry of Health
and Education, as well as the capacity to target, develop and monitor social programs in the Ministry of the
Family.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No change.
3.3 Original Components:
Rating      Component            Sector     Cost
U   Primary Health Care         HY      231,300,000
S   Pre-School Development      EP       54.900,000
Infonnation, Education &
U   Communications              XX       10,100,000
S   Institutional Development   xx        9,700,000
Total           306,000,000
3.4 Revised Components:
n/a
3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR rating: Unsatisfactory.
With hindsight, the scope of the project was too broad and its development objectives overly ambitious in
light of the political context at the time and the Borrower's lack of experience with Bank policies and
procedures. A more narrowly focused objective and simpler design minimizing the need for complex
inter-institutional coordination would seem to have offered a better chance of success. This might have
been done through a series of separate single-sector projects. A second alternative might have been a social
fund-type approach, such as that taken in other Latin American countries at that same time.
With respect to composition of project design and thoroughness of analysis, project preparation lacked
adequate definition of the institutional arrangements for project execution and financial management of this
complicated multi-sector project. As the project was intended to mitigate the social impact of adjustment,
there was a strong perception on the part of both the Borrower and the Bank that initiation of project
activities, in parallel with the implementation of the SAL, was extremely urgent. It was thought that
detailed management arrangements could be worked out at the start of the project. This turned out to be a
mistake, and project implementation was hampered throughout execution by organizational, managerial and
financial problems. A public administration/management specialist should have been involved in project
design and appraisal, as well as throughout supervision. Both the Borrower and the Bank were overly
optimistic about the ability of the MOF to coordinate and facilitating a complex project involving two other
major actors, MOE and MOE, each of which had their own agenda that frequently took precedence over
-2 -



those of the project. An attempt was made to compensate for the lack of readiness of implementation
arrangements by incorporation of a condition of effectiveness. However, arrangements presented in
compliance with the condition proved inadequate.
The Loan Agreement specified that progress under the Government's Social Sectors Action Program would
be reviewed annually as the basis for setting spending targets in the following year. This provision proved
insufficient; Bank financing, as well as Government counterpart spending were included in the overall
budget, and overall spending on the social sectors fell short of projected levels during the project period.
Provision for a Mid-Term Review was not included.
While formal economic analysis was not included in the project documentation, quantitative estimates of
expected benefits were provided. Coverage of the pre-school component was overestimated, leading to
overestimation of overall benefits.
Risks. The SAR identified the Borrower's lack of experience with international bidding in general, and
Bank procedures in particular, as the major risk facing the project. Provision of technical assistance and
seminars in procurement and disbursement procedures were considered adequate to overcome these
weaknesses. Much was left to intensive supervision as a way of overcoming inherent weaknesses. In the
event, frequent turnover of ministerial and project management staff nullified the effect of the project
launch assistance provided early on.
The complexity of project design itself, and the additional burden it would place on the weak institutions
involved in implementation was not mentioned as a risk. This proved to be the major obstacle to project
implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objective of helping the Government refocus and improve its social policies and operational
programs aimed at vulnerable groups, in particular programs in pre-school education and health and
nutrition for pregnant and lactating women and children up to six years of age, was only partially achieved.
In particular:
*   Improved Living Conditions. Although the project's supplemental food component was
substantial and did have an initial positive impact on the malnutrition coefficient, the other
components did not make a substantial difference, and the country's current social indicators are
generally worse today than at the start of the project. Despite the minimal physical impact,
however, the pre-school component has established a basis for a realistic and potentially
substantial and sustainable development of pre-school education, particularly with the help of
NGOs and the beneficiary communities themselves. In addition, a large number of health centers
has been provided with adequate equipment, again helping the poor.
*   Targeted Subsidies. The Government did increase its targeted social programs at the expense of
in direct subsidies, but the targeting was broad-ranging and far from perfect. It is true that
supplementary nutrition, health center equipment, and pre-school education efforts were all aimed
at the poor, by definition, but it is also true that the policies did not achieve the targeting of the
Government's limited resources to the relatively most vulnerable groups and regions. Nutrition
- 3 -



programs were only in more recent years channeled through the health centers, and medical
equipment was only very recently allocated to under-served health centers. Pre-school classrooms
have been established using targeting mechanisms developed on the basis of a study carried out in
1993. This should also be of use for future efforts.
a   Institutional Development The project's aim to strengthen the planning and management
capacity of MOH and MOE, as well as MOF's capacity to design, plan, implement, and monitor
social programs, was only partially achieved. MOH was not affected, mainly because the
substantial PAMI program was outside its control, because the medical equipment component
managed by MOH was relatively minor, and because of a seeming lack of interest on the part of
both MOH and MOF in having the OTC components provide policy and operational efficiency
advice to MOH. MOE was barely affected. Again, there was very little project advice on the more
efficient operation of MOE's project activities coming from OTC, seemingly also because of
MOF's own pre-school activities. In addition, the initial cooperation between
FUNDAPREESCOLAR and MOE's responsible directorate-general was poor, and the component
was relatively small to begin with. However, this component did eventually have some impact on
MOE's pre-school policies and an agreement that future sub sector activities should aim at the
substantial involvement of communities and NGOs. MOF itself was strengthened, particularly in
its role as the technical secretariat of the Social Cabinet, including the new directorate-general for
social development and recent government moves to reach out to NGOs and involve the mayors in
social policy setting and operation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Pre-School Component. This component, managed by the Preschool Fund (FUNDAPREESCOLAR),
aimed to provide about 112,000 children between the ages of 4 and 6 from low-income families with access
to pre-schools through the construction and equipping of 1,600 formal classrooms and 185 non-formal
classrooms, the latter with community and NGO participation. However, only 804 formal and eight
non-formal classrooms were completed, providing access to only an additional 27,000 children each year,
or two percent of pre-school age children without access to pre-school education. The marginal increase in
access was partly the result of an over-estimation during appraisal of the number of children per classroom;
the appraisal projected 57 children for formal classrooms and 152 children for non-formal classrooms, the
actual figure turned out to be 34. In addition to the issues mentioned in the previous paragraph,
construction and equipping were also affected by high inflation during most of the implementation period,
with extraordinary increases in construction costs. This was compounded by the substantial and
time-consuming land acquisition problems experienced by the component, and the long delay in reaching
agreement on a non-formal classroom approach. On the positive side, the pre-school policy has now been
properly designed and is officially endorsed by the Ministry of Education (MOE), both formal and
non-formal classrooms, targeted to serve children of low-income households, are operating, and the
non-formal pre-schools managed by the communities and NGOs are a good model for sustainable
development. In addition, over 52,000 participants benefited from training programs for pre-school
teachers, and the various sector-related studies proposed under the project were completed (Annex 1).
Primary Health Component This component, managed by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the
Expanded Maternal Child Health Care Program (PAMI), aimed to fund medical equipment, vaccines, food
(milk), and nutritional supplements, as well as contraceptives for 955 rural and urban health centers. In
addition, it was to finance the rehabilitation and construction of warehouses, vehicles for supervision,
computer equipment for the health centers, and training for health center personnel. During 1992 and
- 4 -



1993, about US$15 million in equipment was acquired for the health centers, but was partly diverted to
small hospitals. In 1994 and 1997, the project provided vaccines, medicines, and other health center
inputs. It also helped carry out a campaign in 1994 to eradicate measles, covering all children between the
ages of 9 months and 15 years. In 1997, the component was redesigned, and it was agreed to target US$22
million in new equipment, medicines, contraceptives, vehicles, and other inputs to 303 health centers in 10
states, to be procured with the help of UNDP. By late- 1998, this was mostly achieved. PAMI was
responsible for food distribution, which was fully financed from Government funds. PAMI reports to have
spent US$409 million (excluding the cost of warehouse rehabilitation and personnel), or more than double
the amount estimated at appraisal. The program reached a peak in 1992 and 1993, and resulted in
increased health center attendance, but its budget (and consequently, its coverage) was substantially
reduced in 1998. Contrary to agreements reached at negotiations, food distribution was not targeted to
high-risk groups in a limited number of states, leaving some very poor areas without coverage, despite the
high spending levels. Training of health center personnel only started in 1997, when the Government
signed an agreement with the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO). There was some progress in
improving recording of health services, but this was done by the Ministry of the Family (MOF), not by
MOH. Overall, despite increased commitment on the part of MOH in recent years, the project did not
succeed in increasing health care coverage and nutritional interventions. Health indicators for 1995, the
last year for which statistics are available, show a higher number than projected for pre-natal services and
infants less than two years old, but a very low level of post-natal services and coverage of pre-school-aged
children. Immunizations did not increase as projected. Family planning services are up, but cover only 12
percent of the population demanding those services (Annex 1).
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Component This component, managed by the
Technical Coordination Office (OTC) under the Ministry of the Family, experienced substantial delays and
other problems. The OTC, in its capacity as project coordinator and facilitator, aimed to carry out studies
and provide technical assistance for improving the impact of the implementation of the pre-school and
primary health care components. However, during the first six years of the project, the component
provided only for basic studies to help design appropriate communication strategies, as well as some
learning materials for preventive health education. Only during the last two years was an IEC concept
developed. Nevertheless, the concept (labelled "family values") is quite general and does not provide the
implementing agencies with a concrete and operationally useful communication strategy. The component
never focussed on the specific needs of the MOE and MOH with regard to pre-school, health, and nutrition
policies and practices aimed at the most vulnerable groups. On the positive side, the component did
provide pre-school books, and some learning materials on education, nutrition, and family strengthening
(Annex 1).
Institutional Development Component This component, also managed by the OTC, in cooperation with
the Central Office of Statistics and Information (OCEI) and the Ministry of Coordination and Planning
(CORDIPLAN), has shown more positive results. Particular achievements include various studies,
definition of the role of MOF as technical secretariat for the social cabinet, and recent Government efforts
to involve the mayors and NGOs as representatives of their communities, in reviewing the objectives and
results of crucial social sector Government programs. The studies have provided useful data on the social
sectors in general and poverty in particular and are a basis for future social sector program targeting. The
project also helped to strengthen the Venezuelan Social Investment Fund (FONVIS), which was contracted
to manage the project accounts, and provided equipment for OCEI, MOL, and MOF. Therefore, despite
the lack of impact on the implementation capacity of MOE and MOLT the component can be considered to
have been reasonably successful.
-5 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Public Sector. As mentioned above, the project's contribution to institutional development was marginal
at best. In MOE, the creation of a separate foundation ( FUNDAPREESCOLAR) to implement its
component seemed a good solution at project design to by-pass some of the bureaucratic restrictions of the
Ministry itself However, although this did facilitate funding, it also created problems, stemming partly
from resentment on the part of MOE's Pre-School Directorate, which felt that FUNDAPREESCOLAR
was encroaching on its territory. Early on, there was little or no technical coordination between these units
on educational materials, studies, and technical assistance. Moreover, there was little help from OTC,
since it was felt that FUNDAPREESCOLAR was competing with MOF's own non-formal pre-school
program. Eventually, a better relationship was established, and the component has contributed to a
somewhat better set-up in MOE. This is not the case in MOH. At project design, it was decided to set up
a separate foundation, PAMI, to overcome some of the major bureaucratic hindrances anticipated. This
was resented by the Ministry itself, however, and resulted in the separation of food distribution under
PAMIN from the health service provision activities under MOH itself, with little coordination between the
two. Although the number of health center beneficiaries increased in response to the increased provision of
food, this was not paralleled by a corresponding increase in health services. In addition, despite a
somewhat better focus of PAMI's program at the end of the project, there are still major inefficiencies in
the country's food distribution to the poor. In addition to the small, long-term improvement in MOE, the
project also contributed to the strengthening of MOF, OCEI, and FONVIS, both through equipment and
technical assistance. In MOF, in the context of the last Government's Agenda Venezuela, there is now an
experienced department dealing with social programs, as well as a recent outreach to mayors and NGOs.*
These, combined with the collection of relevant social sector data, should assist the Government in
designing an effective long-term follow-up aimed at the poorest.
Private Sector. As mentioned above, the pre-school component contributed to gaining at least some
experience with non-formal classrooms managed by NGOs and communities. Despite the limited number
of classrooms established so far, this approach appears promising and sustainable.
* The current Government has placed coordination of the social sectors under the new Ministry of Health and
Social Development, eliminating the MOF.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The MOE component experienced significant cost increases in civil works due to high rates of inflation
during most of the project years. All components were affected by changes of leadership and management
at all levels. The MOH had five different Ministers during the project period. The health component was
also seriously affected by several lengthy strikes by health service personnel, which had a serious impact on
- 6 -



the provision of primary health care.
Project implementation was definitely affected by lack of adequate attention from the Bank. Departmental
responsibility for Venezuela shifted three times during the project period. The resulting frequent turnover
in Bank managers responsible for Venezuela resulted in loss of institutional memory and contributed to
inadequate oversight from senior Regional Management within the Bank.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A number of problems and delays could have been prevented by timely decisions and/or action on the part
of the Government. During the initial years, all staff showed a lack of knowledge of Bank procurement
procedures. The changes of Minister mentioned above were frequently accompanied by turnover of
managerial and technical staff, resulting in loss of any knowledge developed in this area. In addition, the
Government's own cumbersome budget and contract procedures greatly contributed to delays and cost
overruns; budgets were cut and contract approvals and payments were extremely time-consuming.
Moreover, the Government did not allow the implementing agencies direct access to the Special Account,
nor did it permit direct payment by the Bank of local contracts. (This was greatly alleviated in 1997, when
UNDP was contracted to manage the procurement of goods and services for PAMI and OTC.) Combined
with the impact of inflation, these delays contributed to an almost six-fold increase in the unit cost of
classrooms, rising from an estimated US$9,500 at appraisal to US$54,000 in late-1998.
Both the education and health components were negatively affected by the institutional jealousy between
staff in the respective line ministry and the semi-autonomous agency set up to carry out key activities
(FUNDAPREESCOLAR and PAMI, respectively). In both cases, attention from the minister and his
senior staff could have helped solve the problem, but no action appears to have been taken by either MOE
or MOH management on this matter.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
n/a
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the Government's request, the project was restructured in April 1997, at which time the closing date was
extended by 24 months and US$15.0 million was cancelled from the original loan amount of US$100
million. The closing date was subsequently extended twice, for a cumulative total of 30 months. The final
closing date was June 30, 1999. At closing total disbursements reached US$84.6 million (of which about
US$84.0 million was fully documented by the date of this report). Total project costs amounted to about
US$501 million, compared to about US$321 million projected at appraisal (Annex 2). Most of the
increase is accounted for by a more than doubling in the food purchase and distribution program managed
independently by PAMI and Government funded. Excluding food purchases and distribution, however,
total spending averaged only 71 percent of appraisal estimates. Bank financing was estimated to account
for about 31 percent of total costs at appraisal (77 percent excluding food). At project completion, Bank
financing represented about 17 percent of total costs (91 percent excluding food).
- 7 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As designed and implemented, the project would only be partly sustainable. The prospects of the MOE
component look most positive: there have been no problems in getting pre-school teachers assigned to the
new classrooms, thus ensuring adequate educational services, and classrooms were designed and built with
materials requiring low maintenance. The main achievements have been: (a) the design and operation of
workable formal and informal pre-school models, including in the latter NGOs and communities; (b) the
development, with the help of local universities, of a successful teacher-training model, which the MOE has
now adopted for primary teacher training as well; and (c) the design and implementation of a methodology
to target pre-school investments, which can also be used for other social sector planning. In contrast, the
prospects of sustainability of the MOH/PAMI component are doubtful. Much will depend upon the current
administration's interest, as well as recent efforts aimed at decentralization. For the limited progress to be
sustained, however, would require at least an increase in the work hours of medical personnel (currently
only 1.4 hours daily for doctors and 2.2 hours for nurses) as well as proper funding of equipment provided
for the health centers.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Possible follow-up activities depend upon the new administration's interest in the social sectors in general
and the more successful Government project components in particular. There is a clear need for the type of
activities funded by the project; the social indicators are as poor as, if not worse than, those of a decade
ago. As mentioned above, MOE now has a good design and some good experience with pre-school
education for the poorest populations, particularly with non-formal classrooms run by indigenous
communities with the help of NGOs. In addition, MOF now has a relevant social sector database for the
identification of the needs of the poorest that would make feasible better definition and targeting of needed
social assistance. Based on the difficult coordination problems and disappointing experience with
multi-sector project implementation, however, any future Bank support should be provided in a much
simpler insitutional framework. Alternatively, if the Government and the Bank were to choose a
multi-sector approach, a social fund such as FONVIS could provide an efficient, cost-effective vehicle for
channeling such investments. FONVIS has gained substantial experience in recent years, and, like all
social funds, operates under the guidelines set by the line ministries; at the same time, it is exempt from
many of the bureaucratic constraints unavoidably experienced by government line ministries.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in project identification was highly satisfactory. The need for comprehensive social
sector action was identified during the preparation of the SAL, and this was further analyzed and confirmed
at the identification stage.
-8 -



Although the sector requirements were reviewed in great detail, project preparation lacked an adequate
assessment of the necessary technical and financial management of this complicated, multi-sector project.
In view of the urgency of the project activities, in parallel with the implementation of the SAL, it was
decided that detailed management arrangements could be worked out at the start of the project. This turned
out to be a mistake, and project implementation was hampered throughout the years by organizational,
managerial, and financial problems. A public administration/management specialist should have been
involved from the preparation stage to assist the Borrower in designing adequate institutional arrangements
for project execution and financial management.
Appraisal utilized a great deal of detailed sector information, but was deficient with respect to assessment
of institutional arrangements and project management. In addition, the number of students per pre-school
classroom was overestimated, resulting in a significant overestimate of the benefits of the pre-school
component.
7.2 Supervision:
Apart from the project management issue, which was never fully resolved, and which would have benefited
from participation by a public administration specialist throughout project implementation, supervision was
hampered by the frequent turnover in responsibility for both Venezuela and the project in the Bank. As a
result, the Bank lacked the senior-level institutional knowledge and interest necessary for "hard" project
decisions. On the other hand, the assignment of supervision responsibility to the Resident Mission in 1997
led to much more Bank involvement and accelerated project implementation and Loan disbursement.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Despite improvements in both task management and the involvement of senior Regional Management in the
last years of project execution, this was not sufficient to compensate for the lack of attention of earlier
years or the failure to ensure adequate provision for project management and institutional coordination.
Therefore, overall Bank performance was less than fully satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During project preparation, the Borrower did not decide upon the critically important management details,
and showed an unrealistic optimism about the possibility of MOF's coordinating and facilitating a
complex project involving two other major actors (MOE and MOH), each with their own agendas that took
precedence over those of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's implementation performance was less than satisfactory, although this varied among
components and improved in recent years. All components suffered from the poor
organizational/managerial set-up of the project and the ongoing, major contract processing and budget
hurdles.
The Borrower followed agreed Bank procurement procedures, but a lack of knowledge and the internal
-9-



and external clearance process resulted in major delays in contracting and, with the high rate of inflation, in
project costs. This was somewhat improved in 1997 with the delegation of responsibility for project
supervision by the Bank to its resident mission, and to the use of UNDP for the procurement of goods and
services by OTC and PAMI. Procurement data are provided in Annex 2.
Disbursement of loan proceeds was slow, reflecting delays in implementation of the project.
Disbursements accelerated with the contracting of UNDP and the subsequent deposit of substantial
amounts in its account. Disbursement data are provided in Annex 2.
Funding. The Government's practice of including international loan proceeds in its regular budget made
both loan and counterpart funds subject to the same severe budgetary constraints and increased the
likelihood that the loan substituted for regular funding, rather than providing incremental financing.
Government priorities led to sharp increases in the PAMI-executed food component, while the core health
and education services components were reduced. Government restrictions, such as refusal to allow the
implementing agencies direct access to the project's Special Account in the Central Bank and prohibition of
direct payment of local contracts by the Bank, added to the funding problems for these core components.
Accounting and Auditing. The institutional complexity of the project led to difficulties with respect to
timely and accurate consolidation and report of financial accounts. In 1993/94, MOF attempted to address
this problem by assigning overall responsibility for project financial administration and accounting to the
Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment (FONVIS), which was to work in coordination with the OTC and
the other implementing entities. (FONVIS was also given responsibility for execution of financial
management training activities). However, FONVIS' effectiveness as financial administrator was
hampered by the same budgetary and procedural constraints that slowed project implementation overall.
Its accounting was generally accurate, though slow. In 1997, an agreement was signed with UNDP for
provision of assistance in procurement and administration of funds for the purchase of goods and
contracting of services. While effective in providing more direct access to project funds and in handling
procurement procedures, UNDP was also slow in providing reports on financial accounts. The diffusion of
responsibility for financial management and accounting among entities and slowness in accounting by all
parties combined to make consolidation of the project accounts very difficult. Financial audits by private
auditors were carried out, but generally behind schedule. In audit reports since 1995, the auditors
consistently flagged weakness in overall project financial management. (Although this is a problem flagged
by auditors in nearly all projects in Venezuela, it was a particular problem in this project because of its
complexity).
Legal Covenants. The Borrower substantially complied with the technical covenants of the legal
agreement.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unfortunately, the weaknesses in the organizational set-up of the project prevented MOF from playing the
coordinating and facilitating role needed for a successful implementation of the project. In addition,
ministers and senior project staff changed frequently, and with them, commitment to the project's objectives
and knowledge of agreed procedures and practices, were lost. In general, senior staff received standard or
even below-standard Government remuneration. Some of the implementing agencies did overcome some of
these hurdles, in particular FUNDAPREESCOLAR, which showed dynamic leadership in later years.
MOF also became more proactive in the last two years. To assist the OTC in project management, it
established elaborate procedures to ensure adherence to the Bank's rules and regulations, including an
- 10-



agreement with FONVIS to screen the procurement/reimbursement requests from all of the implementing
agencies; this did ensure adequate procedures and documentation, but also caused further delays. On
balance, implementing agency performance is considered unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Despite improved performance in the last years of implementation, Borrower performance overall was
unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The relatively limited success of the project can be ascribed to a variety of factors already mentioned
before. The problems included:
The perceived urgency to complement the SAL quickly with an investment operation intended to
alleviate the social impact of adjustment, which led to haste in project preparation and lack of
specificity in the design of project components and project management (even more serious in a
country where there had been no Bank-assisted sector operations for many years);
A complicated organization, with MOF trying to coordinate the policies and activities of the
major ministries of MOE and MOH through a relatively small OTC;
The lack of experience of, and incentives for, implementing agencies' management and technical
personnel to pursue project objectives. This was mainly due to the frequent change in ministers
and consequent turnover of project management and to the relatively low remuneration of
project staff;
The limited health and education budgets (with Loan funding included in overall government
budget allocations and, thus, restrictions), restricted access to the Loan's Special Account, and
the prohibition by the Government against use direct payments for local contracts (this was
partly alleviated since 1997 by the use of UNDP as a contracting agency);
The high rate of inflation in the country and consequent escalation of project costs;
Lack of specific targeting of project activities, especially during the initial years of the project;
Frequent labor problems in the health sector, affecting the operations of the health centers;
Initial difficulty with the purchase of land for pre-school classrooms; and
Lack of involvement of public administration specialists from the Bank during project design
and follow-up, and the limited attention by the Bank's senior management until late in project
execution.
The above problems suggest several features of project design, institutional context and implementation
arrangements that could improve the probability of a successful project outcome:
A simple project design and organization. In most cases, this implies a single-sector design,
minimizing complex inter-institutional coordination;
Policies, rules and regulations, practices, and definition of institutional roles worked out and
agreed in detail prior to Board approval;
Agreement at the country level, prior to project preparation, on the general terms and
conditions for project implementation, including how counterpart funding would be budgeted
and disbursed, the incremental nature of Bank financing, and the management of Special
- 1 1-



Accounts;
*   Agreement with the Government, as part of project design, on overall priorities and funding
levels for priority programs and services in the relevant sectors;
*   Appointment (and maintenance over time) of experienced, appropriately project management
and staff, with the proper incentive structure;
*   Sufficient and accessible project funding and adequate provision for financial management and
accounting;
*   Maximum involvement of the communities and local governments in all stages of the project
cycle; and
*   Close monitoring by the Bank, with adequate participation by appropriate subject matter
specialists, as needed;
The generally positive experience with social investment funds around the world suggests that a
semi-autonomous, well-managed social fund may offer an appropriate vehicle for channeling funds to
investments in several social sectors. In Venezuela, FONVIS may offer such a vehicle.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Introduction (written following the change in Government)
During execution of the Social Development Project (SDP), the institutions in charge of social issues
suffered a full-blown crisis. There was a complete lack of national, intersectoral, or intergovernmental
perspective, and a dearth of legitimate policies, effective plans, clear priorities, and coherent organization.
While political discourse repeatedly referred to economic and social policy, in practice there was evidence
of more or less coherent economic measures, but, as far as social issues were concerned, a series of erratic,
spot, and even marginal actions. Government authorities were, it is true, totally convinced that economic
growth alone would suffice to eradicate poverty and mitigate inequality.
Economic and social indicators reveal the deterioration in Venezuelan society in the past two
decades:
International reserves fell by approximately US$10,000 million between 1975 and 1997.
Oil exports declined in constant value terms from US$24,000 million in 1975 to US$13,000
million in 1995.
Real Gross Domestic Product grew, albeit erratically, at an average year-to-year rate of 1.9%, at
the mercy of shifts in oil prices: in 1988 GDP grew 5.82%; in 1989 it fell 8.57%; in 1991 it grew
10.96%; and in 1998 it dropped 0.67%.
Inflation was 81% in 1989; 70.8% in 1994; 103% in 1996; and 30% in 1998.
The open unemployment rate is estimated to have fluctuated between 16% and 25%.
* Roughly half the economically active population works in the informal sector. {Under these new
circumstances, in which work in the formal sector ceases to be the principal port of entry into
organized society, the poor became not so much exploited as excluded and increasingly displaced
and removed from the nerve centers of society.}
- 12 -



* The Gini coefficient was 42.4% in 1992 and 46.5% in 1995.
The percentage of the population living below the poverty line increased from 33% in 1975 to
67.2% in 1997.
In 1975 the income gap (minimum financing required to eradicate poverty) was equivalent to 1.9%
of GDP, 6.2% of oil exports, and 7% of fiscal revenue from oil; in 1997 the gap was equivalent to
13% of GDP, 31 % of oil exports, and 48% of fiscal revenue from oil (Ruitort, 1999).
Malnutrition among pregnant women was back at levels registered in the 1950s. Forty-one percent
of pregnant women treated in outpatient centers in the metropolitan Caracas area were anemic and
47.3% suffered from iron deficiency.
The percentage of children under two years of age who were underweight or generally
undernourished rose from 13.8% in 1995 to 14.5% in 1998. The rate for malnutrition in children
aged between 2 and 6 also increased, from 23.8% to 24.6% in the same period.
In 1997, the infant mortality rate was 21.4 per thousand and the maternal mortality rate 59.6 per
thousand.
The year-on-year rate of growth for official enrollment at pre-school level was 8.3% in the
1996-1997 school year. A year later the growth rate had dropped to 2.4%.
Social expenditure has decreased in real terms in recent years. {ECLAC considers social
expenditure high when it exceeds 15% of GDP and low when it is equivalent to less than 9% of GDP.}
Furthermore, no progress has been made either in improving its redistribution potential or in directing it
towards vulnerable sectors. Real social expenditure reached a historic peak in 1992, at 9.7% of GDP, but
fell thereafter, to 7.6% of GDP in 1994. Since then, with the exception of a slight upturn in 1997, when it
rose to 8.5% of GDP, it has leveled off at approximately 8% of GDP. A more detailed look at the shares
of education and health in social expenditure reveals how far outcomes fall below standards set by
UNESCO and the World Health Organization. Thus, in the decade between 1988 and 1998, expenditure
on education and health averaged 3.2% and 1.4% of GDP, respectively, or 14.36% and 5.92%,
respectively, of total public sector expenditure.
The social sectors did not always fare that badly. Indeed, the constitution of the modern
Venezuelan state was a process accompanied by relatively effective implementation of social protection
mechanisms based on applying universal standards, which helped shape political life, created a sense of
citizenship, and enhanced social equity. This social protection model, made possible by oil revenue and
sustained economic growth and geared to formal sector employment, began to break down at the beginning
of the 1980s, as the debt crisis and external sector difficulties set in.
Objective
The project aimed to direct part of the State's social expenditure in such a way as to offset the
effects of macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment policies, although the latter were never
applied systematically and continuously. So priority was attached to focusing on what were considered to
be the most vulnerable groups -- pregnant and nursing mothers and children under six, and to improving the
social sector's managerial and organizational capabilities. The project's four components (primary health
care; pre-school development; information, education, and communications activities; and institutional
development) were conceived from an intersectoral standpoint, without, moreover, being subsequently
reevaluated and/or reformulated.
- 13-



Analysis of the technical and political consistency of the project
At this stage, and in light of recent findings in action research, strategic planning, and social
management in general, one can say that the objective was based on a positivist, reductionist, and
technocratic approach. Positivist: because it was founded upon empirical measurement of the effects of the
social crisis without any reference to etiological aspects (in other words, it was based on data and not on
relations between the players). Reductionist: because it attached excessive importance to meeting
established targets without regard to intersectoral, intergovernmental, and local factors that not only
combined and conspired to thwart execution of the project as such, but also undermined its medium and
long-term sustainability. Technocratic: because it overestimated the intuition and opinions of experts, to
the detriment of the real interests of other key players, and, above all, the beneficiaries. That may partly
have been due to the paradigm governing World Bank actions at that time and perhaps to the personal
convictions of the national team acting as the Bank's counterpart in negotiations and in the final design of
the project. If, instead, a more heuristic, holistic, and participatory approach had prevailed, the project's
objectives and components would have been technically and politically more coherent, and that, in turn,
would have led to swifter implementation and much greater mobilization of regional government and
beneficiary interest in expected outcomes.
Of the heurism, holism, and participation trilogy, the participation factor is the most important,
since it is, in a sense, the instrument which leads, first, to the heuristic dimension by opening up and
ultimately generating knowledge and innovation, and, second, to the holistic dimension, particularly since,
by definition, participation makes it possible to both apprehend the whole and handle the diversity of the
component parts.
A priori, the advantage of participation is that it generates knowledge, applies it in action, and, in
addition, makes it possible for project execution to become a real learning process. It broadens insight into
the context surrounding projects and their impact and facilitates possible changes in structure that may
need to be made to improve implementation, not to mention a total redrafting or outright abandonment of
the project.
The approach underlying the project's design and its approval was clearly shaped by the
Washington Consensus, which preached above all the need to eliminate the fiscal deficit, rein in public
spending, deregulate markets and free up investment, privatize state-owned enterprises, and then look after
the victims of such measures through compensation mechanisms. In this view, any more or less complete
social protection network is perceived as a cost and/or rigidity factor obstructing the normal workings of
the market and of business. That led to over-emphasis on adopting centralist and reductionist policy
formulae, under which inordinate power was granted to the traditional sector ministries and the success of
the project gauged in terms of changes in global indicators, with complete disregard for the context in
which the project unfolded at the regional level: states, municipalities, local communities.
Even acknowledging that the decision to go ahead with the Social Development Project could not
depend exclusively on first disentangling relations between national, state, municipal, and community
bodies, it remains undoubtedly true that if key actors at those levels had been actively involved in designing
and executing the project, it would have generated a very intensive learning and institution-building
process. It would also have meant that the necessary changes could have been made in time.
- 14 -



Achievement of the Objective and Project Outcomes
Poverty mitigation
A glance at recent statistics suffices to show that, generally speaking, the circumstances that gave
rise to the project have deteriorated markedly in the last few years. The project managed to have only a
marginal mitigating impact on the effects of the pervasive (and ongoing) crisis in the social sector. The
results are, to say the least, unsatisfactory.
Project outcomes
Primary Health Care (PHCQ: Infant mortality, maternal mortality, and the mortality rate for
children aged I to 4 continue to have a decisive impact on the overall maternal and child health situation.
In fact, these factors generate so much activity that they accounted for 88% of all preventive health care
interventions in this sector in 1996. The figure is higher than that for 1990, which goes to show that
progress in this area has been limited. Separately, it is worth noting that insufficient attention was paid to
the capabilities of the institutional and individual actors involved in execution of this component.
Pre-School Development (PSD): Low pre-school education coverage continues to be a top priority
concern in the educational sector. Pre-school attendance in the 1996-1997 school year (41.6%) was barely
0.88% higher than in 1992-1993 (40.28%), an indication of how little progress has been made in this area.
Information. Education, and Communication Activities (IEC): An integrated support program for
implementation of the PHC and PSD components was not achieved. Nevertheless, a set of relevant data
were generated with respect to nutrition, health, and education, which will help to enhance the promotional
and training activities of social sector executing agencies.
Institutional Development (ID): It was not possible:
      to establish mechanisms guaranteeing maternal and child health care coverage;
      to calculate real coverage of the maternal-child health care program;
      to ensure monitoring of nutrition levels;
      to introduce PAMI [Maternal-Child Health Care Program Foundation] targeting
mechanisms;
      to sustain an extension of non-conventional pre-school education programs.
These problems proved to be key factors in limiting attainment of the coverage ratios contemplated
in the project.
Principal factors affecting project execution and the achievement of objectives
The one-way and rigid nature of the project
Despite the fact that the project was not producing the results expected of it, both the World Bank
and the Venezuelan Government pressed on with its implementation, sticking dogmatically to the original
design set forth in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
For that reason, there was no room for on-the-spot learning. The project was implemented in linear
fashion, without all the interested parties being involved in making sure its objective and targets were
- 15-



achieved. Those parties (governors' offices, regional directorates of sector ministries, municipalities, and
civil society) were generally spectators witnessing implementation. As a result, the project's components
(PHC, PSD, IEC, and ID) were unable to establish real channels of communication with what was
presumably their immediate and mediate environment. Thus, maternal-child health care, for instance, was
restricted to quantitative targets, with no regard for its potential role as a catalyst in promoting changes,
such as the empowerment of women, enhancement of the quality of life, productive development, etc. Once
again, involving interested parties in the design and execution of the project would have made it possible to
detect and/or specify the relations between each component and the (educational, epidemiological,
community, administrative, and so on) system in which it was embedded. It would also have been possible
to identify the necessary (sectoral, intergovernmental, State-civil society) channels to work through, not just
to ensure more pluralistic and synergetic implementation of the project, but also in order to pass on more
know-how and power to the target groups, instead of reserving them for the exclusive benefit of the
executing agencies.
The institutional context
Three shortcomings in particular affected project execution and the achievement of its objectives,
namely: the lack of intersectoral coordination, the lack of intergovernmental cooperation, and weak
drafting, monitoring, and evaluation of plans and programs (not to mention the nonexistence of any real
focusing mechanisms).
It is true that Venezuela never had, and still does not have, a national social policy system in the
sense of a set of definitions, regulations, institutions, and fundraising mechanisms geared to broad, medium
and long-term social objectives. Not even at the time when the State fostered national integration by
extending citizenship, democratizing education and culture, and funding health, housing, and social security
systems, etc.
More recently, the bodies in charge of drafting social policies have been singularly low-profile.
That explains why, at the time the project was drawn up, Venezuela lacked explicit social policies and,
consequently, relevant and coherent social programs, whereby social policy is understood as an
agreed-upon, structured and forward-looking set of government, private, or community measures in the
political, economic, and cultural spheres, whose objective is to enhance the quality of life of the population
from an endogenous development perspective. {The not only weird but also paradoxical fact of the matter
is that it has been the multilateral organizations that have called upon the government to pay more heed to
social issues, with their influence largely being exerted in the form of selective program designs; never,
however, in the form of a comprehensive social policy.}
When the SDP was drawn up, the dismantling of the State apparatus had been going on for some
time. As it became increasingly insolvent, it was forced to abandon its role as the leading force behind
social development, a development which paved the way for the partial privatization of health and
educational services that has been taking place.
That was the institutional context at the time the SDP was drawn up. Under such circumstances,
the idea was to channel the few available resources toward solving the severest manifestations of poverty.
At the same time, power structures "at the top" began to undergo a decentralization process that favored
political power distribution at the expense of the specifically technical design of the project. As a result, it
proved impossible to define the different spheres of competence of the various government entities. Nor
were formal mechanisms for intergovernmental coordination and cooperation established. That was the
objective reason why the SDP was developed and placed under the sector ministries, because lower or
regional levels lacked both the technical capability and the authority needed to figure as front line
stakeholders in its design and execution.
- 16-



Toward the end of SDP execution, in light of the assessment of results for each component in the
project carried out by project staff and of the evaluation of beneficiaries, it became clear that the crucial
factors that prevented the project from attaining its objective had been institutional and organizational.
The mediocre performance of the health and education ministries, where the SDP's main executing
entities (PAMI and Fundaescolar) were located, is due to:
      a cumbersome, inert, corrupt, and incompetent bureaucracy;
      the interests of professional associations and unions;
      the discrepancy between the information available to senior management and the
information at the disposal of administrative, professional, and technical staff, on the one
hand, and the recipients of the services rendered, on the other;
      the lack of sufficient incentives to rouse the enthusiasm of all those involved;
      the nonexistence of mechanisms for the general public to exercise control over the way
hospitals, outpatient clinics, and educational institutions of any kind are run.
Sustainability of the Project
As regards the SDP's main components, namely PHC and PSD, a priori sustainability is out of the
question, given that in practice they were not the most desirable ways to attend to maternal and child health
care problems or the pre-school education needs of the most vulnerable sectors, respectively. Furthermore,
the expenditure that would be required today just to mitigate the worst aspects in these areas could not be
financed with public sector funds.
Nevertheless, the SDP did yield positive results in the Institutional Development component, which
should be reinforced:
      The project served to create awareness of the need for clear intersectoral and
intergovernmental policies and strategies in the social sector and for broad national
consensus regarding how social services should be delivered;
      It laid the preliminary foundations for an integrated, performance-oriented and
decentralized social policy management system covering research, projections, the
development of statistics, planning, monitoring, and evaluation.
      It defined criteria and preliminary mechanisms for directing the State's social sector
activities toward the alleviation of extreme poverty.
To consolidate these achievements, a vast program geared to strengthening the social sector would be
required. Its principal projects would be:
- 17-



Establishment of a Social Sector Authority. This body would the guide social policy in the required
direction; which means, first and foremost, redefining the sphere of competence of todays Social
Cabinet Office. The idea is to create a permanent body, with powers to formulate policy, allocate
resources, and determine how social programs are to be executed, monitored, and evaluated. The
Social Sector Authority shall determine which areas merit priority attention based on key social
problems that have been properly analyzed and quantified by studying their root causes, not on the
basis of technocratic or bureaucratic intuition. The Social Sector Authority would also be responsible
for publishing the Social Sector Yearbook and drawing up the consolidated social sector budget.
Setting up a System for Monitoring and Evaluating Social Sector Problems, Policies, and
Programs. This system could become the main tool for monitoring key social problems and devising
public sector measures to solve them. A blueprint for such a system is almost ready and only requires
supplementary studies to consolidate its socio-demographic and epidemiological data base and become
operational. The monitoring system would constitute a fundamental instrument for the Social Sector
Authority to carry out its government functions. Such a system makes it possible to pinpoint priority
areas for social development activities and thereby construct a comprehensive agenda of social sector
problems, policies, and programs. It is a computerized information system which throws light on
overall social trends, facilitates analysis of cost-benefit differentials in Latin American countries, and at
the same time exercises operational control over the different programs. Essentially the system
measures:
Basic needs
The situation of vulnerable groups
Inequalities
Context
Setting up a National Beneficiaries System (SISNABE). Conceived as a system offlexible, modern,
transparent, and decentralized mechanisms for channeling resources to vulnerable/poor families or
households, SISNABE is an indispensable vehicle for improving the selection of foci employed in
poverty reduction programs. A draft blueprint for SISNABE has been drawn up, outlining
administrative, financial, informational, and legal aspects of the system's general orientation, along
with basic elements needed for its future implementation. This preliminary design envisages three
types of targeting:
Program-based
Geographical
Case-by-case
Once the design of SISNABE is completed, including data on current beneficiaries of social programs,
the methodology applied to weight different poverty levels, and the software used for gathering,
ordering, updating, and consolidating data at the national, state, and municipal levels, the next step will
be to define institutional and operational aspects, and spheres of competence.
-18 -



Developing a social sector statistics system. One of the core social sector activities that the current
government should engage in is gathering and updating coherent sets of statistics on the social sector to
feed into the decision-making process. A Social Sector Statistics Committee {Comprising
representatives of the following entities: Cordiplan, the Ministry of the Family and Labor, the Ministry
of Health and Social Development, and the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports} comprising
various subcommittees already exists, run by the Statistics and Information Office (Oficina de
Estadistica e Informatica - OCEI). {The subcommittees are on: Social Statistics, Social Programs,
Poverty, the Family Food Basket, Nutrition, Core Statistics, and Employrnent.}
In 1998, through the SDP, the Ministry of the Family made a decisive contribution to the development
and consolidation of the Social Sector Statistics System by conducting the following surveys jointly
with OCEI and the Venezuelan Central Bank:
* 1998 Social Survey
* 1998 Population and Family Survey
* National Family Budgets Survey
Supplementary Survey on Child Care
Thus, a fairly complete set of instruments is already in place, which, when properly analyzed, provides
the bulk of the information needed to measure poverty in all its dimensions: patterns, incidence,
geographical distribution, consumption patterns, inequality, and a wealth of general data on the living
conditions of the poor. The next steps will be to formally establish how often those instruments are to
be applied, and the schedule for setting up social sector statistics systems in all the states and
municipalities, not to mention the process of updating the administrative records kept by the Ministry
of Health and Social Assistance.
Establishment and Consolidation of the Single Social Fund [Fondo Unico Sociall - SSE The SSF
is a source envisaged in the program of funding for large-scale activities designed to benefit the poor.
Currently the SSF restricts its role to improving the basic health, nutrition, educational facilities, and
productive activities of the poorest segment of the population, although, eventually, it could broaden
the scope of its funding to cover basic social infrastructure. The SSF program guidelines take into
account the already existing institutional framework (with which it should preferably coexist) and the
gravity of the problems besetting the poor, as well as the effectiveness and cost of possible alternative
solutions. Those analyses, based, as mentioned earlier, on a study of underlying causes, have made it
possible to define the following programs and projects:
* The Minimum Family Income Program (MFI)
* The Single Nutrition Program
Daily Care Households and Multiple Households
* The National Young People's Job Training Program
* The Extramural School Support Program
- 19 -



The Single Social Fund's Flagship Program: the Minimum Family Income Program (MFI).
Improving public education is the only way to ensure the sustainable participation of our country in a
globalized world. From that perspective, education is being regarded not just as the key to personal
development, but also as a determining factor for economic development, reduction of inequalities, and
the elimination of poverty. Moreover, it has been shown that there is a close correlation between a
country's level of income per capita and the proportion of the population completing sixth grade in
primary school. In other words, a high level of enrollment in basic education contributes to economic
growth.
The inefficiency of the basic education system is the prime cause of declining incomes in the poorest
households, because those who drop out of primary school earn on average 56.8% less than those who
complete that level. In addition, the deterioration associated with insufficient means is well known,
with respect to both skills and performance. In view of that evidence, the program proposes adopting a
flexible and transparent mechanism for making cash payments to women living in extreme poverty as
an incentive for having their children complete their basic education. The scheme has additional
spin-offs, including positive effects on health, nutrition, and fertility. The MFI's sole objective is to
increase the number of children of poor families who complete their basic education, by improving
access to the system and reducing drop-out ratios.
Drawing up a Strategic Plan for the Social Sector
The structure, scope, and essence of social development have not traditionally been considered of
fundamental importance. That situation must now be reversed, by doing everything possible to re-forge the
links between the economic and social spheres, by treating them as part of a duo, as two sides of the same
coin.
That implies drawing up a Strategic Plan for the Social Sector, as the linchpin of a system of target
selection, action, and accountability in social issues. Based on extensive consultation with civil society
regarding sectoral and selective policies, and on a legitimate technical and political process of defining the
State's social objectives, the Plan will establish social priorities in accordance with key problems pinpointed
by the System for Monitoring Social Sector Problems, Policies, Programs, and Plans. The Plan will also
make it possible to implement social policy through intergovernmental cooperation and coordination with
civil society.
Being both action- and performance-oriented, the Plan will usher the various institutional players in the
social sector in the same direction. It will direct activity toward priority aspects agreed upon by the social
sector as a whole, including regional public bodies and NGOs working on social issues. The key to
strategic planning is precisely to ensure that organizations remain in sync with their changing environment.
Hence the suggestion that it is necessary to concentrate only on matters of strategic importance,
disregarding, among other things, any courses of action that are not related to key social problems.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
See Annex 8: Beneficiary Survey Results
10. Additional Information
N/A
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome  Impact Indicators:
The SAR and other available project documentation did not establish impact indicators.
Output Indicators:
HEALTH SERVICE COVERAGE              EXPECTED AT PROJECT COMPLETION  ACTUAL 1995 a/
TARGETS (PER YEAR)                   IN 1995
Pre-Natal Women                      422,000                               623,699
Post-Natal Women                     359,000                               93,035
Infants (up to 24 months old)        641,000                               757,114
Preschool Children (2-6 years old)   916,000                               490,082
Family Planning                      251,300                               680,000 bI
Breastfeeding for 6 months                                                 n/a
Cervical Cancer Screening            375,000                               477,076 (1997)
Immunization Coverage (for children under  90%                             79% (1997)
three)
ACTUAL 1998
PRESCHOOL DEVELOPMENT
New Classrcoms (formal system)       1,506                                 804
Non-formal Centers Opened            184                                   8
Increased Attendance - Formal        85,300                                27,000
Increased Attendance - Non Formal    28,020                                240
Note: The population requiring services from the health centers reportedly increased dramatically because of the
country's economic deterioration; therefore, the percentage of the target population served by the health centers
declined.
a/ Last year for which health statistics were processed at the MOls Statistics Unit
b/ Represents only 12 percent of the population requiring family planning services
Sources: MOH (Health Statistics)
FUNDAESCOLAR (Education Statistics)
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pr6ect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Primary Health Care (including food)*                   185.50          446.10          232
Pre-School Development                                   42.50           28.30           59
Information, Education, Communication                    12.60           17.40           44
Institutional Development                                 3.80            2.60           53
Unallocated (disbursed, but final accounting of UNDP on                   6.60
allocation by project component not yet available)
Total Baseline Cost                                     244.40          501.00
Physical Contingencies                                  12.20
Price Contingencies                                     64.30
Total Project Costs                320.90          501.00
Total Financing Required                320.90          501.00
- Appraisal estimate included US$ 143.1 million equivalent of food (excluding contingencies), to be financed
entirely from Government sources. Actual figure includes food purchase and distribution of US$409.0 million,
as reported by PAMI.
Source: FONVIS (Responsible for Financial Management)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          16.80         0.30          0.00          17.10
(0.00)       (14.90)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (15.10)
2. Goods                      29.60          9.50         6.50         191.60        237.20
(26.60)       (8.60)        (5.50)        (0.00)        (40.70)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         19.10         0.00          19.10
Including Consulting          (0.00)        (0.00)       (19.10)       (0.00)        (19.10)
Services
4. Training                   0.00           0.00         10.30         0.00          10.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (10.30)       (0.00)        (10.30)
5. Operating Costs            0.00           0.00         37.20         0.00          37.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (14.80)       (0.00)        (14.80)
Total                      29.60         26.30         73.40         191.60        320.90
(26.60)       (23.50)       (49.90)       (0.00)       (100.00)
- 22 -



Projct ost byProuree tArrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB                                        N.B.F.       Total Cost
NCB          other       _____
1. Works                        0.00          18.30          0.00           0.00          18.30
(0.00)        (16.40)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (16.40)
2. Goods                       37.10           2.50          0.40         409.00         449.00
(36.60)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (36.60)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00         22.80           0.00          22.80
Including Consulting           (0.00)         (0.00)        (22.80)        (0.00)        (22.80)
Services
4. Training                     0.00           0.00          6.20           0.00           6.20
(0.00)        (0.00)         (5.50)        (0.00)         (5.50)
5. Operating Costs              0.00           0.00          4.70           0.00           4.70
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.70)        (0.00)         (2.70)
Total                       37.10          20.80          34.10         409.00         501.00
(36.60)       (16.40)        (31.00)        (0.00)        (84.00)
Source: FONVIS.
Notes:
I. Goods includes US$409.0 million of food, as reported by PAMI.
2.  Total disbursement of Bank loan proceeds amounted to US$84.6 million, US$0.6 million more than
shown in table. US$0.2 million is due to rounding, and further US$0.4 million disbursed, but category
breakdown awaiting final data from UNDP and Borrower
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
The SAR presented the detailed financing plan by category of expenditure, rather than by component.
Therefore, a comparative table is presented below.
- 23 -



Project Financing by Category of Expenditure
Actual as % of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual                       Estimate
IBRD as                           IBRD as
% of                              % of
Govt   IBRD    Total   Total   Govt   IBRD    Total   Total   Govt   IBRD    Total
(%)                               (%)            (--- % ---
Civil works         2.1    15.0    17.1    87.7        1.9    16.4    18.3    89.6    90        109      107
Equipment
furniture, &
materials         6.6    42.0    48.6    86.4       3.4    36.6    40.0    91.5    52         87       82
Food              191.6      -      191.6     0.0   409.0       -     409.0      0.0   213               213
Consulting
services &
studies           -       7.1      7.1   100.0      -       22.8    22.8   100.0       -     321      321
Training             -      10.3    10.3   100.0       0.7      5.5     6.2    88.7       -      53       60
Operating costs    20.6    13.6    34.2    39.8        2.0      2.7     4.7    57.4    10        20       14
IEC services         -      12.0    12.0   100.0       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Total             220.9   100.0   320.9    31.2   417.0    84.0   501.0    16.8   189            84      156
Total, less food   29.3   100.0   129.3    77.3        8.0    84.0    92.0    91.3    27         84       71
Sources: Food expenditures as reported by PAMI. All other: FONVIS, Responsible for Financial
Management.
Note: Figures are preliminary pending documentation of final expenditures by FONVIS and UNDP
(total disbursements, including advances to UNDP, total US$84.6 million).
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Neither the SAR nor available project documentation reflected quantitative analysis of costs and benefits.
The project did not systematically maintain records sufficient to quantitatively assess costs and benefits at
completion.
-25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Pre
paration                5   Education Specialist, Health
06/89                        Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/89                   5   Education
(Pre-Appraisal)
05/90                        Health
Public Administrator
Supervision
06/91                    6  Procurement Specialist,               S                 S
Auditing Specialist,
Educator, Legal,
Disbursement Specialist,
Civil Works
05/92                    5  Educator, Social Survey,             U                  S
Education Specialist,
Procurement Specialist, Health
Specialist
11/92                    5  Health Specialist, Educator,         U                  S
Social Survey, Education
Specialist
04/93                    5  Educator, Operations Analyst,        U                  S
Public Health & Nutrition,
Education Specialist
08/93                    2  Operations Specialist                U                  U
04/94                    5  Educator, Operations Specialist,     U                 U
Public Health & Nutrition,
Communications Spec.
08/94*                                                            S                 S
02/95                    6  Operations Specialist, Resident       S                 S
Representative, Public Health &
Nutrition, Communications,
Educator
06/95*                                                            S                 S
02/96*                                                            S                 S
06/96*                                                           U                  S
12/96                   2  Public Administrator, Resident        U                  S
Representative
04/97                    3  Resident Representative,             U                  S
Institutional Development
Specialist,
- 26 -



03/98                   4  Public Health & Nutrition,           S                 S
Institutional Development,
Educator, Public Administrator
ICR
12/98                  5   Public Health & Nutrition,          U                 U
Institutional Develepment,
Education Specialist, Public
Administrator
* Updates
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              75.5                    128,004
Appraisal/Negotiation                   18.8                     39,363
Supervision                            254.2                    538,419
ICR                                      3.1                      9,922
Total                                  351.6                    715,708
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
i Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
rzEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
2 Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
L Lending                                            OHS OS *U OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS OS   *U   OHU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   * U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS O S  * U  O HU
EL Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  * U  0 HU
CL Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS Os   *u   O HU
Notes: Both Borrower implementation and Bank supervision improved in the last few years, partly due to
substantial Resident Mission involvement in supervision.
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Venezuela-Social Development Project-SAR, IBRD, October 30, 1990
2. Informe de Avance-Asistencia T&cnica en Planificaci6n y Control, Cynner Consultores, November
1998
3. FONVIS: Experiencia y Perspectiva, Lourdes Alvarez, April 1, 1998
4. Cuarto Informe de Seguimiento de los Programas Sociales del Componente de Proteccion Social de la
5. Agenda Venezuela, Primer Semestre, 1998
6. Programa Fortaleciendo la Familia, Informe Final, Burston-Marteller, June 1998-January 1999
7. Evaluacion del Impacto del Componente de Educaci6n, September 1999
8. Evaluaci6n del Impacto sobre los Beneficiarios de los Componentes de Salud; Informaci6n, Educacion
y Comunicaci6n; y Fortalecimiento Institucional, August 1999
- 30 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Assessment Results
Background
Following a completion mission for the Social Development Project (SDP) late 1998, the closing date of the
loan was extended twice to conclude various priority activities including the Beneficiary Assessment (BA).
The terms of the BA were discussed with GOV officials and members of the project's Technical
Coordination Unit (OTC) in late 1998 and the assessment was carried out by local NGOs between May
and August, 1999.
The BA was planned around the objectives of the Social Development Project, which were to: (a) improve
the living conditions of a large and poor segment of the population, especially pregnant and lactating
women, and children under six years of age, while mitigating the potential adverse impact of the adjustment
program, (b) replace indirect subsidies with targeted social programs, while improving their efficiency and
rationalizing their distribution, and (c) promote institutional development by improving the planning and
management capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH), and Ministry of Education (MOE), as well as the
capacity to target, develop, and monitor social programs of the Ministry of Family (MOF).
The need for consultations with beneficiaries became even more important because the project performance
seemed to fall short of targets, initial baseline data were unclear, and there had been an absence of
evaluations through the life of the project. Also, some subprojects (i.e. primary health care program,
PAMI) were started long ago, while others (i.e. most Information and Education (IEC) and Institutional
Development (ID) activities) were recent activities thus making impact difficult to measure. Finally, there
were difficulties with the identification of direct beneficiaries of the ID component, as the country
experienced substantial staff turnover with the installation of the new government.
This assessment was intended to be a qualitative assessment of beneficiaries' perceptions of the project and
its benefits.
Beneficiary Assessment (BA)
Given the heterogeneous nature of the four components of the SDP, it was agreed that four different BAs
would be carried out by NGOs. Cahas, Turmedo and Associates were responsible for the IEC assessment;
LACSO was contracted for the ID and the Primary Health Care Network components; and the Department
of Education of the University of Venezuela assessed the Fundaescolar component.
The assessments would seek to evaluate the four components: (a) rehabilitation and development of the
primary health care network; including provision of basic health and nutrition services for pregnant and
lactating women and children under six years of age, (b) development and expansion of pre-school
education, focused on lower-income rural and urban areas, (c) information, education, and communications
(IEC) services for health, nutrition, and education promotion, and (d) improvement of the Government's
capacity to design, plan, and implement social programs and to monitor the effect of such programs.
Objectives of each BA
To promote an open forum for dialogue and discussion among policy-makers, stakeholders and
beneficiaries on the social pertinence of the SDP, and its relevance in poverty reduction in
Venezuela.
- 31 -



To identify the actual beneficiaries and stakeholders of the sub-projects, 1991-1999.
To assess beneficiaries' satisfaction with the goods and services received through the project.
To assess beneficiaries' perceptions of effectiveness of the project to respond to their needs and
demands; to assess the appropriateness of mechanisms used to deliver the project; and to draw
lessons learned.
To document, if possible, the perceived impact of the project on improving living conditions in
health, education and knowledge management.
Methodology and Instruments
Participatory urban/rural assessments were used for all the components. Triangulation was used to
cross-reference information. Methods included short surveys, structured and semi-structured interviews
with selected beneficiaries and stakeholders, focus groups and observation visits. The instruments were
formulated by each research firm in consultation with the TCU to conform with the goals of each
assessment. Probing aimed at providing answers to the questions of: (a) social and economic pertinence of
the subproject; (b) effectiveness; (c) stakeholder/ beneficiary satisfaction; and (d) recommendations.
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE NETWORK COMPONENT
The objective of the component was to provide health care and nutrition to pregnant and lactating women
and to children under six years of age suffering from poverty, as a means of replacing indirect subsidies by
targeted programs. This component was managed by the Ministry of Health and the Primary Health Care
Network (PAMI), a foundation established by the Ministry of Health. It had two subcomponents: PAMI
and National Training Program (PNC). PAMI ($409 million) managed two programs since 1991: (a)
distribution of food (milk and lactovisoy) through selected health centers; and (b) provision of medical
equipment ($37 million) in peri-urban health centers since 1992. The executing agencies were PAMI,
Regional Health Centers and Governor Offices, Mayors Offices, and the Red Cross (in Estado de Lara). In
general, the goods and services were delivered by urban and rural ambulatory health units types I, II and
III and by MOH hospitals types I and II. The project became reasonably well known as it responded
efficiently to a break out of chickenpox between 1994 and 1997 with the purchase of $3 .4 million in
vaccines, covering 94 percent of children between ages of nine months and 15 years.
Sampling for the BA
One state per region was selected for sampling of distribution centers. Sampling of beneficiaries was
proportional to population in each state. According to PAMI, in 1999 there were 1190 stores which
distributed goods to 2,454 health units in the five regions of the country (Caracas DF, Miranda/Central/De
Los Llanos, Center/West/Zuliana, de Los Andes, and North East/Inland/Guayana). The states selected in
agreement with TCU were Monagas, Carabobo, DF, Lara and Tachira. Thus six municipalities in
Monagas, eight in Carabobo, two in DF, three in Lara, and 17 in Tachira were included. A stratified
sample of 162 PAMI centers participated in the BA. The stakeholders and beneficiaries participating in
the survey were 752 mothers, 378 local health care team members, 125 PAMI promoters and distribution
center staff, and 71 participants in the training program (PNC).
Triangulation was used for cross-reference. Focus groups were conducted with milk and lactovisoy
recipients. Interviews were carried out with high and intermediate officials of health units and distribution
- 32 -



stores. Survey instruments were applied to all the participants.
Results
Who are the beneficiaries of PAMI?
1.    The socio-demographic and socio-economic surveys were conducted with the purpose of analyzing
the targeting of the PAMI program. The socio-demographic survey shows that 85 percent of recipients
were between 21-40 years old and only 18 percent were single mothers. There was some correlation
between education level and employment. The less educated were typically unemployed. More than half of
the recipients had finished elementary school and one fifth had a high school diploma. The number of
children (from one to seven) per family seemed to be evenly spread irrespective of education attainment.
Half of the mothers had a child between six months and six years of age. Two thirds of mothers had one
child benefiting from PAMI and the other third had at least two benefiting from the program. The PAMI
products collected were usually distributed by mothers to all their children, not only to those qualified by
the program.
2.     The socioeconomic survey aimed at identifying the financial status of the beneficiary mothers in
order to assess social pertinence. It shows that 23 percent of women have a family income below 80,000
Bs., the family income of 34 percent of mothers ranged between 80,000 Bs and a minimum salary; that of
20 percent was equivalent to two minimum salaries, and that of 3 percent was equivalent to more than two
minimum salaries. In other words, 57 percent of beneficiaries declared a family income lower than the
minimum salary. This bracket included all illiterate women (6 percent) and most unemployed. In terms of
the living conditions, 70 percent lived in houses with zinc/metallic roof and 85 percent had cement floors.
Seventy percent of households had electricity and garbage collection. Some 89 percent had piped water
and solid waste disposal system in pocetas or cloacas. In terms of occupancy per household, in 80 percent
of households bedrooms were occupied by one to three persons, which showed there was no overcrowding.
In short, according to LACSO, in the context of Venezuela, PAMI was appropriate in terms of targeting.
About the services provided by the Program
Most PAMI recipients had been in the program at least two years. Some 65 percent of them joined the
program between 1994-98, and 35 percent since 1989. The overall rating of satisfaction among recipients
of milk and lactovisoy in 1998 indicated that 50 percent of women interviewed were moderately satisfied,
27 percent were neither satisfied not dissatisfied, 15 percent were dissatisfied and only 8 percent were very
satisfied. Major reasons for dissatisfaction were: (a) infrequency of product availability and distribution;
(b) insufficient knowledge about the services provided by PAMI -mode of distribution, goals of the
program and characteristics of the products; and (c) lack of mechanisms (promotion, targeting) to include
extremely poor women and children. Although most women did not think the program improved mortality
rates, 56 percent believed it improved their children's daily nutrition.
Quantity and quality of products and of the program in general were also assessed. Most recipients were
happy with the amounts of milk and lactovisoy received in 1998. Some 37 percent received both, 34
percent only milk and 28 percent lactovisoy. Monthly installments of two kilos were received by 70
percent of milk recipients, and 56 percent of them agreed that the quality of the product was good. About
30 percent of the mothers received two kilos of lactovisoy and 46 percent of them thought the quality was
good. When asked if they had received educational information on PAMI from the center, 60 percent
mentioned that they had not, but 32 percent of those receiving the information rated it very good. In terms
of the quality of the program over time, 30 percent of milk recipients thought the quality of the program
- 33 -



had remained constant since 1995, but 28 percent believe it had deteriorated in the past few years. On the
other hand, 48 percent of lactovisoy recipients believed product deterioration had increased lately.
Beneficiaries rated highly those community participation programs promoted by PAMI. Sixty-two percent
of beneficiaries benefited at least once from educational activities promoted by PAMI (training). Most
people were moderately satisfied with the interaction and services provided by PAMI distribution staff in
general.
Rating of human resources in ambulatory health units
Beneficiaries were asked to identify services and service providers (e.g. doctors, nurses, social workers),
and to assess the quality of those services, and of the equipment being used. It was quite difficult for
patients to identify and list the types of services being offered at ambulatory units. However, half of
patients interviewed thought services provided by doctors and nurses had improved in the past two years,
40 percent thought they remained the same and 6 percent believed they had deteriorated. Usefulness and
quality of equipment had also improved according to 40 percent of patients. As far as the work done by
social workers, 18 percent thought services improved, 20 percent said they remained the same and 30
percent did not know. In terms of the physical conditions of the units, 52 percent thought they improved,
42 percent thought they were the same and 4 percent thought they had deteriorated. In general, about 50
percent of beneficiaries believed services had improved over the past few years, and 30 percent thought
services had remained the same overtime. Slightly 10 percent of beneficiaries thought most services had
deteriorated.
Assessment of PAMI by distribution center staff
Perceptions by distribution center staff did not differ greatly from beneficiary perceptions. Local PAMI
distribution centers are stakeholders and indirect beneficiaries. Some 125 middle-age employees, mostly
women, most of whom have high school or technical education, were interviewed to evaluate the program
as a whole. Turnover of staff was small. Only 40 percent of them had been hired since 1997, and the rest
had job security at PAMI since 1990. Around 30 percent of interviewed distributors made household
visits at least weekly. Around 95 percent of them had been trained mainly through workshops, courses,
conferences on maternal & child health, health education, nutrition, and mostly community participation.
Most believed the key problem lay in the logistics of the distribution chain of products. The lack of
systematized and timely delivery schedules created anxiety among beneficiaries and workers. The main
problem was the distribution from PAMI centers to distribution centers. Delivery from distribution to
ambulatory centers was better organized and rated satisfactory. The istribution mechanisms of milk
seemed to have deteriorated further than those of lactovisoy. The mode of final distribution to users was
good, and the coordination and cooperation between distribution centers and ambulatory centers was good
and very good respectively.
Perceptions were gathered around the question 'Has PAMI improved living conditions of Venezuelan
family?' Some 72 percent of distribution center employees felt this goal was only partially met. However,
90 percent of them agreed that PAMI had contributed to reduce child morbi-mortality rates.
Again, community outreach and participation was one of the main achievements identified by the entire
group of indirect beneficiaries. PANG triggered the creation of a health network between distribution
centers and participating CBOs, such as Neighborhood and Parish organizations. These networks were
- 34 -



being used for other community enrichment programs.
Assessment of PAMI by local health center staff
Some 378 local health professionals were interviewed in their ambulatory units. They included medical
doctors (32 percent), nurses (38 percent), nutritionists, social workers and nurse assistants. As with
distribution centers, almost 90 percent were female. Turnover of these staff was equally low. Some 42
percent were hired on or before 1992, and only 12 percent in 1998. This was the only group which knew
about the professional services supplied by PAMI, such as family planning, cancer screening, control of
acute diarrhea infections (ADI), and acute respiratory infections (ARI), infant growth controls and
immunizations, sexually transmitted decease controls, health promotion and education and community
participation activities.
Thirty percent of the staff asserted to have had training in one or more of the above fields.
Only 23 percent of interviewed staff believed PAMI had contributed significantly to the reduction
of morbi-mortality, while 34 percent believe the aim had been met only in part. 45 percent believed
PAMI had improved living standards of mother-child groups of the population.
Most of the medical staff interviewed thought the amount of medical equipment and supplies
provided by PAMI was insufficient.
Although 47 percent of the ambulatory centers were equipped by PAMI, only 16 percent of
medical staff believed the equipment met the needs and requirements of the center.
Equipment was over-sophisticated. The physical improvements carried out by PAMI in 1998
seemed to have improved the services, according to 70 percent of interviewed.
BA of the National Training Plan (PNI) executed by PAMI
A separate survey was applied to 71 trainees (mostly middle-age females) of PNC modules. Some 43
percent were trained in all modules, while 18 percent only in epidemiology and 17 percent in the
mother-infant module. Modules typically lasted between 4 and 15 days. Trainees rated modules very high
in terms of scientific as well as cultural relevance of content and application to their work. Most staff were
equally satisfied with the trainers and physical settings of training sessions. Among the participating
organizations were MOR, Health Regional Office, PAHO, Research and Teachers Departments,
Epidemiology, Mother-Infant Care, Social and Health Promotion Department. The level of satisfaction
with the quality of training was high among regional offices, central GOV offices, and local health
authorities.
Beneficiaries and stakeholders' observations on the PAMI Program
Most beneficiaries and stakeholders interviewed were moderately satisfied with the quality of the
goods and services provided by PAMI. However, they mentioned the need to "redefine" the
strategy of the program, the targeting mechanisms to reach those who need the services most, the
quality of the products delivered, and the logistics of delivery. It is recommended that a "less
cumbersome" bidding system be put in place to allow for a more dynamic program. Once the
strategy is articulated, an information dissemination campaign should be implemented.
- 35 -



* Medical staff at the local, regional and central levels suggested medical equipment supplied to
ambulatory units should be "based on a diagnosis" of equipment needed. It should respond to
demand, not to supply. In this particular situation, equipment was "too sophisticated" to meet
clients needs. On the other hand, the ambulances needed for health centers were not supplied.
* Establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to control and improve coordination at the
central, regional and local levels. Involving the community in the monitoring of indicators of
nutrition, health, and community participation would help improve the image of PAMI. Improving
supervision services by district staff was also recommended.
PAMI staff at ambulatory centers recommended inter-institutional coordination to maximize
services to the poor. They also recommended an increase in the number of services offered at the
health units based on an adequate assessment of community needs.
With regard to the PNC training modules, both trainers and trainees recommended more emphasis
on health promotion. They also recommended to extend training time per module, to improve the
quantity and quality of training materials, and to take into account trainees evaluations of each
module.
All evaluating agencies recommended to maintain and expand this program as the targeted
population is in fact receiving the services intended in the food distribution as well as Primary
Health Care Program.
* Finally, decision-makers should bear in mind that, according to the BA surveys, most women
benefiting from PAMI goods and services also subscribe to other social programs, e.g. 53 percent
to Public Food Stores (PROAL), 52 percent to School Uniforms, 43 percent to Food Grants, 35
percent to Daily Family Care, 22 percent to School Milk Program, 27 percent to School Supplies,
28 percent to School Meals, 13 percent to Transportation subsidy, 21 percent to School Food, 31
percent to Medication Supply, and 3 percent to Training for Employment.
THE INFORMATION AND EDUCATION COMPONENT
This component was managed by the OTC of the Ministry of the Family (MOF). The objective was to
study and publish topics which would improve the implementation of the health and education components
of the project by means of increasing beneficiaries' awareness of primary health, basic education, nutrition
and family strengthening practices. Except for the Joint Editorial Plan of MOF and Social Management
School which initiated in 1991, all IEC efforts were implemented since 1996.
The present BA seeks to assess the impact of six sets of publications produced and disseminated by this
component, such as (1) the IEC Kit; (2) Food Guides; (3) Manuals of Child Development for ages 0 to 6
years old; (4) Family Strengthening Program; (5) Breastfeeding Kit; and (6) MOF Joint Editorial Plan. It
sought to assess behavioral changes triggered by the above publications. Survey instruments and
semi-structured interviews were used for data collection. From a universe of 11,212 publication recipients,
371 primary and 384 secondary beneficiaries were selected with weights proportional to number of issues
published per type. Results were corroborated with an opinion poll of 100 respondents carried out in
Caracas.
The IEC Kits. The TCU was in charge of organizing the production and distribution of publications to
SDP executing agencies. The IEC Kits present the evolutionary cycle of an individual; it includes five
- 36 -



manuals on Mother-Child Health, Mother-Child Nutrition, Adolescence, Sexuality and Teenage Pregnancy,
Psychological Aspects of Infancy, and Community Education. In 1997, 16,000 copies were published and
70 percent of them distributed among the SDP executing agencies, groups and individuals.
Food Guides (pamphlets). Only 22 percent of the 350,000 copies published in 1995 were distributed by
the National Nutrition Institute. The rest was in storage.
Child Development Manuals for children 0-6. Since 1998 the Preschool Department of the Ministry of
Education distributed only 7 percent of the 65,000 copies edited by the TCU to Integrated Preschools and
the Family Program. The rest was in storage.
"Strengthening the Family " Program. With the purpose of improving the quality of life of the Venezuelan
family, the Social Strengthening Fund of the MOF carried out a national sensitivity campaign in 1998. It
was aimed at rescuing and restoration of family values. Some 95 percent of the 50,000 kits produced were
distributed to members of community circles formed by 173 NGOs. The rest was in storage.
Breastfeeding Kit. The National Breastfeeding Commission (CONALAMA) developed this Kit in 1998
aimed at health and nutrition professionals and promoters.
Joint Editorial Plan. Since 1991 the MOF and the Social Management School have developed a series of
publications aimed at the institutional strengthening of MOF. Publications explore MOF achievements,
and discuss ideas and proposals. All 31 issues with 300 copies of each have been distributed.
Results
The quality of publications in general was rated high by users. It should be stressed, however, that
publications would not have had the desired impact without the intervention of health and
education promoters in charge of disseminating, discussing and maintaining the dialog among
health and education network users.
The implementation of the component went beyond the change of habits of community groups, to
the promotion of an integrated concept of health which included biological-psychological-social
aspects of an individual.
With regard to the quality of materials, users reported general satisfaction with vocabulary,
content, relevance of information, quality of paper and illustrations.
The component promoted higher levels of community organization. Promoters used community
resources, multi-disciplinary teams (priests, mayors, teachers, neighborhood committee members,
etc.) to disseminate messages. Community participation in knowledge dissemination was higher in
rural communities.
According to primary beneficiaries, the biggest deficiency of the component was the failure of
GOV to distribute publications. In some cases distribution did not even reach promoters.
Materials remained in storage rooms. They urged GOV agencies to complete distribution.
Another beneficiary of this component was CONALAMA. The 40-hour program designed under
the component was incorporated into the curriculum of the Nutrition and Dietetics School of
- 37 -



Central University of Venezuela.
Recommendations by beneficiaries
A national IEC plan of this nature should not be an isolated effort, but should be part of the plans
of the line ministries of Health, Education and MOF. This plan should include a distribution
strategy, training for usage, and monitoring and evaluation.
* Also, it was recommended that distribution be contracted in the private sector.
THE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT (ID) COMPONENT
This component was managed by the TCU, in cooperation with the Central Office of Statistics and
Information (OCEI) and the Ministry of Coordination and Planning (CORDIPLAN). The goal was the
strengthening of the institutions involved in the planning, implementation and evaluation of social
programs. It included technical assistance and training, elaboration of studies, equipping of facilities of
OCEI, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Family, improvement of information systems, etc. The BA shows
that some of the goals of the ID component were not reached due to inadequate planning and provision of
needed tools and mechanisms. Some of the studies planned were satisfactorily finished, others only
partially finished, and most of them took longer than expected. Recent involvement of the mayors and
NGOs (representatives of the communities) in reviewing the results of crucial government programs added
a new dimension to this component. The studies provided useful data on the social sectors in general and
poverty in particular. SDP also funded the strengthening of the Venezuelan Social Fund (FONVIS).
Identification of beneficiaries was a challenging task for LACSO (NGO carrying out the BA). Direct
beneficiaries of this component (policy makers, GOV agencies, social protection entities) involved in
planning and implementation of social programs could not be easily identified by LACSO; therefore,
agencies which carried out the studies were interviewed instead. Only 40 percent of beneficiaries of
training, equipment and technical assistance were located and interviewed. Mayors and attendees to Local
Board Events (public and private sector officials) were identified and interviewed as beneficiaries of the
Local Board subproject. Methods and instruments of data collection included interviews and focus groups,
questionnaires and opinion polls.
Strengthening and equipping OCEI was one of the main objectives of this component. This was done
through the following five special subprojects: (1) Support to Normative Reorganization of the National
Statistical System (SEN) and the creation of a National Statistics Plan (PEN); (2) Institutional
Development of OCEI; (3) Modernization of the Geographic and Statistics Information System (SIGE); (4)
Physical and technical support to Computational Capacity for the 2000 Census, and (5) National Platform
of Automatic Official Information (PLATINO). Also, the strengthening of the National Statistics Network
(RENE) was in the original plan.
- 38 -



Results
* According to GOV officials interviewed, the support of SDP to OCEI was significant not only in
terms of the strengthening of that institution, but in terms of the potential impact on the national
statistics system and its potential contribution to policy making. The overall assessment indicated
OCEI's strengthening was adequate and pertinent to empower the institution with the tools for
efficient planning, monitoring and evaluation of the statistical processes in the country. However,
many of the processes and activities within each subproject were developed in the past two years
only and were incomplete. Further funding would be needed to achieve the initially established
goals.
The following surveys carried out by OCEI and the MOF: (1) Social Survey (ENSO 98), (2)
Survey of Family Budgets (ENPF), and (3) National Survey of Population and Family
(ENPOFAM) were satisfactorily completed but dissemination was still pending. The social survey
was intended to identify which social programs were effective and whether or not they were
reaching the targeted population. The Family Budget and Family and Population surveys sought to
analyze income and expenditures of the Venezuelan family, as well as demographic growth. The
three surveys were deemed important for the formulation of social policy and the design of social
programs. Potential beneficiaries were to be found in the public and private sectors.
The Strategic Program of Human Resource Training and Development (PEDRHU) was a joint
initiative of MOF and the Social Management Foundation (FEGS) seeking to train public servants
in areas of social management. This inter-institutional effort also ranked high because of its
effectiveness in opening a dialog among institutions. Trainers and trainees assessed this program
as successful in meeting its goals, and recommended expansion of the program to private
institutions dealing with social programs.
- SDP financed two subprojects aimed at institutional strengthening of NGOs. First of all, an
Internet communications network for institutional strengthening of NGOs and CBOs. Beneficiary
organizations were satisfied with this effort and recommended more training on Internet use and
applications to be delivered through the network. The network allowed interaction of the civil
society with the public sector. The second subproject, institutional strengthening of Micro-Finance
NGOs, did not go beyond planning and diagnosis.
SDP also financed the First and Second Stage of Basic Education Teacher Training Program for
the use of School Food Guides developed by the National Institute of Nutrition (INN), MOE,
CENAMEC and Fundaci6n CAVENDES since 1990. The implementation of the training
program was contracted out to two other agencies. The stakeholders who participated in planning,
implementation and evaluation of the subproject were interviewed. They suggested this nutrition
program be continued for its educational value for teachers as well as students. No direct
beneficiaries were interviewed.
One of the roles of MOF was the coordination of Local Social Boards (Gabinetes Sociales). The
Social Boards were an operational arm of the Social Protection Component of the Agenda
Venezuela in the areas of education, health, housing, social security and labor policy. The eleven
events carried out since April 1997 called "Municipality and Social Management" aimed at the
coordination between the central, regional and local GOV agencies to allow for the decentralization
of decision making. High rank representatives of the public and private sectors attended these
events, including the President of Venezuela, Ministers, and representatives of Foundations,
- 39 -



mayors, and Social Development Agencies of Municipalities and Governor Offices. Social Boards
were successful in establishing agreements with mayors to allow municipalities to have access to
resources available in the 14 social programs of the Agenda Venezuela. In most mayors' opinions,
although the studies funded by SDP recommended demand-driven projects be prioritized in the
ministerial agendas, they felt those recommendations had no impact at higher levels of
decision-making in the ministries.
Recommendation
To consolidate and evaluate the studies and monitoring/ evaluation tools (statistics) created by this
component in the different GOV agencies. It is equally important to validate conclusions, results
and recommendations and to bring them to the attention of policy-makers of the new government.
This should prevent unnecessary efforts to repeat the studies, and should allow the GOV and
donors to capitalize on lessons learned.
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION OF PRESCHOOL EDUCATION COMPONENT
The Preschool Education component was implemented by Fundaescolar (1991 to 1999), a foundation
established by the Ministry of Education to replace FundaPreescolar which operated in Venezuela since
1990. The objective of this component was to expand coverage of preschool education to 3-to-6 year old
children in urban and rural lower-income regions. Services were to be supplied through conventional and
non-conventional settings.
Some 812 classrooms out of the planned 1,600 conventional classrooms were built. These accommodated
27,000 out of the 96,000 children projected at appraisal. Eighty-five non-conventional community-based
schools to serve 16,000 children were originally planned; only eight of these were achieved. The BA
sought to assess perceptions on the effectiveness of the program from 1991 to 1999 by means of a
Participatory Appraisal in four target areas: peri-urban, rural, bordering, and indigenous territories. The
component was to include construction, provision of equipment, teacher training and research.
The sample for assessment included 24 preschools located in eight regions of the country (Amazonas,
Anzoategui, Apure, Carabobo, Lara, Merida, Miranda y Zulia) Parents, teachers, school principals and
community members participated in 24 workshops with direct beneficiaries. Also, eight other workshops
with executing agencies of the program included members of the Preschool MED Department, Regional
MED staff, trainer teams, builders, and suppliers of school equipment and teaching materials, and groups
of the civil society associated with the Preschools.
Results
In general, beneficiaries and stakeholders showed satisfaction with the quality of the infrastructure, the
equipment, the school supplies, and the training provided by the project. It was widely recognized that
political and economic instability (inflation and unemployment), added to the heavy institutional
bureaucratic procedures (MED, Fundaescolar, World Bank), slowed down the project. High turnover of
staff at MED, Fundaescolar, administrators and directors required constant program adjustments. Lack of
inner- and inter-institutional coordination and planning among the MED Preschool Department,
Fundaescolar, contractors, and service providers made the operation of the subprojects slow and
cumbersome.
As far as construction of infrastructure was concerned, approximately 50 percent of classrooms were not
- 40 -



built due to increasing costs of building materials, undefined building sites, and unclear goals and
objectives of the program. Equipment and school supplies were delivered despite problems of untimely
articulation between supply and demand of building materials, delivery of furniture and school materials,
and class schedules.
Praise was given by beneficiaries to Fundapreescolar, Preescolar Office at MED and the program
management. But most dissatisfaction was expressed with regard to the lack of recreational grounds,
illumination and ventilation of the buildings and inadequate sanitary facilities.
One of the goals of the subproject was to graduate those unlicensed teachers and directors already in
service without a Preschool Teaching diploma. Some of them had a university degree, but lacked Preschool
specialization. This goal was not met. However, 52,200 people were trained throughout the life of the
project, in different topics and at different times. Training did not seem to be carefully planned. Most
problems with regard to training concerned the inefficient coordination of MED and Fundaescolar for
determining training priorities, formulating training plans and adequately delivering them. The training
quarters of the Central Preschool Education Office were fully equipped, but those of the regional offices
were only partially equipped.
Increase of preschool student enrollment (26 percent in 1991) was one of the goals of this component. This
increase did not take place, although infrastructure and equipment were supplied. One of the reasons was
that much of the infrastructure included the rehabilitation and replacement of buildings. Redistribution of
the old enrollment into new buildings took place, but new enrollment was limited. Although beneficiaries
were happy with very small classes, the facilities were underutilized. Another factor identified for
stagnation of enrollment was the non-existence of school nutrition programs in those schools. Finally, new
enrollment of some schools was not registered at the MED as they include unconventional programs; i.e.
Fundaci6n del Nifio serves 1,077 children in 41 classrooms. Other preschools were not registered at MED.
Some of the main strengths of the subprojects were the community participation component and the
opportunities created for job generation and social capital. Links were established among community
members, local governments, civil groups, teachers, universities and NGOs for discussion of educational
issues in open fora. Those events were highly regarded as community strengthening achievements.
One of the biggest accomplishments cited by beneficiaries was the provision of school services to remote
indigenous areas of the country, such as Amazonas and Anzoategui. These indigenous communities were
characterized by a strong community organization and high social controls which promoted program
sustainability. However, their special needs for teacher training, and culturally appropriate teaching
materials required more attention than that dispensed.
A perceived weakness of MED was the lack of a National Plan for Preschool Education which would
provide a strategy, norms, and operational plans to schools and their communities. Sound supervision,
monitoring and evaluation systems were also assessed as urgent needs.
Recommendations
A general recommendation of all stakeholders was that education projects should be demand-driven. A
diagnostic analysis and needs assessment must be made with MED staff, teachers, NGOs, CBOs and
communities to ensure coordination and commitment of stakeholders and beneficiaries. The following
recommendations were made for a successful continuation of the project:
- 41 -



* To analyze the real supply and demand of preschool infrastructure and teachers of preschool age
children in rural and urban areas. Special attention must be given to under-served and isolated
(indigenous) areas with high demand of education but with special needs, i.e. bilingual and
culturally-appropriate instruction. Use of existing facilities should be optimized by the MOE in
response to community demands, i.e. double-shifts for classes, use of facilities for meetings of
civil society groups.
To provide the Preschool Department of the MED with an institutional strengthening program
which would empower MED staff with knowledge and expertise to assist schools.
To establish a National Preschool Education strategy which supports the decentralization of
administration and decision-making power to schools and communities. School programs must be
able to run smoothly, irrespective of turnover in MED and GOV authorities.
To provide Fundaescolar with an institutional strengthening program to improve efficiency, and
plan strategically; e.g. land tenure titles should be secured before construction plans are made;
maintenance plans for infrastructure and equipment should be an important part of project.
To ensure preschool teachers are trained in the use of materials delivered by MED.
To incorporate training for training mothers (Lara y Merida) and unlicensed indigenous teachers in
indigenous areas. Indigenous teachers in Anzoategui and Amazonas have requested training in
bilingual education.
To establish a project monitoring and evaluation system for Fundaescolar and preschools, to be
implemented systematically by Fundaescolar, by the schools themselves, and by the MED.
To incorporate permanent school feeding programs, especially in areas of extreme poverty such as
the indigenous areas.
General Conclusions of the BA
1. The BA went beyond the expected qualitative assessment of project stakeholders and beneficiaries. It
opened many windows of dialogue and debate among stakeholders, social analysts in line ministries and
the private sector, to evaluate the effectiveness and social relevance of the SDP.
2. The assessment was carried out in eight states of Venezuela between May and August, 1999 by three
agencies (LACSO; Canias, Turmedo and Associates; and the Department of Education, Central
University of Venezuela). A total of 162 PAMI centers, 1,326 people (mothers, local health care staff,
promoters, PNC trainees) were consulted in focus groups and interviews for the PAMI assessment.
Over 800 beneficiaries were surveyed for the IEC component. No direct beneficiaries (i.e.
policy-makers in GOV agencies or private sector) were interviewed for the ID component; instead,
OCEI and the agencies which implemented the studies were interviewed. Parents, teachers, CBOs,
students of 24 preschools and eight civil society groups in eight regions of the country (including
Amazonas and Anzoategui with indigenous population) participated in focus groups and interviews for
the assessment of Fundaescolar.
3. Most beneficiaries and stakeholders interviewed were moderately satisfied with the quality of the goods
and services provided by PAMI. However, they emphasized the need to "redefine" the strategy of the
- 42 -



program, to up-date the targeting according to poverty maps in order to reach those who need the
services most, to assess the quality of the products delivered, and the logistics of delivery. They
recommended that a "less cumbersome" bidding system be put in place to allow for a more dynamic
program. Once the strategy is articulated, an information dissemination campaign should be
implemented.
4. Beneficiaries acknowledged the improvement of medical services due in part to newly distributed
medical equipment among health centers. However, medical staff at the local, regional and central
levels suggested medical equipment supplied to health centers should be "based on a diagnosis" of
equipment needed. In this case, the quipment provided was too sophisticated. An increase in the
number of ambulances in primary health centers is also a priority not met yet.
5. According to GOV officials interviewed, the support of SDP for the institutional strengthening of
OCEI was of significant importance to potentially improve national statistics and policy making
nationwide. It provided OCEI with tools for efficient planning, monitoring and evaluation of the
statistical processes in the country. Half of the studies carried out under this component (Social
Survey -ENSO 98-, Survey of Family Budgets -ENPF-, National Survey of Population and Family
-ENPOFAM- were only completed in the past two years and proper dissemination had not been done at
the time of the BA. It was strongly recommended that "public" dissemination of these documents be
done to the public and private sectors to provide policy makers with the tools for well-informed
decisions.
6. The Strategic Program of Human Resource Training and Development (PEDRHU), institutional
strengthening of NGOs through internet, and other training programs, e.g., the PNC training program
under PAMI, the Basic Education Teacher Training Programs for the use of School Food Guides were
interagency efforts recommended by beneficiaries to be continued. Municipal strengthening through
the "Municipality and Social Management" program (Gabinetes Sociales) made Agenda Venezuela
programs accessible to municipalities and their communities. Consequently, mayors and communities
interviewed suggested this program also be continued for demand-driven projects.
7. Fundaescolar did not meet the goals established at project appraisal. Only 50 percent of the
infrastructure and 26 percent increase of preschool enrollment took place. However, beneficiaries are
quite satisfied with the quality of infrastructure, equipment and school supplies distributed. In most
regions of the country, new school construction allowed for redistribution of enrollment in smaller
classes; unfortunately, much space went under-utilized. It was recommended that under-utilized
schools be made available to double-shift schedules and other civil society activities. Major
accomplishments of Fundaescolar was felt in other regions such as Amazonas and Anzoategui which
are indigenous communities suffering from high illiteracy rates. In those areas, Fundaescolar provided
preschool education to children not previously enrolled. This resulted in frequently high levels of
participation and ownership of the projects.
8. A major problem identified by all stakeholders was the unrealistic and over-enthusiastic goals set for
the projects in general without a layout of mechanisms to achieve them. Equally stressed was the lack
of coordination of GOV agencies to carry out activities to achieve outputs, and lack of monitoring and
evaluation systems to measure progress, performance and impact.
9. In general, there was an overall lack of a communications strategy to consult and inform beneficiaries
of the goals, targets and mechanisms of project implementation. There were few cases of community
networks created through the years, eg. Primary Health Care and Fundaescolar components which
- 43 -



promoted inclusion and ownership of the projects. Creation of those health and education networks
were identified by beneficiaries as important benefits of the project.
10. A monitoring and evaluation system, as well as periodic evaluations would have improved the
possibilities of success of this project. Unfortunately, no evaluations were carried out during the life of
the project.
11. Timely and systematic technical assistance from the World Bank would have been needed for a
successful implementation of the project.
- 44 -



Annex 9. Supplementary Project and Sector Data
BASIC SOCIAL INDICATORS
1.   Population: 23,242,435 inhabitants, of whom 11,699,249 are male and 11,543,186 are female. (Source:
Population Estimates and Projections, 1998, Central Statistics and Information Office, [OCEI]).
2.    Total population living in poverty: 11,401,853 inhabitants, of whom 5,067,095 (44.4 percent) live in
extreme poverty. (Source: Social Information Office, Ministry of Family Affairs, 1998. Method used:
unmet basic needs assessment.)
3.   Life expectancy, 1997: Men, 69.8 years; women, 75.5 years.
4.    Maternal mortality rate, 1997: 59.62.
5.   Overall crude death rate, 1997: 4.66.
6.    Crude birth rate, 1997: 24.50.
7.   Total fertility rate: average of 2.6 children per woman. (Source: ENPOFAM, 1998.).
8.   Infant mortality rate, 1997: 18.74.
9.   Average annual per capita increase in GDP, 1970-1980: 0.5 percent; 1980-1990: -1.9 percent;
1990-1997: 1.7 percent (in 1990 dollars).
10.  Average annual increase in social expenditure for 1988-1998: 1.3 percent (base year: 1984).
11.   Social expenditure as a percentage of GDP: 1988, 7.3 percent; 1998, 8.1 percent (base year: 1984).
12.  Average annual rate of per capita real social expenditure: 1988-1998: -1.0 percent.
13.  Education expenditure, 1988-1998:
* As a percentage of GDP: 3.2 percent
*   Percentage per capita:
*     Annual rate of growth: -1.0 percent
*     As a percentage of social expenditure: 39.6 percent
*     As a percentage of the national budget: 14.36 percent.
14.  Health expenditure, 1988-1998:
*   As a percentage of GDP: 1.4 percent
*   Percentage per capita:
*     Annual rate of growth: -1.6 percent
*     As a percentage of social expenditure: 16.2 percent
*     As a percentage of the national budget: 5.92 percent.
-45 -



Year/indicators
Year   Indicator   Year   Indicator
Population (millions)                                  1988      18.8     1999      23.2
Per capita GDP (US$)                                   1988      3,230    1997     2,681
Average annual rate of growth of per capita GDP         1988     -0.9     1997      2.8
Income of poorest quintile (20 percent) - percentage   1988       3
Population living in extreme poverty (percent)         1988      22.3
Population living in critical poverty (percent)        1988      31.4
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                        1987      30.6     1997      24.5
Crude death rate (per thousand)                        1987       5.4     1997      4.66
Crude population growth rate                           1988       2.7     1997      19.84
Fertility rate                                         1987       3.8     1998      2.6
Maternal mortality rate (per 10,000)                  1980-87     65      1997     59.62
Infant mortality rate (per thousand)                   1987       36      1997      21.4
Life expectancy at birth                               1987       70      1998      72.8
Health expenditure as a proportion of national budget (per.)  1985  9.3   1998      5.9
Health expenditure as a proportion of GDP (percent)    1985      2.6      1998       1.4
Daily calorie consumption                              1986     2,494     1997      1,942
Children with low birth weight (percent)              1982-87     9       1997      13.4
Consumption of calorie requirements (percent)          1986      114
- 46 -



