Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAI                                    7 0    -  e  Report No. 8941-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 30, 1990
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Offiee
This docanent has a restdcted dbstribtIon and ny be used by oecipets ony in the pedoumne  of
their offiefd dueti  Its ontents may no oterwie be dicosed wihout Wodd Bnk amimrh tlo .



CURRENCY EOBUIVALRNTS
(as of June 30, 1990)
Current Unit      -     Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00      -     Bs 47.5
US$1 million      -     Bs 47.5 million
US$21,000      -     Bs 1 million
FISCAL  EA
January 1   -    December 31
ACADEmiC YEAR
October 1    -    July 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND PRONYMS USED
CPAPS       Permanent Primary Health Care Commission
(Comisi6n Permanente de Atenci6n Primaria an Salud)
COPEP       Presidential Committee for Poverty Alleviation
(Comisi6n Presidencial para el Enfrentamiento a la Pobreza)
CORDIPLAN   Ministry of Coordination and Planning
(Ministerio de Planificacifn y Coordinaci6n)
EAH         Expanded Household Survey
(Encuesta Ampliada de Hogares)
FONVIS      Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment
(Fondo Venezolano de Inversi6n Social)
GOV         Government of Venezuela
IEC         Information, Education and Communications
INN         National Institute of Nutrition
(Instituto Nacional de Nutrici6n)
IVSS        Venezuelan Social Security Institute
(Instituto Venezolano de Seguro Social)
LSMS        Living Standards Measurement Survey
MINDUR      Ministry of Urban Development
(Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano)
MINFAM      Ministry of the Family
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOH         Ministry of Health
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OCRI        Central Office of Statistics and Information
(Oficina Central de Estadistica e InformAtica)
OTC         Technical Coordination Office, Ministry of the Family
(Oficina T6cnica de Coordinaci6n)
PAMI        Expanded Maternal-Child Health Care Program
(Programa Ampliado Materno-Infantil)
PMU         Project Management Unit
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SISVAN      Information System for Nutritional Surveillance
(Sistema de Vigilancia Alimentaria y Nutricional)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SOCIAL4 DEVE10PmN2anQE
Table of Contents
Paro No.
BASIC DATA SHEET ........................................ iii
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMARY  ................................. v
I.          INTRODUCTION  .             ............................................  1
II.          TME  SOCIAL  SECTORS  ..........                    .............................  3
Background  .           ..............................................  3
Issues in the Social Sectors .............................. 7
Government Strategy ...................................... 10
Bank Role and Strategy ................................... 12
Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................ 13
III.           THE PROJECT .I.............................................. 14
Objectives ............................................... 14
Policy Framework ......................................... 14
Project Components ....................................... 16
Primary Health Care .................................. 16
Pre-School Development ............................... 19
Information, Education and Communications ............. 21
Institutional Development ............................ 23
Project Implementation and Management ..................... 25
IV.          PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCURZMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..27
Costs .................................................... 27
Financing ................................................ 28
Procurement .............................................. 30
Disbursements ............................................ 32
Auditing and Reporting ................................... 34
V.          BEWEFITS AND RISKS ....................................... 35
Benefits ................................................. 35
Risks .................................................... 35
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which visited
Venezuela in March 1990 comprising C. Valdivieso (Mission Leader), M. Riboud
(Economist), J. Newman (Economist), B. Carlson (PHN specialist) and F. Vio
(Consultant); and an appraisal mission which visited Venezuela in May 1990
comprising C. Valdivieso (Mission Leader), M. Riboud (Economist), B. Carlson
(PHN specialist), A. Kogan and M. Bravo (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table- o  Congents (continued)
PAge No.-
VI.S AG=&g AND RZEL                   Qi2=QN  .................... 36
Agreeements Reached .................................... 36
Recommendation ....................................         37
LIST OP TABLES IN MAN REPORT
Table 4.1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 4.2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 4.3:  Financing Plan
Table 4.4:  Procurement Arrangements
Table 4.5:  Disbursement Forecast
LIST OP ANMEMES
1. Social Development Indicators
Table 1: Comparative Social Indicators in Selected Countries
Table 2: Venezuela: Health Status - Comparative Indices
Table 3: Venezuela: Population Projections
Table 4: Venezuela: Primary Health Care Facilities by Region
2. Public Expenditures in the Social Sectors
3. Poverty Indicators
Table 1: Percentage of Families Living in Poverty Conditions
by Region
Table 2: Regional Poverty Indicators
4. Description of Key Targeted Social Programs Expanded or
Established since 1989
5. Social Sectors Action Program
6.  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1: Project Components by Year
Table 2: Project Components by Year, Totals Including Contingencies
Table 3:  Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Project Component
7. Project Implementation Schedule
8. Key Indicators of Project Implementation
9. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHIARTS
Chart 1: Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health
Chart 2: Organizational Structure of the PAMI Foundation
Chart 3: Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Education and
PREESCOLAR Foundation
Chart 4: Organizational Structure of the Ministry of the Family and the
Technical Coordination Office
DW:    IBRD No. 20575
October 30, 1990



- iiv
Gasic Cats Ibe_t
DAM             TEAR
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1. Population Estimate (million)                                        18.6            1968
2. Area t'000 Square Kilometers)                                         912            1990
3.  WUP per Capita (USS)                                               3,230            1987
4.  6NP per Capita Average Annual Growth Rate (X)                       -0.9         1965-87
5.  Income Share of Poorest 20% CX)                                      3.0            1967
6. Population Living in Extreme Poverty (X)                             22.3            1989
7. Population Living in Critical Poverty CX)                            31.4            1969
B. POPULATION DATA:
1.  Crude Birth Rate (Per 1000)                                         30.6            198?
2.  Crude Death Rate (Per 1000)                                          5.4            198?
3.  Annual Rate of Population Growth (X)                                 2.7            1988
4.  Total Fertility Rate                                                 3.8            1986
5.  Maternal Mortality Rate (Per 10,000)                                  65         1980-87
6.  Infant Nortality Rate (Per 1000)                                      36            1987
T.  Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)                                      70            1987
C.  HEALTH DATA:
1. Population per Physician                                              700            1984
2.  Population per Nurse                                               1,900            1984
3. Public Health Expenditures
As X Total Central Goverruent Budget                             9.3            1985
As X of GDP                            2.6            1965
In per Capita US$                            63             1987
D. NUTRITION DATA:
1. Daily Calorie Supply                                                2,494            1986
2. Babies with Low birth Weights (X)                                       9         1982-87
3.  Calorie Intake as X of Requirements                                  114            1986
4.  Per Capita Protein Intake (grams/day)                                 66            1987
5.  Index of Food Production per Capita                                 92.9     1979-81.100
E.  EDUCATION DATA:
1.  Adult Illiteracy Rate tX)                                            9.5            1989
2.  Female Illiteracy Rate (X)                                          11.2            1969
3. Net Enrollment Rates:
Primary Education                            85             196?
Secondary Education                            38             1967
Higher Education                            22             1987
4. Public Education Expenditures:
As S of Total Central Goverrnent Budget                            21.1            1985
As X  GOP                            5.9            1985
In per Capita USS                            139            1987
SOURCES:  World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1989; World Bank, World Developgent Report, 1969;
World Bank, Human Resources in LAC: Basic Indicators, July 1989; and Nission Estimates.



WAN AND PROJECT SUNNYRY
slorrower:         Republic of Venezuela
en2ficiarffie:       Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Education (MOE),
and Ministry of the Family (MINFAM)
Amount:              US$100.0 million equivalent
Tonms:               Payable in 15 years, including a 5-year gace period, at
the Bank standard variable interest rate.
Project hblectives
and Descriotion:    The objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government of Venezuela (GOV) in developing a social
sector strategy to redirect its social expenditures into
well-targeted and efficient programs, by financing high
priority activities, within the framework of its Social
Sectors Action Program. It aims to: (a) improve living
conditions of a large and poor segment of the population,
especially pregnant and lactating women, and children
under six years of age, while mitigating the potential
adverse impact of the adjustment program; (b) replace
indirect subsidies with targeted social programs, while
improving their efficiency and rationalizing their
distribution; and (c) promote institutional development
by improving the planning and management capacity in the
Ministries of Health and Education, as well as 'ie
capacity to target, develop and monitor social programs
in the Ministry of the Family. The GOV has drawn up a
set of policies and actions to be undertaken (Social
Sectors Action Program), which, together with the project
components to be financed, will effectively implement its
basic objectives and strategy for the social sectors.
The project would support: (a) rehabilitation and
development of the primary health care network, including
provision of basic health and nutrition services for
pregnant and nursing women and children under six years
of age; (b) development and expansion of pre-school
education, focused on the lower-income urban and rural
areas; (c) information, education and communications
services for health, nutrition, and education promotion;
and (d) improvement of the GOV's capacity to design, plan
and implement social programs and to monitor the effect
of such programs. A technical coordinating office
attached to the MINFAM would liaise with implementing
agencies on project planning, budgeting, and



- vi -
implementation. Autonomous agencies attached to the MOE
and MOH would be in charge of day to day administration
of the project; technical supervision would be carried
out by regular ministry staff. Special attention would
be given to strengthening implementation and coordination
capacity in the various institutions involved.
IaMg1t8:             The proposed project would help cushion the negative
effects of adjustment for the moot vulnerable groups,
while at the same time improving the efficiency of
resource use and the capacity to design, implement, and
monitor social programs. It would have direct effects on
the nutritional status of pregnant and lactating women,
infants and pre-school children; and would provide
improved associated services such as priLaary health care
and pre-school education. It would suppport the GOV's
strong commitment to poverty alleviation. By 1995, the
proposed project would: increase health and nutrition
service coverage from about 200,000 to 420,000 pregnant
women, from about 80,000 to 360,000 post-natal women,
from 245,000 to 640,000 infants under two years of age,
and from 370,000 to 916,000 children between two and six
years of age; expand coverage of formal and informal
preschool education by about 116,000 children from poor
and disadvantaged families; improve administrative
registers for health and education; establish a
management information system for the social sectors; and
conduct periodic household surveys to monitor the impact
of social programs. The project would benefit women,
especially poor women, in Venezuela. Towards project
completion, about 400,000 pregnant and 360,000 lactating
women (about 50X of pregnant and lactating women) would
have access to primary health care and nutrition
services. This includes not only pre-natal and post-
natal care, but also food distribution, nutritional
counseling, health education, medical services for
women's reproductive care, early cervical and breast
cancer detection, and family planning. In addition, the
expansion of the community day-care centers and pre-
school system in the poor and marginal areas would not
only give girls from poor families better opportunities
for improved school achievement, after an adequate head
start, but would also allow women to pursue additional
opportunities for productive employment.
Rl8ks:               The main risk derives from the lack of experience of the
government in preparing and executing social sector projects
with external financing, especially from the Bank. The
implementing ministries do not have project staff familiar
with international procurement of goods, works, or
consultants, or, more generally, with Bank guidelines.
Since this would be the first Bank investment project in
Venezuela after a long hiatus, domestic implementation



- vii -
capacity needs to be strengthened. The project would
provide training and technical assistance for the
implementing agencies. A country assessment of local
procurement practices has been completed, and a procurement
seminar would be conducted for project staff. Frequent and
intense supervision would be undertaken. A project-launch
workshop to cover implementational aspects such as Bank
procedures, procurement, and disbursement mechanisms, would
take place soon after loan effectiveness.
Estimated Costs: A/                                Local      Foreign     total
- - - - US$ million - - - -
Primary health care                                125.0         60.5     185.5
Pre-school development                              31.6         10.9      42.5
Information, education, communications               4.4          8.2      12.6
Institutionai development                            2.2          1.6        3.8
Total Base Costs                             163.2         81.2     244.4
Physical contingencies                               8.0          4.2       12.2
Price contingencies                                 50.0         14.3       64.3
Total project costs                                221.2         99.7      320.9
L/  Excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible.
~inaning Plan:
Local       Foreig       Total
-  - - - - US$ million - - - -
Government of Venezuela                            220.9          -          220.9
Proposed IBRD loan                                   0.3         99.7       100.0
Total                                              221.2         99.7        320.9
Estimated IBRD Disbursemen:
Bank fiscal Year
19291    192    1993      1994     1995      1996    1297
---------------------- US$ million --------------------
Annual                   6.1     12.3    18.2      20.5     20.4     18.1     4.4
Cumulative               6.1     18.4    36.6      57.1     77.5     95.6   100.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Du:               IBRD No. 20575



SOCIAL DEVELCPMNT I'ROJIggT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         Fueled by exploitation of its abundant petroleum resources,
Venezuela's society and economy underwent rapid transformation during the post-
war ieriod. Population increased from 4.2 million in 1945 to 18.7 million in
1988, due to high natural population increase and substantial immigration. Urban
population rose from 35 percent to 87 percent of the total, reflecting a
fundamental change in the social composition. Income per capita tripled, from
about US$1,000 to over US$3,200. However, Venezuela's non-petroleum-based
sectors developed behind high protective tariffs and restrictions on competition,
which left them ill-equipped to compete externally or to ntilize resources
efficiently. Venezuela has remained dependent on petroleum, which, until the
1986 fall in prices, provided 95 percent of its export earnings, and its economy
is still highly vulnerable to swings in the petroleum markets.
1.2         Venezuela, however, has been unable to adequately address the
problems of poverty, and has yet to develoi effective policies and services in
the social sectors. Social indicators in Venezuela are relatively poor for a
country at its level of per capita income (US$3,230 per capita in 1988), with
rates of infant mortality (36 per thousand), child death rate (five per
thousand), and deaths due to parasites (8.2 percent) all high when compared to
other middle-income countries; while life expectancy (70 years), access to health
services (73 percent of the population), and net secondary-school enrollment (38
percent), are comparatively low, with respect to other middle-income countries
(Annex 1).
1.3         Venezuela has a highly skewed income distribution and significant
poverty. The incidence and severity of poverty increased significantly in the
recent past, due to three major factors: first, government programs have been
poorly managed and have not been targeted to those most in need. Second,
Venezuela's rapid urbanization, and especially the growth of metropolitan Caracas
(now with an estimated population of over four million, which represents
approximately 21 percent of the country's population), has severely strained the
government's capacity to provide services, leading to the development of large
slum communities with only limited basic services. And third, although the rate
of population growth has declined (from 3.4 percent: a year in the 1970s to about
2.7 percent at present), it is still high for a country with GNP per capita in
excess of US$3,000. Recent estimates indicate that about 22.3 percent of the
population live at or below a commonly accepted line of extreme poverty (para.
2.2). Reports also indicate a deterioration in the nutritional status of the
population, mostly in poorer areas, and affecting especially the most vulnerable
groups: infants, pregnant and nursing mothers, and children under six years of
age. Despite high expenditures, social programs have typically attempted to



cover the entire population, mainly through general food subsidies largely
benefiting those grouaps with enough purchasing power to acquire the bulk of the
subsidized products. In 1988, these subsidies represented about Bs 15 billion
(1.6 percent of GDP), and almost 90 percent of total public spending on
nutrition, but approximately 60 percent of subsidized goods were consumed by
middle and high-income families.
1.4         In the medium to long term, Venezuela's development prospects are
good. Venezuela has only begun to exploit the potential offered by its rich
natural resources (not only petroleum, but also hydroelectric potential, natural
gas, iron ore, bauxite, gold and land resources). Divorsified growth is possible
in many sectors, with excellent prospects for exports given Venezuela's location
and its strong comparative advantage in terms of energy-internive activities.
The Government of Venezuela (GOV) has set out to redefine the role of the state
through a radical, but long overdue, economic reform and restructuring program.
The essential aim is to reduce the elaborate regulatory framework and complex and
costly subsidies which pervade the economy and, simultaneously, to encourage
private sector activity and investment through trade reforms, financial sector
reforms, the establishment of a favorable investment climate, and the
establishment of integrated and well-targeted social programs.
1.5         The GOV has reconfirmed its commitment to the central objectives of
its adjustment programs, despite the recent sharp inciaase in the international
oil price, which will have a positive impact on the fiscal and external accounts
of Venezuela. The GOV considers the increase temporary and is setting up a fund
to save a substantial part of the windfall and to smooth out government
expenditures over time.
1.6         The Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and Trade Policy Loan,
approved by the Board in June 1989, directly support the GOV's economic reform
program described above. The-s were the fi-st two Bank loans for Venezuela since
1974, and represent the start of a new assistance program. Three 'Loans were
approved in FY90: a Financial Sector Loan, a Public Enterprise Reform Loan and a
Technical Assistance for Preinvestment Loan. The reform measures will, of
necessity, imply large shifts of real income among the various groups of society.
This is necessary if the economy is to be put on a path of sustainable growth,
but there plainly will be significant transitional social costs. The
contractionary policies followed by the GOV during the stabilization period will
bring dislocations in various economic activities and increased unemployment.
The impact is likely to be most severe on the poorest groups. For this reason,
the government's efforts to redefine and redirect indirect food subsidies to
benefit lower-income groups, and to expand targeted social programs which benefit
the most vulnerable groups of the society, are essential elements of the
structural adjustment program. The Bank supported the GOV's initial poverty
alleviation steps under the SAL, in which successful implementation of the 1989
social program, and an appropriate social program and associated funding for 1990
were conditions for release of the second tranche. Indirect subsidies were
specifically converted into targeted social programs, such as community day-care
centers and programs operating through health clinics in the poorest areas of the
country. The proposed project would build upon these achievements, to help
shield the poorer segments of Venezuelan society from excessive adverse effects
of the reform effort and to overcome past deficiencies in targeting, coverage,
and administration of selected social services.



. 3 -
II. THE SOCIAL SECTORS
A. Background
2.1         Currently, the GOV faces a major challenge:  that of undertaking
important economic and social adjustments while protecting the most vulnerable
social groups. Over the last decades, significant progress has been achieved in
improving the living conditions of the population, especially in the areas of
ed,ication, health and nutrition. School enrollments increased rapidly: some
8S oercent of children aged seven to 12 are enrolled in primary education and
2,. oercent of the 19-24 year old population attend universities. Nev secondary
scho.Nl enrollment ratios, however, are only 38 percent. Male and female
enrollment rates are not significantly different. The illiteracy rate, which was
37 percent 25 years ago, dropped to 9.5 percent in 1989, and still remains higher
for women (11 percent) than for men over 15 years of age (eight percent). The
infant mortality rate fell froe 6- per thousand in 1965 to 36 per thousand in
1988.  Life expectancy, which was around 63 years i-. ')65, now reaches 70 years.
However, these indicators lag behind those of other Latin American countries with
lower income levels (para. 1.2 and Annex 1).
2.2         The incidence and severity of poverty increased significantly in
Venezuela during the 1980s. Official documents clearly indicate a worsening of
many social indicators.  They report an increase in the proportion of families
living in extreme povertX (with incomes below the level required to purchase a
basket of food items to satisfy minimum food requirements) from 10.3 percent in
1982 to 22.3 percent in 1989, and an increase in the proportion of families
living in critical poverty (with incomes above the cost of minimum food
requirements but less than twice that amount -- est3mated at about Bs 500 per
month in 1987) from 22.0 to 31.4 percent between 1982 and 1989. In the education
sector, repetition rates incrc sed fourfold and the attendance rate fell from 94
to 91 percent between 1983 and 1986; the proport!jn of a given cohort reaching
the sixth grade also fell from 64 to 58 percent between 1978 and 1985. In the
health sector, there is evidence that the proportion of malnourished children
rose from 14.0 to 15.3 percent between 1982 and 1989, and that the proportion of
the population with caloric deficiency rose from seven to 23 percent over the
same period. The infant mortality rate has stagnated, while the rate associated
with certain diseases linked to poverty (malnutrition, gastrointestinal diseases)
has increased. Although there is little information about malnourished pregnant
women, the prevalence of anemia in mothers is over 20 percent, and the percent of
low birth weight is about nine percent. The number of communities with grave
sanitary deficiencies also increased rapidly In recent years. The GOV is aware
that public social spending is concentrated on inefficient programs (such as
higher education and curative medicine); is overly centralized, with little
community imvolvement; and that there is a lack of effective planning,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
2.3         The institutional organization of the social sectors is complex.  A
number of institutions may commonly share responsibilities in the implementation
of a given social program. Most of these institutions are public, although the
participation of the private sector in health and education is far from
negligible.



4 -
2.4         Edugtion.  The education sector constitutes by far the largest share
of public social spending in Venezuela (an average of about five percent of GDP
from 1973 to 1985). Most of this funding (80 percent) comes from the Central
Government, with the remainder covered by local governments, municipalities, and
administrative entities. While real spending on education nearly doubled between
1973 and 1985, per capita spending actually fell about 4.5 percent over the
period.
2.5         Public education in Venezuela is free at all levels, and the main
provider of educational services in Venezuela is the Ministry of Education (MOE).
The MOE not only plays a role as direct provider of elementary, secon'.ary,
special and adult education, but is also responsible for planning and budgeting
for the sector, and for overseeing both public and private educational
institutions. The MOE directly administers 58 percent of total public
expenditures in education (Annex 2); while higher-education institutions
administer 28 percent and autonomous institutions around ten percent. The
remainder is investment expenditure undertaken directly by the Ministry of Urban
Development (MINDUR).
2.6         The allocation of public funds among the different levels of
education is skewed in favor of higher education, which receives about 35 percent
of the MOE budget, while primary education gets 25 percent, and secondary and
adult education receive about seven percent. The rest, about one third of the
MOE budget, goes to support, planning and administration activities.
2.7         In 1988, some six million students attended schrAl or university in
Venezuela, about half of them being in the first six grade- of primary education.
Enrollment at the pre-school level is low (33 percent of the corresponding age
group) and universal access to the first grade of primary education has not yet
been achieved.
2.8         The GOV intends to achieve a rapid increase in the enrollment rate at
the pre-school level, given that an expansion of pre-school educational programs
targeted to the poorest children can help comiensate for academic deprivations in
the home environment. The expansion will cover both conventional and non-
conventional pre-school m3des. Conventional pre-school education implies regular
classroom attendance by children to recei-i formal pedagogical classes Siven by a
professional teacher. Non-conventional pre-school education doesn't necessarily
imply regular classroom attendance by children. A teacher and community
promoters share teaching duties, providing not only instruction, but also areas
such as health and nutrition, recreation, and child development. Experience in
Venezuela has been mostly with the conventional mode, but the GOV expects that
non-conventional modes will become increasingly important in the medium term.
2.9         In designing the expansion of pre-school coverage, the GOV will limit
public funding exclus'-vely to schools aimed at low-income families in the poorest
urban and rural areas (defined in accordance with the country's Poverty Map);
while expansion of coverage for students from middle and higher-income households
will be undertaken exclusively by the private sector. Community participation
will be encouraged for school construction and repairs, and NGOs will expand
their participation, especially in non-conventional pre-school modes.
2.10        The private sector has significant involvement at all levels of
education, covering 16 percent of pre-school enrollments, 12 percent of primary
school enrollments, 22 percent of secondary school enrollments and 19 percent of



- 5 -
higher-educatlon enrollments. It employs about 18 percent of teachers and runs
15 percent of educational institutions. Its relative participation has been
increasing over recent years at the level of pre-school and primary education
and, more significantly, at the level of higher education. Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), especially the Bernard van Leer Foundation, are actively
involved in pre-school education.
2.11        Health.  Health services in Venezuela are likewise provided by both
public and private institutions. The major public institutions in the health
sector are: the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Venezuelan Social Security
Institute (IVSS). Most public health services are under the direct
responsibility of the central government. The MOH is financed from the national
budget and serves, in principle, the entire population. The IVSS is financed
with contributions from workers, enterprises and the State, and its beneficiaries
are salaried employees and their families. Private health services have
experienced rapid growth. Over the last twenty years, the number of private
hospitals has doubled; by 1986, almost one fourth of all hospital beds were
located in private institutions. In 1986, there were 229 public hospitals (with
36,500 beds) and 305 private hospitals (with 10,900 beds).
2.12        The organization and delivery of public health services is organized
in a myriad of operationally independent institutions. The two most important
institutions in terms of population and geographical coverage, the MOH and the
IVSS (para. 2.11) administer about 73 percent of the public health budget
(Annex 2), with the MOH administering about 52 percent, and the IVSS about
21 percent. The rest (23 percent) is administered by various autonomous
institutions ' and by MINDUR (four percent).
2.13        In 1987, a law creating the National Health System was enacted.  That
law gives the MOH power to coordinate the delivery activities of the different
institutions involved. However, at this time, the National Health System has
been implemented, as a pilot test of the system, only in one of the states of the
country.
2.14        Regarding infrastructure, MINDUR is responsible for building new
hospitals and general health infrastructure. However, there is no formal
coordination between MOH and MINDUR, so infrastructure construction does not
necessarily follow MOH's plans for health services delivery. The Foundation for
the Maintenance of Public Health Infrastructure (FIMA) is in charge of providing
equipment, maintenance, and repairs to the existing hospital infrastructure.
1      There is a network of autonomous institutions dedicated to the
delivery of health and health-releted services. These include: (a) the
National Institute for Geriatrics and Gerontology (INAGER), an institution to
provide social protection, health services, and medical attention to the
elderly; (b) the National Institute of Hygiene (INH), which provides general
laboratory services to the system; (c) the National Institute of Nutrition
(INN), described in paras. 2.19 and 2.21; (d) the Central Office for the
National Health System (OCPSS), an administrative office in charge of studies
needed to implement the National Health System; (e) the Foundation for the
Maintenance of Public Health Infrastructure (FIMA), to provide equipment,
maintenance and repairs to the existing hospital infrastructure; and (f) the
Caracas University Hospital Institute (IAHUC), a hospital with important
research activities, located within the Central University of Venezuela.



2.15        Public health administration is highly centralized.  The MOH and IVSS
both operate with planning, budgeting, appointments and programming decided in
Caracas. As a consequence, management at the departmental and district levels is
weak and services provided at that level tend to be inefficient. At the same
time, in urban areas, duplication of services is common. Management problems ax
compounded by the lack of adequate management-information systems.
2.16        Preventive health is the responsibility of the MOH, which handles a
network of about 3,500 urban and rural health facilities, spread throughout the
country (Annex 1, Table 4), of which about 955 are located in poor urban and
rural areas. The facilities include 68 regional and district hospitals;
480 urban health centers, and 2,954 rural health centers. Health centers are run
by physicians and nurses, except in the case of Type I rural health centers,
which only have auxiliary nurses.
2.17        Primary health care services in Venezuela are coordinated by the
MOH's General Directorate-Health Sector (Direcci6n General Sectorial de Salud),
comprising five departments: maternal-child health, oncology, medical care,
epidemiology and health promotion. Representatives from each of these
departments participate in the Permanent Primary Health Care Commission (CPAPS),
which meets weekly to coordinate primary health care activities.
2.18        The Maternal-Child Health Program encompasses the following: (a)
infant and child health, which includes monitoring of growth and development,
immunizations, diarrheal control, control of acute respiratory infections,
nutritional supplements, students' health, and breast-feeding; and (b) maternal
health and family planning, which provides obstetrical and gynecological care
(pregnancy care, delivery and neo-natal care, using risk criteria), with special
emphasis on pre-natal care, detection of gynecological and breast cancer,
prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, and contraceptive information and
services.
2.19        For pregnant women and infants, attention at health centers is
combined with the distribution of nutritional supplements, the composition and
delivery of which are the responsibility of the National Institute of Nutrition
(INN). Infrastructure and staffing are generally adequate. However. operational
support has been poor, and coverage has been relatively low. .n 1988, about
25 percent of pregnant women received prenatal care in public health centers;
five percent received post-natal care; the program covered 16 percent of infants
under two years of age and ten percent of children from two to six years o2 age.
2.20        Child Care.  The Fundaci6n del Nitfo, a private foundation, has
responsibility for several programs directed towards children under six years of
age, from low-income families. The main program, Community Child-Care Centers
(Hogares de Cuidado Diario), combines supplementary feeding with community-based
day care for young children with working mothers, living in poor neighborhoods.
The program was initiated in 1974, and at present there are about 3,000 homes
(covering some 15,000 children). A rapid expansion of coverage is planned for
the next few years.
2.21        Nutrition.  The National Institute of Nutrition (INN) is in charge of
measuring the extent of malnutrition in the country, defining norms for
requirements and necessary supplements, and buying and distributing these food
supplements. It collaborates with the MOE for school feeding programs, with the
MOH for the nutritional component of maternal and child health-care programs, and



- 7 -
with the Funwaci6n del Nito for nutritional advice and training to women in
charge of community child-care homes. The GOV is in the process of redefining
the role of the INN, away from food purchasing and distribution, in favor of a
more normative role. The INN will divest service delivery, and remain in charge
of policy and norm setting, quality control, coordination and testing.
2.22        Poverty Alleviation.  A Presidential Committee for Poverty
Alleviation (Comisi6n Presidencial para el Enfrentamiento a la Pobreza -- COPEP)
was recently created to address the problem of poverty alleviation. It is formed
by members of the ministries and institutes involved in the social sectors, as
well as in national planning (Ministry of Agriculture, MOE, MOH, Ministry of the
Family (MINFAM), CORDIPLAN, and the INN) with a leading role attributed to the
MTNFAM. The MINFAM has been entrusted with coordinating the planning, design,
development and monitoring of social prograns among implementing agencies such as
the NOE and the MOH. COPEP's role is to analyze the poverty s'cuation in the
country and to design an action plan directed towards the poorest social groups
and areas; and focusing, within these, on the most vulnerable household members.
The Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment (FONVIS), which is an autonomous
institution attached to the MINFAM, is responsible for obtaining and
administering funds for social-sector projects, including health, education,
nutrition, housing, and employment from international financial institutions.
2.23        Several institutions are responsible for the gathering of relevant
information on social sectors and the evaluation of social problems: the MOH for
vital statistics, the INN for an information system for nutritional surveillance
(SISVAN), the Central Office of Statistics and Information (OCEI) for household
surxveys, and other institutes, such as FUNDACREDESA, for research. By far, the
most important is OCEI, which carries out periodic surveys based on large samples
of the population. Up to now, it has mostly focused its attention on employment
but has the potential, through the design of appropriate questionnaires, to
gather useful information for the evaluation of social issues and policies.
B. Issues in the Social Sectors
2.24        The basic issues in the social sectors include:
(a)   increased incidence and severity of poverty;
(b)   stagnation of social indicators in spite of substantial public
spending;
(c)   low coverage of several basic social programs; and
(d)   financing issues.
2.25        Increased Incidence and Severity of Poverty.  Although the
Venezuelan economy modernized rapidly after the Second World War, driven by the
high revenues generated by the petroleum sector, a significant proportion of the
population continues to live in poverty. The worsening of economic performance
over the last decade aggravated average living conditions, and the number of
extremely poor families increased by at least 50 percent. By 1989, about half



the number of families in the country had less than twice the income needed to
acquire the minimum food basket; and 15 percent of all households were not even
able to meet their food needs. In general, these families have a very low level
of education and suffer from nutritional deficiencies (mainly caloric) and
unsatisfactory housing and sanitary conditions. They live throughout the
national territory, both in urban and rural areas. The problem is more acute in
the West-Central and Andean regions, in the North-East, and the South
(Territories) as well as in the slums surrounding Caracas (Annex 3).
2.26        Stagnation of Social Indicators in SRite of Substantial Public
Spending.  Venezuela has devoted a large share of resources to the social sectors
compared to other middle-income economies (in the eighties, an average of about
40 percent of central government budget and between 11 and 14 percent of GDP).
Social per-capita expenditures in education, health and nutrition have been
higher than in other countries (such as Chile or Costa Rica) during the past
decade. In spite of this significant financial effort, less has been achieved
than in Latin American countries with much lower per-capita incomes. For
example, gains in terms of school enrollment rates have been larger in Chile and
Mexico; while progress in lowering the infant mortality and fertility rates and
increasing life expectancy have been more impressive in Chile and Costa Rica
(Annex 1). The design of new social programs and policies should consider
efficiency gains as a priority objective.2
2.27        Low Coverage of Several Basic Social Programs.  Basic social programs
such as pre-school and primary education, preventive medicine, nutrition,
attention to young children under six, and pregnant and lactating women, have
suffered from insufficient resources and/or ineffective implementation by the
ministries or agencies concerned. The lack of evaluation, insufficient data
gathering and analysis, and little coordination among the different institutions
involved have also prevented a better awareness of the problems and the search
for improvement.
2.28        The pre-school enrollment rate is only 33 percent overall, and it is
much lower for children from poor families.  Over 75 percent of children from
poor families do not have access to this type of education. In primary
education, the enrollment rate is around 85 percent, but both the quality of
education (repetition rates of about 23 percent in the first grade) and the rate
of attendance (high drop-out rates of around seven percent) are low. These
problems mostly affect children from poor households. There is also limited
capacity to respond to increasing demand.
2.29        The coverage of Maternal and Child Health Care programs by the MOH is
relatively low (para. 2.19). The total fertility rate of 3.8 is higher than in
countries with comparable levels of per-capita income. Vaccination coverage is,
except in the case of polio, less than half the average observed for the whole
Latin American region. Only about 25 percent of all pregnant women receive
health care in public health centers. The number of consultations in preventive
medicine is also low, since demand is biased towards curative medicine ana this
2      Due to the paucity and unreliability of the information available,
there is a substantial margin of error in the social indicators themselves;
and these tend to vary according to source. Some indicators are not even
known, such as the contraceptive prevalence rate, as no survey has been
carried out since the 1977 World Fertility Survey.



- 9 -
bias has increased over recent years. As a consequence, several health
indicators such as infant and neo-natal mortality rates, and morbidity rates due
to malaria, have worsened.
2.30        Nutritional deficiencies are a result not only of the level and
distribution of income, and relative prices, but are also a consequence of the
inefficiency and mistargeting of government policies. The main policy instrument
used in the past was general food subsidies. These often leaked to middle and
upper-income families, representing about 20 percent of the population, who
consumed at least 60 percent of the subsidized goods. The subsidies were also,
to a large extent, applied to nutritionally inappropriate products such as
coffee. As a consequence, less than 18 percent of the total expenses contributed
to their stated purpose. The GOV has begun to take important steps to replace
these subsidies by better targeted programs; it has introduced or expanded
directly targeted programs such as the Beca Alimentaria, Hogares de Cuidado
Diario, and nutritional interventions through the primary health-care network
(Annex 4).
2.31        Financing Issues.  The total amount of public social spending in
Venezuela is substantial compared to other middle-income economies. In 1985,
health and education expenditures were 8.6 percent of GDP and about 30 percent of
total government budget (Annex 2). The share of education is the largest: about
21 percent of total government budget, and about six percent of GDP. As a
fraction of CDP, these expenditures are similar to those in Chile or Costa Rica
and much higher than educational expenditures in Mexico, Brazil or Korea.
Expenditures in health represent about 2.6 percent of GDP, which is similar to
what is spent in Chile or Brazil. Even though there were periodic cutbacks in
public expenditure since the onset of economic crisis in the late 1970s, the
share of public spending in the social sectors in Venezuela increased moderately.
2.32        One possible explanation for the continued increase in public
spending in education and health during the period of economic downturn is that
the payroll component accounts for a very large share (between 50 and 75 percent)
of total expenditures in these two sectors. Available evidence suggests that the
increase in the share of the wages and salaries component occurred at the expense
of complementary inputs such as textbooks, fuel, vehicles, medical equipment and
supplies, which have been systematically under-funded in recent years.
2.33        Despite substantial effort, misallocation of social spending
constrains further development of the social sectors. In the education sector,
35 percent of total spending goes to higher education, which represents 7.5
percent of total enrollment; while pre-school and primary education receive 41
percent of total resources, and cover 77 percent of total enrollment. Efficiency
gains could be obtained by redistributing resources towards pre-sch-'.,l and
primary education. The health sector is strongly biased towards the least cost-
effective ways of reducing mortality: spending on curative medicine represents 85
percent of total spending in health and the recent cuts in spending mostly
affected programs in preventive medicine. The amount of resources devoted to
direct food transfer programs is very limited (less than Bs 2 billion in 1988).
Since the lower levels of education as well as preventive and primary health care
yield higher social returns, these are the most obvious public goods components
within overall education and health services. These are also the sub-sectors
where substantial improvement would be directly translated into better social
indicators. It will be therefore necessary to increase the allocation of
resources to the neglected areas and reverse past trends. As a first step in



- 10 -
that direction, the GOV has reallocated the funds saved through the removal of
different food and input subsidies towards targeted social programs, increasing
the shares of primary health care and pre-school and primary education In their
respective ministerial budgets (Annex 5).
2.34        Further development of the social sectors is also limited by
financial constraints. In the past, the expansion of the social sectors
benefitted from the large oil revenues: in the 1970s, social spending in
Venezuela increased at a very fast rate (by 80 percent in real terms between 1973
and 1977). When economic conditions worsened, a clear effort was made to lessen
the impact of the crisis on the social sectors: total real spending remained
practically constant. Per capita real spending, however, decreased by 15 percent
between 1977 and 1985. Financial constraints are becoming more stringent, now
that major macroeconomic imbalances need to be corrected.
C. Government Strategv
2.35        In early 1989, the GOV undertook a far-reaching economic reform
program. It includes a fundamental reform of the exchange and trade systems, a
liberalization of price controls, a de-regulation of the financial system, and
significant improvements in fiscal operations. These measures are necessary if
the economy is to be put on a path of sustainable growth, but there will plainly
be transitional costs which will have important social consequences. For this
reason, the GOV's efforts to eliminate general food subsidies, redirect them to
benefit lower-income groups and enlarge ard expand targeted social programs which
benefit the most vulnerable groups of society are essential elements of the
structural adjustment program.
2.36        The GOV's social-sectors strategy is expressed in the Poverty-
Alleviation Plan prepared by the COPEP in 1989. Its aim is to reverse past
poverty trends through strengthening the supply of social services (health,
nutrition, education and housing); improving the targeting of actions towards the
most vulnerable groups and areas; and increasing the role of the private sector
through community involvement. The MINFAM has the leading role in coordinating,
developing, and monitoring these efforts. The plan focuses on: the real income
of poor families; living conditions in poor urban neighborhoods; and nutrition
and maternal-child health care. In May 1989, under the structural adjustment
program supported by the Bank, the GOV eliminated all indirect food subsidies,
which accounted for almost two percent of GDP in 1988. The GOV dropped these
subsidies completely, and utilized the resources instead for direct transfer
programs, focused mostly on nutrition, for specific targeted groups, to prevent
further deterioration in the real income of poor families.
2.37        To improve living conditions in poor urban neighborhoods, the GOV
recognizes the need to increase the coverage of social services. Expenditures
for repairs and/or new construction of schools and health centers will be
targeted towards the poorest areas. Credit will be provided to improve housing
conditions in some 400,000 dwellings (approximately one third of those located in
marginal urban areas). The construction of 200 new community centers (in
addition to the existing 200) is also planned. These centers will be used for
several purposes, such as health and educational services, child day-care
services, and commmnity meetings.



11. -
2.38        To carry out its objectives in the area of nutrition and matenal-
child health care, the GOV has prepared detailed programs to:
(a)   increase the coverage and improve the targeting of maternal-child
health care programs;
(b)   increase the coverage of community child day-care programs;
(c)   increase pre-school enrollments and introduce nutrition programs at
that level of education; and
(d)   improve the efficiency of school-feeding programs at tht level of
primary education.
2.39        For the Maternal-Child Health-Care Progrm, the GOV intends to
increase coverage to about 1.3 million children under six years of age and to
nearly 600,000 pregnant and nursing women, providing additional consultations and
food supplements to the poorest third of thi3 populatior.. Initially, all
pregnant and nursing women and children seeking preventive health care at
selected health centers will be entitled to receive food and nutrition education.
As demand for preventive health services stabilizes, food distribution will be
limited to those persons which fulfill economic, biological or nutritional risk
criteria. The program intends to increase significantly the number of annual
consultations and the distribution of food (mainly milk, pre-cooked flour and
soy-based nutritional supplements). No significant capital investment will be
necessary as the existing physical infrastructure appears satisfactory.
Increasing the amount of food transfer as well as solving the problems of
irregular food distribution are necessary conditions for success. The GOV will
rely heavily on the private sector and community organization for food
distribution.
2.40        The GOV recognizes the need to expand the community-based  child dav-
care _roeram which, besides providing day care for children from working women in
poor areas, releases mothers for income-generating activities and has a
nutritional component. It also has the advantage of promoting community
involvement and of being highly complementary with the maternal-child health
program described above. Although initiated in 1974, the program has very low
coverage: some 70,000 children are served while the number of children aged less
than seven and belonging to poor households amounts to nearly 1.3 million, of
which approximately 600,000 live under very poor conditions. The GOV has set an
ambitious target: to increase the number of community day care centers from the
existing 3,000 to 42,000 by 1993, so as to reach around half a million children
from poor families. The objective is to provide better care to poor children
with working mothers and to reduce the nutritional deficiencies existing in the
population under seven years of age. To reach this objective, an increasing
number of women will have to be selected and trained as caretakers in each
community; then, each of them will receive a small monthly payment per child from
the GOV (about Bs. 1,200 per month), supplemented by monthly user fees paid by
parents (Bs. 300 per month per child), to buy food and prepare meals according to
norms set up by the INN. Supervision will be undertaken by the MINFAM and the
Fundaci6n del Niuio.
2.41        To increase the attention provided to pre-school children, the GOV
also plans to increase pre-school enrollments and to introduce school-feeding
programs at that level of education. This should have a positive impact on the



. 12 -
quality of primary education and contribute to improved nutritional status. The
objective is to increase enrollment to reach approximately half of the children
four to six years of age. Reaching this objective will require significant
investment in infrastructure. Public funds will be assigned exclusively to
increasing enrollments for pre-school children in the poorest areas, while
increased coverage of middle and upper income families will depend on the private
sector. The GOV is also examining possibilities to make use of existing
community centers, to facilitate a fast expansion of coverage. NGOs such as the
Bernard van Leer Foundation, the "Centros del Nitio y la Familia" of the
Metropolitan University, and the Fundaci6n Ror Trujillo, as well as CESAP (Centro
al Servicio de la Acci6n PoRular) are actively participating in these activities,
and will be encouraged to maintain and expand their participation.
2.42        The GOV is conducting an evaluation of the existing school-feedina
Drogram. which is currently functioning at the level of primary education (first
six grades), in order to decide whether school-feeding programs should be
continued or phased out. If continued, then adequate targeting criteria would
need to be designed.
2.43        To satisfy urgent nutritional needs and to compensate for the effects
of recent economic policy changes on the prices of various food products, the GOV
has set up a new program of nutritional grants (Beca Alimentaria), which benefits
children in the first six grades of primary education, in poor urban and rural
areas. The program consists in a monthly transfer of Bs 500 per month to the
mother of each qualifying child. The selection of schools is made on the basis
of poverty maps which identify low-income areas. Approximately 1.7 million
children are now benefitting from these transfers which started in November 1989.
The GOV has extended the nutritional grants to cover the 1990-91 school year,
while an evaluation of the program., which was supported under the SAL, is
undertaken. After the evaluation is completed, a decision will be taken whether
this program would be phased out in favor of direct food transfers, as was
originally Intended.
D. Bank_ Rle and StrateRv
2.44        In 1989, the Bank's lending program to Venezuela was resumed, after a
15 year hiatus, and agreements were reached between the Bank and the GOV on
macro-economic management, financial-sector reforms, and social programs. Given
that the stabilization and adjustment programs could potentially have an adverse
impact on the real living standards of the poorest segments of the population,
the GOV has prepared a Social Sectors Action Program (Annex 5) which constitutes
the basic policy framework which is being supported by the proposed project.
2.45        The Bank intends to assist the GOV to cushion the poor from the
effects of adjustment, and to improve the efficiency and equity of social
programs. Past and current sector work has made clear how serious social issues
are in Venezuela, given that the incidence and severity of poverty increased
significantly over recent years, and that the relatively modest performance in
terms of social welfare does not stem from lack of overall social spending but
rather from inefficiency and mistargeting. Several crucial areas have been
neglected: preventive health care, pre-school and primary education, and
nutritional needs of the lower income groups; while a large proportion of public



- 13 -
social spending has ultimately benefitted middle and high-income groups.
Cons'.derable room for improvement exists without excessive financial strain, but
this implies reversing past trends, improving implementation capacity, and
strictly monitoring the impact of social programs.
2.46        Venezuela has no recent experience with externally financed projects
in the social sectors. The SAL and Trade Policy Loan, approved in June 1989, are
the first Bank loans to Venezuela since 1974 and represent the start of a new
multi-sectoral lending program, to support structural adjustment through economic
and sector work as well as lending. ThM Technical Assistance for Preinvestment
Loan, designed to strengthen the GOV's capacity to select, prepare and implement
sound investment projects and to build up a pipeline of projects (including
health and education) suitable for financing by the Bank during the next five
years was approved in FY90, together with a Financial Sector Loan and a Public
Enterprise Reform Loan. A Public Sector Investment Review, which covers capital
and recurrent expenditures in the social sectors, has recently been undertaken,
and a Public Administration Study and a Poverty Study will be completed in FY91.
The results of these studies will assist in the identification of issues,
policies and investment needs in the social sectors, and strengthen Bank-GOV
dialogue on issues such as civil service salaries.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.47        Bank strategy aims to support the GOV's efforts to shift the economy
from one based on the consumption of oil rents to one based on growth in
productive activities, focusing on four main areas: (a) reform of basic economic
policies; (b) redtuction of the external debt overhang; (c) improvement of the
efficiency and strengthening of the institutional capacity of the public sector;
and (d) development of the physical and social infrastructure. In support of the
adjustment process, the Bank's strategy for the social sectors in Venezuela aims
initially to assist the GOV in its poverty alleviation efforts by expanding
coverage of targeted social programs, while improving institutional capacity and
the efficiency and equity of such programs. In the longer term, this strategy
will encompass essential decentralization of responsibilities for program
implementation, and establishment of managerial information and monitoring
systems for decision-makers; and will continue to focus on improved allocation of
resources within sectoral expenditure programs. The FY89 UNDP Report on Public
Policy Options for Venezuela identified major issues that are being addressed by
the proposed project. Further recommendations for sectoral reforms will emerge
from ongoing sector work on poverty, public sector investment, And the health
sector, and planned work on the education sector. The results of this work will
be reflected in future lending operations in health and education. The Bank,
under the SAL, has provided technical ass4stance for the design of the new social
programs. The proposed project will support the first stage of implementation of
selected social programs of high priority.
2.48        Despite the recent oil-price increases, the proposed operation
continues to be of high priority, since (a) it would assist the GOV in sustaining
appropriate targeting of social expenditures to poor and vulnerable groups at a
time when such targeting could be put at risk; (b) the price increases are
expected to be temporary; and (c) the GOV is setting up a fund to save a maj40r
part of the windfall and to smooth out GOV expenditures over time (para. 1.5).



- 14 -
III. TiE FRDJECT
A. ObQectives
3.1           The objective of the proposed project is to assist the GOV in
developing a social sector strategy to redirect its social expenditures into
well-targeted and efficient programs, within the framework of the Social Sectors
Action Program (para. 3.3 and Annex 5), by financing high priority activities.
It aims to:
(a) improve basic health, nutrition, and education services for a
large and poor segment of the population, especially pregnant and
lactating women and children under six years of age, while
mitigating the potential adverse impact of the adjustment program;
(b) replace indirect subsidies with targeted social programs, while
improving their efficiency and rationalizing their distribution;
and,
(c) promote institutional development by improving the planning and
management capacity in the MOE and MOH, as well as the capacity to
target, develop and monitor social programs in the MINFAM.
B. Policy Framework
3.2           In support of its social sectors strategy, the GOV has established
the Presidential Commission for Poverty Alleviation (COPEP), to plan, execute and
monitor social services for the poor. The MINFAM, which serves as the
Secretariat for COPEP, is being reorganized into the Ministry of Social
Development, with staff in adequate numbers and with appropriate qualifications
to fulfill its responsibility for planning, designing and coordinating public
social programs in Venezuela. Social programs, however, would continue to be
executed by the implementing agencies such as the M4inistries of Health and
Education and the Fundaci6n del Niuo. The social sectors strategy aims to
improve the efficiency in the use of scarce resources, by concentrating public
resources in direct assistance programs targeted to the most vulnerable groups,
introducing user fees where appropriate, and improving the efficiency of
government institutions and their actions and interventions in the social
sectors.
Social Sectors Action Projram
3.3             The GOV and the Bank have agraed on a set of policies and actions
(listed in the GOV's Social Sectors Action Program reproduced in Annex 5) to be
undertaken by the GOV which, together with the components financed by the
proposed project, would effectively implement the strategy described above
(para. 3.2). The GOV has sent a letter to the Bank confirming the Social Sectors
Action Program which was agreed at negotiations (para. 6.3). The Social Sectors



- 15 -
Action Program includes, among other items, the programs and financial and
management policies to be undertaken by the GOV during the project implementation
period, as described below.
3.4           Social ProgXams.  The GOV has extended its commitment to
agreements reached under the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan on rour social
programs:
(a) Nutritional Grant (Beca Alimentaria). The grant consists of a
direct transfer of Bs 500 per month to the mothers of needy school
children, up to the sixth grade of primary school. Participating
schools were identified through the national poverty map as
serving marginal (urban or rural) areas. The program was
initiated in November 1989, and the MOE is at present providing
grants to about 1.7 million children. An evaluation of the
program is underway, but preliminary findings indicate that the
program has been well targeted to the poorest areas of the country
and has contributed to increased school attendance. The GOV's
evaluation, which includes the targeting and effectiveness of the
program, the amounts of the grants, and a comparison of its
effectiveness to that of other education interventions, would be
completed by August 31, 1991. The program, which is entirely
financed with GOV funds, would continue to be implemented for at
least an additional year (to cover the 1990/91 school year);
(b)  Maternal-Child Health Care (Salud Materno-Infantil).  The program
aims at expanded coverage and improved health care services for
the most vulnerable groups, particularly women and children.
Services would be improved by following the primary health care
strategy, which is managed by the Directorate General-Health
Sector (KOH), with the support of the CPAPS (para 2.17).  The
nutritional component of the program was initiated in
December 1989, with UNICEF assistance, covering ten health centers
in the state of Trujillo. The PAMI Foundation (para. 3.15-3.16),
an autonomous unit attached to the KOH, established in March 1990,
would contract for food procurement and distribution. The GOV
plans to gradually expand coverage throughout the national
territory, starting with 15 states by March 31, 1991; and reaching
the 23 states by Decemtber 31, 1991;
(c) School Feeding Pxogram (Programa de Alimentacifn Escolar). The
GOV is preparing a proposal for a school feeding program for needy
primary school students, which would carefully evaluate the
viability of consolidating existing programs and the cost-
effectiveness and feasibility of supporting a school feeding
strategy. The proposal would be completed and sent to the Bank by
June 30, 1991, and, if viable, an agreed program would begin to be
implemented during the 1991-92 school year; and
(d)  Community Day-Care Centers (Hogares de Cuidado Diario - HCD).
This program combines the goals of day-care for poor children,
supplemental feeding, and community education and development. It
also gives poor women additional opportunities for income-
generating activities, by guaranteeing adequate low-cost day care
for their children during working hours. Community mothers, in



- 16 -
their own homes, provide day care for siX to eight young children.
The GOV provides a loan to equip the homes for day care, donates
toys and other necessary materials, and provides a monthly stipend
to the day-care provider. This is supplemen'ed by fees paid by
parents of the children who are being cared for in the center.
Direct implementation of the program is beirg transferred to the
Fundacion del Niffo and other NGOs; and 2,000 centers were opened
during the last quarter of 1989. The GOV would continue to
provide adequate budget and priority to the program, and would
open centers according to an agreed timetable. The target for
1990 is 7,700 new centers; and for 1991, 10,800 new centers. All
these centers would be entirely financed with GOV funds. An
evaluation of the HCD program would be completed by August 31,
1991 and the GOV would begin to implement agreed actions by
October 31, 1991.
3.5           Financial and Management Policies.  These provisions include:
(a) Strengthening primary health care by DroRosing an increase in the
relative budgetary share of the first two levels of health care
dellver, measured in accordance with a methodology agreed with
the Bank. The MOH would propose to the appropriate budgetary
authorities that this share out of the MOH budget be increased
from 33 percent in 1990 to 36 percent in 1991 and 40 percent in
1992;
(b) Reorganizing the MINFAM into the Ministry of Social Development,
so as to establish adequate implementation arrangements for social
programs; and
(c) Conducting studies to enhance planning and management capacity at
the MOH, MOE and MINFAM, to be completed by March 31, 1992. Agreed
actions would begin to be implemented by August 31, 1992.
3.6           Assurances were received at negotiations that review of the
achievements in implementation of the Social Sectors Action Program (Annex 5),
and of budget proposals for social programs would be conducted before December 1
each year, starting in 1991 (para. 6.2). The timing and phasing of the social
sector policies and actions may be modified if agreed by the government and the
Bank during the annual reviews. If a situation arises which makes it improbable
that the Social Sectors Action Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out, the Bank will be entitled to suspend disbursements on the proposed
project, either partially or totally (para. 6.2).
C. Project Components
Primarv Health Care (US$242.6 million, including contingencies)
3.7           The proposed project would support the strengthening of the
Drimair health care network, increasing primary health care coverage and
nutritional interventions for the most vulnerable groups. This requires both



- 17 -
improving the delivery of basic health care and incorporating the distribution of
food to the pregnant and lactating women and children under six years of age
attending health centers from poor rural and marginal urban areas selected to
participate in the program. Distribution of powdered whole milk, vitamins,
minerals, and other supplements through the health centers would therefore be an
integral part of the routine provision oi medical check-ups and immunizations for
women and children receiving medical attention in those selected health centers.
A food-stamp program was considered, instead of direct food distribution, but
found not to be viable at this time. Targeting of primary health-care and
nutrition activities would be accoriing to the concept of risk. The main risks
to be considereL include: nutritional risk (underweight pregnant women, low birth
weight infants, and undernourished children up to six years of age); obstetrical
risk; and reproductive risk.
3.8           The proposed project would support preventive and curative
interventions for women's reproductive health, the health of infants and young
children, and nutrition and health education. The main activities for women
include: pre-natal and post-natal care; detection and early care of cervical and
uterine cancer, breast cancer and sexually transmitted diseases; and family
planning services. For infants and children, services include: preventive infant
care; immunizations; and treatment of acute diarrheic illness and acute
respiratory infections. Nutritional assistance would be given to pregnant and
lactating women; to children up to six years of age (especially to undernourished
children). Education and training activities, especially promotion of breast-
feeding, would also be undertaken. Information, education and communications
(IEC) activities would be carried out at three levels: health service personnel,
local communities, and the general public. The Directorate General-Health Sector
(MOH) is responsible for implementing the primary health care strategy, with the
support of the CPAPS. The CPAPS would have a crucial support role in the
technical design and coordination of these activities.
3.9           The norms for delivering primary health-care, particularly with
respect to pre- and post-natal care and the application of risk indicators, would
be improved. Pregnant women would receive four pre-natal medical checkups.
Women with pregnancies classified as high-risk (about 30X of pregnant women)
would receive seven medical checkups, and be referred, as necessary, to health
facilities at the tertiary level. Post-natal women would receive one medical
checkup, and emphasis would be given to encouraging the practice of
breastfeeding, and providing information and services regarding family planning,
as required. Children under two years of age would receive four medical checkups
per year (six if classified as high-risk). Children between two and six years of
age would receive two medical checkups per year (four if classified as high-
risk). For all groups, nurses would be responsible for periodic checkups in-
between or following medical appointments.
3.10          The nutritional component would have an impact on the nutritional
status of pregnant and lactating women, and children under six years of age. In
order to assure appropriate attention is given to this issue, an KOH nutritionist
will participate in the CPAPS (para. 2.17). As the program is gradually
expanded, the regional or district nutritionist would help train the health teams
of all selected health centers. Afterwards, this nutritionist would be
responsible for nutritional supervision of those health centers under the
program. Health-center staff would be trained in measuring weight and height of
program beneficiaries with special emphasis on the identification and care of



- 18 -
under-nourished children. The INN will have a normative role at the national
level, and will be responsible for nutritional surveillance.
3.11          Information on the nutritional status of each child under the
program will be kept and monitored at the health centers. The information would
then be aggregated at the health center, district, and state level; to obtain
detailed information on the nutritional status of the country. This would allow
(a) prioritizing resource allocation towards those states or districts with
greatest nutritional needs; and (b) measuring the impact of the program on
participants from a nutritional status baseline.
3.12          The program would provide a nutritional supplement free of charge
to the target population through selected health centers. This would attract the
most vulnerable groups to health posts for medical care and eventually improve
their nutritional status. Children up to six years of age with malnutrition
would receive three kg. of powdered whole milk per month, while children without
nutrition problems are provided two kg. of powdered whole milk per month.
Pregnant and lactating women would receive two kg. of powdered whole milk per
month, while those identified as at risk would receive three kg. of powdered
whole milk per month. Vitamin supplements and iron would also be provided to
pregnant and lactating women.  Although food distribution is centered on
vulnerable individuals, rather than families, the amount of food to be
distributed per beneficiary is similar to successful programs in other countries
such as Chile, which have been successful in reducing infant and child
malnutrition, as well as the proportion of low birth-weight infants. Although
Venezuelan women already place a high value on breastfeeding, efforts would be
made to minimize the potential for a decline in breastfeeding vhen lactating
mothers receive milk supplements by emphasizing breastfeeding in the information,
education, and communications campaigns through mass media and community
education and participation. The project would finance a small pilot study to
replace milk distribution with alternative food packages of at least equal value
for women with infants under six months of age.
3.13          The program would be expanded nationwide during the first two
project years, during which health centers, rather than individuals, would be
selected to be included in the program, based on socioeconomic criteria. All
pregnant and lactating women and children under six years of age receiving health
care in those centers would be entitled to food supplements.  "    L dAstribution,
however, would be of a transitional nature: as the economy improas. it would
progressively be limited to those individuals with biological and nutritional
risk, receiving care in the targeted health centers. Special attention would be
given to the need to minimize potential disruptions by establishing clear
entitlement criteria and procedures for the transitional phase. By 1995, the
proposed project would support increasing basic health and nutrition service
coverage in public health centers from 200,000 to 420,000 pregnant women for pre-
natal care (from 25X to 501 of pregnant women) from 80,000 to 360,000 women for
post-natal care (from 5X to 50X of post-partum women); from 245,000 to 640,000
infants under two years of age for preventive health care (from 161 to 501 of
infants under two years of age), and from 370,000 to 916,000 children between two
and six years of age for preventive health care (from 101 to 301 of the age
group).
3.14          The proposed project would finance medical equipment for maternal
and child hiealth to replace obsolete a:d non-functioning equipment at about 955



- 19 .
primary health care centers in poor rural and urban areas (to cover the poorest
communities, defined according to the country's Poverty Map); vehicles for
program supervision; computing equipment; and office, printing and laboratory
equipment for the health care network. Whe. necessary, food storage areas
within the health centers would be reconditioned, rehabilitated, or constructed.
The proposed project would strengthen the health teams through trainin- and
technical assisrance. It would also support the development of an information
system that would facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
3.15          Food distri.bution would be managed by the PAMI (Programa Ampliado
Materno-Infantil) Foundation, an autonomous entity attached to the MOH, created
specifically to administer the distribution of foodstuffs to health centers in
each region, through contracts with private firms. The PAMI Foundation reports
directly to the Vice-Minister of Health (Chart 1), and is managed by a Board of
Directors comprised of representatives of the MOH, MOE, MINFAN, INN, CORDIPLAN
and OCEI. Management of the primary health care strategy would remain the
responsibility of the Directorate General-Health Sector (MOH), with the support
of the CPAPS.
3.16          PAMI has alreadv designted, planned and initiated a basic health
care and nutrition program, in Bocon6, in the state of Trujillo, in December
1989. Implementation has been very successful, and target group demand for
nutritional services and health care at the ten health centers involved increased
fourfold. Two months after program initiation, about 5,000 patients per month
were being cared for at the ten health centers involved. This experience is
being used for streamlining program design and distribution channels as coverage
is progressively extended.
Pre-School Development (US$57.6 million, including contingencies)
3.17          The highest priorities in investing in basic education are (a) to
provide access to school to all school-age children; and (b) to increase the
learning achievement of children, so that those who enroll actually complete the
primary cycle. Research and practices have shown that investment, both public
and private, in pre-schools targeted at the disadvantaged is an effective way of
increasing students' learning capacity, given that children's capacity for
learning is conditioned by their health and nutritional status and by their prior
learning.
3.18          The proposed project would improve the health and nutritional
status of children from low-income households through support for the
strengthening of primary health care (paras. 3.7-3.16). It would also cover
deficits in cognitive development for children in poor and marginal areas of the
country, who are likely to be unexposed to learning materials prior to entering
primary school.
3.19          In designing the expansion of pre-school education coverage, the
GOV has agreed that public funding for expanding pre-school coverage will be
sSee *Policies for Improving the Effectiveness of Primary
Education in Developing Countries", Education and Employment Division, World
Bank, February 20, 1990.



- 20 -
exclusively spent on schools aimed at low-income families (para. 2.9). The
schools to be built or expanded during the first year of the project have been
identified in the poorest areas of the country, based on the poverty map, and on
information received from regional or local MOE offices. Construction plans for
each year of the project would be based on the same criteria, and would be
discussed at the annual project reviews. Community garticioation would be
encouraged for school construction and repairs, and NGOs would expand their
participation, especially in non-conventional pre-school modes. The relative
participation of conventional and non-conventional modes (para. 2.8) in pre-
school expansion would be agreed annually with the Bank.
3.20          The pre-school expansion program would be managed by the Fundaci6n
PREESCOLAR, an autonomous institution linked to the Ministry of Education,
expressly created for this purpose. This would allow for streamlining local
procurement for civil works, while normative and sectoral planning functions
would continue to be the responsibility of MOE staff. The Fundaci6n PREESCOLAR
would be in charge of the day to day management of the project, and would be
headed by an administrative director, with a team of four or five officials, with
the necessary secretarial support (Chart 3).
3.21          The main objective of the pre-school development component is to
increase coverage for the population between four and six years of age from the
lowest socio-economic groups, and thus to improve care and developmental
prospects for this especially vulnerable segment of the population. The proposed
project would support the design and construction of pre-primary schools (for
children up to six years of age), as well as the provision of furniture and
instructional materials, teacher and staff training, and supervision for these
institutions. This support includ.s: (a) an expansion of coverage of the
conventional pre-school education system, expanding enrollments by about 96,000
in five years, focusing such expansion on marginal areas, both urban and rural;
and (b) an expansion of the non-conventional pre-school education system,
increasing e.rollments by about 16,000 children over the next five years. About
1,600 classrooms would be built under the project for the conventional pre-school
system; about 185 non-conventional pre-school centers would also be constructed
under the project. These figures are merely indicative, however, since the
relative expansion of the conventional and non-conventional pre-school networks
would be discussed and agreed annually with the Bank (Annex 5). Criteria for the
identification of conventional and non-conventional pre-primary se'hools to be
supported under the project, including the use of communities and NGOs have been
agreed with the Bank. The school construction program for the first year of the
project has been agreed.  School construction plans for each subsequent project
year would be discussed with the Bank and agreed at the annual project reviews
(para 6.2). The GOV, through adequate arrangements, would seek the cooperation
of the communities and NGOs in the construction and upgrading of health center
food storage areas and of pre-primary schools.
3.22          Under the conventional system, the location of the new pre-primary
schools to be constructed would be carefully selected according to the socio-
economic status of the families living in the arer. Under the non-conventional
system, centers operated by NGOs (para. 2.10) would be supported by the proposed
project. Schools to be renovated or constructed during 1991 have been
identified, and all have adequate available sites. The GOV and the Bank would
agree on annual sub-programs during the annual reviews. The expansion of the
non-conventional system would reach about ten states over the five-year period.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the GOV would retain



- 21 -
engineers, or an engineering firm to supervise civil works, starting with the
first year of construction, by July 1, 1991 (para. 6.2).
Information. Education and Communications (IEC' (US$15.8 million, including
contingencies)
3.23          The proposed project would support the development of a
comprehensive and innovative IEC program. The IEC program would be based on the
use of mass media, community participation and inter-personal communication. The
IEC activities would be designed to: (a) increase public awareness and knowledge
of health, nutrition and education principles, and support project activities;
(b) foster community education and participation through the aid of public and
private sector entities; (c) support the training modules for health-service
staff and participating communities through the development of audio-visual and
printed materials; and (d) promote the distribution and delivery of specific
services and products based on social marketing concepts.
3.24          An IEC technical group, consisting of an IEC manager and three
specialists, would be contracted under the project to coordinate media and
materials production, community-related research and training. The Office of
Technical Coordination (OTC) in the MINFAN (paras. 3.40-3.43) would be
responsible for ensuring communications and coordination across agencies and for
involving key technical personnel (nutrition, immunization, family planning,
etc.) in the design of IEC strategies and programs. The OTC would manage
technical assistance contracts with individual consultants and public and private
sector organizations, including services in community education and
participation. The OTC would be responsible for the production of mass media
programs, and the provision of technical assistance, including services for the
preparation of educational material and for their dissemination through
television, radio, and other media. The OTC would also acquire equipment and
materials required for this component, and would coordinate all training of
project-related staff.
3.25          In the absence of sufficient data to design a comprehensive, long-
term strategy for the IEC program, the IEC component is divided into two phases.
The first phase would focus on increasing public awareness and knowledge of basic
health, nutrition and education during the first 12 months. Emphasis would be on
the use of mass media (TV, radio, press) to promote "Ten Basic Health Messages."
Because these messages have been used successfully internationally, only minor
adaptations are needed prior to production. The OTC would thus contract an
advertising agency to develop, transmit and monitor the media campaign for the
'Ten Basic Health Messages."
3.26          The preparatory stage for the second phase would be carried out
concomitantly with phase one. The objective is to complete a series of tasks
essential for developing effective IEC strategies and programs for the remaining
years of the project. The tasks, which would be coordinated by the OTC, include:
(a) an assessment of the scope and capabilities of the media and
public and private communications organizations and companies, as
well as non-governmental organizations working at the community
level;



- 22 -
(b) an analysis of program documents, reports, policies, surveys and
other sources of information on basic health-care and nutrition
service delivery in order to identify issues and problems to be
addressed through specific IEC activities;
(c) formative research--i.e., qualitative, client-oriented studies,
using techniques such as surveys, key informant interviews,
ethnographic reporting, participant observation and focussed group
discussions;
(d) design of communications strategies for health and nutrition
(maternal-child health, immunization, oral rehydration therapy,
family planning and nutritioT), as well as education, including
media plans, contents and messages, channels of communication, and
monitoring and evaluation systems;
(e) production of materials to support the mass media, community
participation and inter-personal communication activities,
including product design, pre-testing, revision, and distribution;
and,
(f) development of the management tools to monitor implementation of
IEC activities and campaigns and to evaluate achievement and cost-
effectiveness of program objectives.
3.27     The MINFAM would also enter into co-production arrangements with media
organizations for the creation of programs to promote health, nutrition and
education messages. The opportunities for co-production include buying rights
for a television program such as Sesame Street; assisting in the design of health
and education-related contents in soap operas (for example: breastfeeding, family
planning, AIDS prevention, women's social roles and status); and providing
content for news programs, social documentaries and current affairs.
Satisfactory contractual arrangements for securing the rights necessary for any
programs to be co-produced with mass-media organizations would condition the
disbursement of the corresponding funds (para. 6.5).
3.28          The proposed project would rely on the experience and lessons
learned in the design, implementation and evaluation of IEC activities in health
and nutrition projects in other countries. The emphasis would be on sustained
efforts to change behavior, rather than on a series of isolated, sporadic
campaigns. The training would focus on improving the technical skills of
personnel in the respective ministries and on motivating community participation.
The development of counselling skills for health personnel in the health centers
would be a high priority. The use of mass media would not only serve to educate
the public but to reinforce the training of personnel--i.e., provide continuing
education. Special TV programs would be designed to produce educational videos
for use in training personnel and educating the public in health centers, as well
as other community settings. Community organization activities would be
undertaken both by the staff in health centers and by public and private
organizations working at the community level.
3.29     The proposed project would support the contracting of fixed-term  staff
in the IEC technical group and the costs associated with managing the IEC
component (such as travel, supervision, materials and supplies). The project



- 23 -
would finance research and special studies, principally through contracts with
local universities and national and international consultants and firms. The
project would support training activities to be carried out by the implementing
agencies, NGOs, universities, etc., as well as the development and production of
printed and audiovisual materials. The project would finance the services
contracted to develop and conduct the mass media campaigns, as well as innovative
activities, including the buying of TV rights for programs such as Sesame Street.
Institutional Development (US$4.9 million, including contingencies)
3.30          The proposed project would finance administrative costs of the
project management units at OTC, PAMI, and PREESCOLAR, including financing for
consumable materials, consultants, equipment (including computers), and operating
costs.
3.31          The proposed project would also finance special studies, which
would be coordinated by the OTC, in collaboration with MOH and MOE. The studies
are designed to: enhance the social sector data base, and thereby policy
formulation and planning; evaluate the impact of selected project activities;
improve the planning and management of the three implementing agencies; and
improve the delivery of maternal and child health-care services and the extension
of pre-school programs. Terms cf reference for these studies were discussed and
agreed at negotiations (para. 6.1). The studies, which are described below,
include general social sector studies, health sector studies, and education
sector studies.
3.32          General Social Sector Studies. These include the following:
(a) ongoing analysis of the effects of demographic changes (mor-ality,
fertility, migration) on social sector development plans ain'
policies, with the first study to be completed by December 31,
1991;
(b) study on the sources and uses of financing the social sectors,
with special emphasis on the MOH, MOE, and MINFAM, to be completed
by March 31, 1992;
(c) studies to enhance the planning and management capacity of the
KOH, MOE and MINFAM, to be prepared by each ministry by March 31,
1992; and,
(d) evaluation of the impact and cost effectiveness of the IEC
component, particularly community education and participation.
This evaluation would be continued throughout the life of the
project, with oversight from a special advisory committee.
3.33          Health Sector Studies. These include the following:
(a) evaluation of the impact of the PAMI-managed component on selected
maternal and child health indicato._s. This evaluation would become
an on-going exercise, with the first report prepared by December
31, 1991;



- 24
(b)  study on the alternatives for increasing the efficiency of health
care delivery, especially at the primary and secondary levels of
health care. The study would be completed by December 31, 1992;
(c)  study to design an action plan to attract and retain qualified
staff for the first two levels of health-care service. The study
would be completed by March 31, 1992; and,
(d)  testing and implementation of techniques and criteria to
strengthen interventions targeted for the most vulnerable groups
of women and children, particularly nutrition, immunization,
prevention and control of infectious diseases, early detection and
treatment of cervical and breast cancer, classification according
to obstetrical risk and reproductive risk criteria. The screening
and referral systems to be developed and implemented would be
derived from a series of sub-studies.
3.34          Education Sector Studies. These include the following:
(a)  study to determine the optimum, viable profile of a specialist
responsible for integrating activities (health, nutrition,
education, community education) at the pre-school level. The study
would be completed by March 31, 1992;
(b)  study on the methodologies to be applied in targeting and locating
new pre-school centers. The study would be completed by June 30,
1991;
(c)  study on the identification, evaluation and possible selection of
NGOs to participate in the expansion of the non-conventional
modality for pre-school education. The first stage of the study
would be completed by May 31, 1991; the second stage, by October
30, 1991; and the study would be finalized by April 30, 1992; and
(d)  a series of case studies at the local school level to identify the
key variables which affect management efficiency and the quality
of instruction. The studies would be completed by December 1,
1992.
3.35          The proposed project would cover the costs of social program
implementation and impact monitoring. Effective monitoring is critical to the
overall management of the government's social programs. An inter-winisterial
agreement was signed by the Ministers of the Family, Health, Education and OCEI
in March 1990, to cover improvements in administrative registers; management
information systems, and surveys of living conditions.
3.36          Periodic Household Surveys (Encuesta Ampliada de Hogares -- EAH).
An enhanced system of monitoring social conditions, based on an approach
developed in the World Bank under its Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)
program, which would be built upon OCEI's Household Survey for data collection,
processing and analysis, would be used. These surveys would continuously yield
multi-variate household information, at a level of geographical disaggregation
convenient for decision-making. The EAH would be a modified version of the
existing houisehold survey, incorporating new modules, with variables in the
fields of health (including women's reproductive health, children's health,



- 25 -
breastfeeding, and fertility), education, income and expenditures,
anthropometrics, etc. OCEI would coordinate survey implementation with other
agencies, and would be responsible for field work and data processing. Results
would be analyzed, on a regular basis, by working groups with members from those
institutions in charge of formulating and/or implementing social policies and
programs, as well as from research institutes.
3.37          Administrative Registers.  This component would also deal with the
problem of inadequate basic information by improving the quality of record
keeping (including not only service delivery but also administrative and
financial information) and the reporting system from the local, to the state and
to the central level. The proposed project would support (a) coordinating,
within the MINFAM, MOE and MOH, those units responsible for data collection; (b)
analyzing the registers themselves and (c) analyzing data processing mechanisms.
Working groups within each agency would e'valuate the statistical data processed
in the agency, and propose a mechanism for restructuring administrative
procedures for data collection and processing.
3.38          The project would support the carrying out and analysis of surveys
during the project period, including equipment, technical assistance, training,
materials and operational costs.
D. Project ImDlementation and Management
3.39          Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be
implemented over a period of approximately five and a half years, and is expected
to be completed by June 30, 1996. The closing date would be December 31, 1996.
The cost schedules prepared for the various components (Annex 6) and
implementation schedule (Annex 7) would serve as a basis for project
implementation planning and would be updated annually by the MINFAM, MOE, MOH and
OCEI, in preparation for the annual reviews. During the annual reviews with the
government (paras. 3.6, 3.45 and 3.46), the Bank would give particular attention
to the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation of project components as
well as of the Social Sectors Action Program, and changes would be agreed as
needed.
3.40          Project Management.  The organization and management of the
proposed project has been designed to: (a) reinforce the government entities and
offices, namely COPEP, FONVIS (para. 2.22) and OTC (para. 3.41-3.43), responsible
for developing, financing and coordinating poverty alleviation programs; (b)
facilitate the integrated planning and coordination of social sector activities
and programs, both public and private; (c) institute a management information
system to evaluate the implementation and impact of social sector programs and
aid in decision-making at the operational and policy-making levels; and (d)
develop a comprehensive IEC program, based on the use of mass media, community
participation and inter-personal communication, to promote and strengthen primary
health care.
3.41          The three implementing agencies, the MINFAM, MOH and MOE,
particip^te in COPEP. The NINFAM is secretariat of COPEP and responsible for
social sector analysis and policy formulation, intersectoral planning and



- 26 -
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects, and
administration of international financing in the social sectors. In addition to
its own staff, the MINFAM has two important instrumentalities to help carry out
its mandate: FONVIS, a financial management agent of MINFAM (para. 2.22), which
is responsible for managing social investment funds obtained through
international loans and grants; and OTC, which is responsible for coordinating
technical matters and managing specially-funded projects. With respect to the
proposed project, the MINFAM would have responsibility for interacting with the
Bank and overseeing project implementation through the OTC.
3.42          MINFAM would manage the Bank funds, including transfers to the
implementing agencies in accordance with approved plans and needs, and account
for their use through financial and audit reports. OTC would have several
functions: (a) liaison with the MOH and MOE and the Project Management Units
(PHUs) of their respective foundations (PAMI and PREESCOLAR); (b) intersectoral
coordination of project planning, implementation, monitoring and reporting; (c)
management of the collaborative efforts between OCEI and the MINFAM, MOH and MOE
to evaluate the impact of social sector programs and to develop effective
operational management tools; (d) contracting of technical assistance, services,
studies, and training; (e) management of the IEC component, including the
contracting of services with public and private sector entities; (f) overall
management of procurement under the project, with responsibility for all ICB; and
(g) management of the project resources targeted for the primary health care
activities to be implemented by the Directorate General-Health sector (MOH), with
the support of the CPAPS. The key staff in the OTC include: the general manager
and the managers of administration aud finance; health; and IEC (Chart 4).
Evidence of adequate arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out
of the respective components of the project (including the transfer of loan
funds) with PAMI and PREESCOLAR will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.4).
3.43          In addition to the project management unit (PMU) in the OTC, the
Government would establish PMUs in PAMI and PREESCOLAR. The PMU in PAMI would be
responsible for dealing with the procurement, distribution, and control of
powdered whole milk, vitamins, minerals, and other nutritional supplements for
the selected health centers, as well as the construction and refurbishing of food
storage areas. The key staff for PAMI include the executive director and the
managers of administration and technical coordination (Chart 2). The PMU in
PREESCOLAR would manage the pre-school development component. The key staff of
PREESCOLAR include the general manager and the managers of programming,
coordination and evaluation, as well as of management and implementation (Chart
3). OTC would manage the primary health and IEC components (para. 3.42).
3.44     The PMWs would be headed by an administrative director and carry out
primarily administrative functions. The units would be responsible for civil
works, procurement, technical assistance, finance and reporting, and general
administrative support. Staff working in the PMUs would be hired under fixed-
term appointments, exclusively for the performance of project-related duties.
Project units would thus be able to recruit and retain staff, since they are not
subject to standard civil service regulations. During negotiations, the GOV
confirmed training plans agreed during appraisal and provided evidence that the
staffing plans for the project units attached to the MINFAM, MOE and MOH have
been approved (para. 6.1). Project directors for these units have been
appointed. Evidence of appointment of key staff will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 6.4). The government will inform the Bank in writing when
these staff have been appointed.



- 27 -
3.45          Annual Reviews.  Annual reviews would be conducted jointly by the
Bank and the GOV, covering both the Social Sectors Action Program and the
implementation of project components. The annual reviews would constitute an
essential instrument in the process of social program planning and
implementation, and would be a key monitoring tool for the proposed project. The
reviews would cover annual sub-programs, including targets for the social
programs for the upcoming year, discuss proposed budget allocations, and review
the achievements obtained during the past year (Annex 5). Key indicators of
project implementation, to be used during the annual reviews, are given in Annex
8.
3.46          During negotiations, assurances were received that the government
would conduct joint annual reviews with the Bank, covering overall social program
policies and actions for the past year, and schedules of program and project
component implementation for the following year, including budgetary allocations,
following criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.2). Agreement has been
reached on the progress review criteria which would govern such reviews during
the project implementation period.
IV. PROJECT COSTS _ FINANCING. PROCURMMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs
4.1           Total project costs are estimated at about US$320.9 million
equivalent, excluding taxes and duties. Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the
estimated costs by project component and category of expenditure. Detailed costs
are presented in the tables of Annex 6.
4.2           Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in May
1990 prices, and exclude taxes and duties, which are negligible. Civil works
costs were based on estimated unit costs for the type of buildings proposed for
the various components. Furniture costs were based on lists of standard locally
available items. Equipment costs were based on prices for similar imported or
locally available items. Overseas and domestic training and costs of foreign and
local consultants were based on current standards. Operating costs were based on
current estimates of salaries and operating requirements. Total contingencies of
US$76.5 million represent 31.31 of base costs. Physical contingencies
(US$12.2 million) represent 5X of base costs; price contingencies
(US$64.3 million), about 26X of base costs, were estimated on the basis of the
implementation schedule (Annex 7) and expected annual price increases as follows:
local -- 30X for 1990, 171 for 1991, and 10 for subsequent years; foreign --
3.61 for 1990-95. The exchange rate estimates for the end of each calendar year
were as follows: Bs 54.5 for 1990; Bs 62.2 for 1991; Bs 65.7 for 1992; Bs 68.6
for 1993; Bs 72.0 for 1994 and Bs 76.5 for 1995.



- 28 -
Iable 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT LA
%      Total
Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total       Exchange  Cost
(US$ million)
Primary health care                     125.0   60.5   185.5        32.6     75.9
Pre-School development                   31.6   10.9    42.5        25.6     17.4
Information, education, communications   4.4    8.2    12.6         65.1      5.2
Institutional development                 2.2    1 6      3.8      42.1       1.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                     163.2   81.2   244.4        33.2    100.0
Physical contingencies                    8.0    4.2    12.2
Price contingencies                      50.0   14.3    64.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               221.2   99.7   320.9
/a  Net of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
4.3           Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs are estimated at about US$99.7 million equivalent including contingencies.
Based on a detailed analysis of expenditures of similar projects in the region,
the foreign exchange component for the major categories was estimated as follows:
(a) furniture and civil works, 42%; (b) construction materials, 31%
(c) equipment, 90%; (d) food, 20%; (e) foreign consultants, 100%; (f) overseas
training, 1001; (g) domestic training, 10%; (h) instructional materials, 27%;
(i) operating costs, 15X; (j) consumable materials, 18%; (k) technical assistance
and studies, 50X; and (1) IEC (information, education, and communications)
services 75X.
Financing
4.4           To meet a part of the total estimated project costs of about
US$320.9 million, the Bank would make a loan of USSlOO.0 million eauivalent
(31.21 of total estimated cost). The financing plan and loan allocations by
category of expenditure are presented in Table 4.3. Venezuelan counterpart
funding requirements would be met by the government. The Bank share of project
cost financing is lower than 501 due to the large (56%) share of food in total
project costs, which is totally financed with GOV funds, due to its recurrent
nature.



- 29 -
Tabke A,1  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Z        X Total
Foreign      Base
Local Poreign Total       Exchange      Costs
(US$ million)
Furniture                          1.0      0.7     1.7         41.2       0.7
Construction materials             2.4      1.1     3.5         31.4       1.4
Civil works                        7.3      5.4    12.7         42.5       5.2
Equipment                          3.2     29.0    32.2         90.1      12.5
Food                             114.5     28.6   143.1         20.0      55.7
Foreign consultants                0.0      0.7     0.7        100.0       0.3
Technical assistance & studies    2.5       2.4     4.9         49.0       2.0
Training                           6.1      1.5     7.6         19.7       3.0
Instructional materials            1.1      0.4     1.5         26.7       0.6
IEC services                       2.5      7.3     9.8         74.5       4.0
Operating costs                   20.8      3.7    24.5         15.1       1.3
Consumable materials               1.8      0.4     2.2         18.2      ALI
Total base costs             163.2     81.2   244.4         33.2     100.0
Physical contingencies         8.0      4.2    12.2         34.4
Price contingencies           50.0     14.3    64.3         22.2
Total                       221.2     99.7   320.9         31.1
4.5         Recurrent Costs.  Additional annual recurrent expenditures
generated when the program is in full operation are estimated at about US$40
million (including contingencies). Recurrent expenditures would consist
mainly of food purchasing and distribution (US$30 million); and teaching
honoraria, salaries and other operating costs of the pre-school development
component (US$10 million). Expenditures on food would be financed entirely
from the GOV budget throughout the life of the project; consumable materials
and operating costs would be financed by the Bank at decreasing rates (90% for
the first US$4.0 million of expenditures; 60X from US$4.0 million to US$10.0
million; and 301 thereafter (if the Bank agrees to reallocate proceeds of the
loan to this category). However, no withdrawal will be made for recurrent
costs in respect of expenditures incurred after December 31, 1994. The Bank
share of financing of recurrent costs would be relatively high at the start of
the project in recognition of GOV's 1001 financing of the recurrent costs of
food distribution, and to allow for an adjustment period to introduce
budgetary increases to cover incremental recurrent costs other than food.
Most of these funds would be used to provide operating costs, including
honoraria for teachers and promoters, for the pre-school development
component. Health service coverage increases would rely mostly on efficiency
improvements, using existing infrastructure and health center personnel,
thereby incurring only marginal incremental recurrent costs. By 1988, the GOV
was spending Bs 14.8 billion (US$400 million) annually in general food
subsidies (2% of GDP). General food subsidies have been eliminated, and



- 30 -
would be used to finance directly targeted social programs. including those
wmder the proposed project. These funds would suffice to cover the estimated
recurrent expenditures on the proposed project and other programs such as the
nutritional grants and community day-care centers without constituting an
unreasonable addition to the government's budget.
tble 4.3:  FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Proposed
gQyrnment      IBRD Loan     Total     IARD (X)
Civil works                       2.1          15.0        17.1         90
Equipment, furniture, and
construction materials          4.6          39.0        43.6         00
Food                            191.6           0.0       191.6          0
Consulting services & studies     0.0           7.1         7.1        100
Training                          0.0          10.3        10.3        100
Operating costs                  20.6          13.6        34.2         40
Instructional materials           0.2           1.8         2.0         90
Consumable materials              1.8           1.2         3.0         40
IEC services                      0.0          12.0       -12.0        10
TOTAL                    220.9         100.0       320.9       31.2
fgocurement
4.6           The government would follow Bank procurement guidelines and
procedures for the proposed project. Cost of civil works under the project
(about US$17.1 million, including contingencies) would involve refurbishing
and construction to pre-primary schools, construction of new pre-primary
schools, and repairs and additions to health centers for food warehousing and
distribution. Contracts for works would be awarded according to local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank and which would
allow foreign bidders to participate. Works would be packaged in regional
contracts, and to the extent practicable would be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent each. About 25-30 such
contracts are expected throughout project life. Because of the dispersed and
remote location of pre-primary schools and health facilities to be built or
upgraded, and average expected contract amounts below US$1 million, interest
from foreign bidders is very unlikely. Works )stimated to cost up to
US$25,000 equivalent may be executed by force account of the executing agency
or procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of at least
three price quotations in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank
and aggregating to no more than US$200,000. The GOV would employ engineers or
engineering firms to supervise civil works under the project (para. 3.22).
The government has provided evidence that sites for all civil works to be
undertaken during the first 24 months of the project are ready and available
for building (para. 6.1).



- 31 -
4.7           The total cost of aeqipment (including vehicles) is estimated
at about US$37.4 million, including contingencies, of which about 80X would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in
accordance with Bank guidelines, and the remainder through LCB or local
shopping (by inviting at least three quotations). Contracts in excess of
US$200,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Where ICB procedures are
used, goods manufactured locally would be given a preference margin of 15.
Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or less, but more
than the equivalent of US$25,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$5.2 million, may be awarded in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures locally advertised, satisfactory to the Bank. Goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to US$2.0 million may be procured by procedures of local/international
shopping acceptable to the Bank. The government prepared and brought to
negotiations updated equipment lists for equipment procurement (para. 6.1).
4.8           Construction materials for improvement and reconstruction for
informal pre-primary schools or warehouses at health centers would be procured
under local shopping procedures, on the basis of competitive price quotations
from at least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines, for packages not
exceeding US$25,000 equivalent and aggregating to no more than US$3 million.
Procurement for larger packages, not exceeding US$200,000, for building
materials for informal pre-primary schools would be administered centrally by
the MOE, using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The necessary skills
and labor would be provided by the community, with technical expertise and
supervision furnished by an engineering firm contracted for this purpose
(para. 3.22).
4.9           Packages for furniture would be small, and the furniture would
be delivered in small quantities to scattered destinations. Packages under
$25,000, aggregating to US$2.5 million, would be procured under local shopping
procedures; packages between $25,000 and $200,000 would be procured using LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. No package is expected to be above
$200,000.
4.10          FQO  would be procured by the GOV without loan financing.
Instructional materials are of diverse categories, and would be procured in
small packages, mostly under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
CgMultants required for the project would be hired following the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Foreign consultants would not be
subject to prior registration as a condition of their participation in the
selection process. Registration would be a pre-condition, not of selection,
but of contracting of consultant services.
4.11          The aggregate amount financed by the proposed project for
equipment, construction materials, furniture, and instructional materials
would not exceed US$8.6 million equivalent for LCB contracts, and would not
exceed US$5.5 million for local/international shopping procedures.
4.12          The aforementioned procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 4.4. Prior Bank review would be required only for contracts exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent. Other contracts and bid evaluations would be subject
to selective post-award review by Bank staff. All ICB procurement would
follow Bank guidelines and bidding documents would use agreed models based on
the Bank's sample bidding documents for goods and works. Sample bidding



- 32 -
documents for civil works (LCB) and goods procurement (ICB and LcB) were
discussed at negotiations. Agreement on model bidding documents to be used
for the procurement of goods (ICB and LCB) and works (LCB) will be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 6.4).
Table 4.4:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Cat,egory of Expenditure              Procurement Procedure             Total
IC      LCB      Other     &            Costs
Civil works                      -     16.8       0.3        -           17.1
-    (14.9)     (0.2)      '           (15.1)
Equxipment                     29.6     5.2       2.6        -           37.4
(26.6)   (4.7)     (2.0)       -          (33.3)
Food                                 -             -      191.6         191.6
-l-       -      (0.0)          (0.0)
Construction materials                  1.0       3.0                     4.0
(0.8)     (2.8)                   (3.6)
Furniture                        -      1.7       0.5        -            2.2
-     (1.6)     (0.4)      -            (2.0)
Foreign and local                -       -         -        7.1           7.1
consultants and studies          -       -         -       (7.1)         (7.1)
Training                         -       -         -       10.3          10.3
-       -         -     (10.3)         (10.3)
IEC Services                     -       -         -      12.0           12.0
-         -     (12.0)         (12.0)
Instructional materials          -      1.6      0.4         -            2.0
-     (1.5)    (0.3)       -            (1.8)
Operating costs                  -       -        -       37.2           37.2
and consumable materials         -       -        -       (14.8)        (14.8)
TOTAL          29.6     26.3      6.8     258.2          320.9
(26.6)   (23.5)   (5.7)    (44.2)         (100.0)
Totals represent total estimated costs per category including price and
physical contingencies.
Numbers between brackets reflect Bank financing.
DiW=usements
4.13          The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of
about six years (Table 4.5), based on a combination of relevant standard IBRD



- 33 -
disbursement profiles for similar countries in the LAC region. The
disbursement profile used takes into account the fact that the primary health
component (comprising about 76X of total project costs) is expected to
disburse smoothly, as it has a very small amount of civil works (limited to
warehouse cnnstruction or repair in existing health centers). The profile was
modified to include the opening of the special account during the initial
implementation stages.
Table 4.5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursements
and Semester                  Semester Cumulative        X          -Semester
(US$ million)
1991
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)            6.4        11.4         6.1              1
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)            4.9        11.3        10.8              2
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)            7.9        19.2        18.4              3
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)            9.3        28.5        27.2              4
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)            9.8        38.3        36.6              5
1994
Ist (Jul 93-Dec 93)           10.4        48.7        46.6              6
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)           11.0        59.7        57.1              7
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)           11.0        70.7        67.6              8
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)           10.4        81.1        77.5              9
1996
1st (Jul 95-Dec 95)           10.0        91.1        87.1             10
2nd (Jan 96-Jun 96)            8.9       100.0        95.6             11
1997
1st (July 96-Dec 96)           4.6       104.6       100.0             12
Closing Date: Decenber 31, 1996.
4.14          Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1996
(Closing Date) and would be made against the following categories of
expenditure covering the activities to be financed under the proposed project:
(i) civil works--90 of total expenditures; (ii) equipment (including
vehicles) --100 of CIF cost of foreign expenditures; 100l of ex-factory costs



- 34 -
of locally manufactured goods; and 65X of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; (iii) IEC, training, and consulting services--100S of total
expenditures; (iv) operating costs and consumable materials--on a declining
basis: 90X up to US$4.0 million equivalent; 60X from US$4.0 to US$10.0 million
equlvalent; and 301 thereafter, Lf the Bank agrees to reallocate proceeds of
the loan to this category; but no wlthdrawals shall be made for recurrent
costs in respect of expenditures incurred after December 31, 1994;
(v) furniture, construction materials and instructional materials --901 of
total expenditures.
4.15          Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for
goods and services with a contract value of US$100,000 or more would be
supported by full documentation. Contracts below US$100,000 and other
disbursements against activities not undertaken by contract would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which suprorting documents
would be maintained by the MOH, MOE, and MINFAM and would be made available
for Bank staff review. Because of the large volume of disbursement expected
to be claimed under SOEs, special efforts would be made for the selective
review of SOE documentation by visiting Bank missions. A Special Account in
US dollars would be opened at the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of
US$5.0 million equivalent, corresponding to about four months of project
expenditures.
Auditing and Regorting
4.16          KOH, MOE and MINFAM would keep separate accounts for project
expenditures ln accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures. The MINFAM, in collaboration with the project units and other
project implementation staff at MOE and KOH, would maintain separate accounts
for the proposed project. The accounts would show expenditures for each
project component, subdivlded by expenditures financed by the Bank and the
government. All project accounts, the Special Account and all disbursements
against SOEs would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. The government
would submit to the Bank the audit reports of expenditure within six months of
the closure of each fiscal year. The audit reports would certify that funds
were used for the purposes for which they were provided. Assurances were
recelved at negotiations that the GOV would comply with these requirements
(para. 6.2).
4.17          The MINFAM would also submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on
project implementatlon and expenditures, special reports prior to annual
reviews, and a flnal report on implementation experience and project outcome
(Project Completion Report) within six months of the Closing Date of the
proposed project. Assurances were received at negotiations that the GOV would
comply with these requirements (para. 6.2).



35 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1           The proposed project would help cushion the negative effects of
adjustment for the most vulnerable groups in Venezuela, while at the same time
improving resource allocation and efficiency in the implementation of selected
social programs. It would have direct effects on the nutritional status of
pregnant and lactating women, infants, and pre-school children, and would
provide improved associated services such as pre-school education and primary
health care. It supports the GOV's strong commitment to poverty alleviation.
By 1995, the proposed project would: increase health and nutrition service
coverage from about 200,000 to 420,000 pregnant women; from about 80,000 to
360,000 post-natal women; from 245,000 to 640,000 infants under two years of
age; and from 370,000 to 916,000 children between two and six years of age;
expand coverage of formal and informal preschool education by about 116,000
children from poor and disadvantaged families; improve administrative
registers for health and education; establish a management information system
for the social sectors; and conduct periodic household surveys to monitor the
impact of social programs.
5.2           ImRact on Women.  The project would benefit women, especially
poor women, in Venezuela. Towards project completion, about 400,000 pregnant
and 360,000 lactating women (about 50X of pregnant and lactating women) would
have access to primary health care and nutrition services. This includes not
only pre-natal and post-natal care, but also food distribution, nutritional
counseling, health education, medical services for women's reproductive care,
early cervical and breast cancer detection, and family planning. In addition,
the expansion of the community day care centers and preschool system in the
poor and marginal areas would not only give girls from poor families better
opportunities for improved school achievement, after an adequate head start,
but would also allow women to pursue additional opportunities for productive
employment.
Risks
5.3           The main risk derives from the lack of experience of the
government in preparing and executing social sectors projects with external
financing, especially from the Bank. The implementing ministries do not have
project staff familiar with international procurement of goods, wotks, or
consultants, or, more generally, with Bank guidelines. Since this would be
the first Bank investment projoct in Venezuela after a long hiatus, domestic
implementation capacity needs to be strengthened. The project would provide
training and technical assistance for the implementing agencies. A country
assessment of local procurement practices has been completed, and a
procurement seminar would be conducted for project staff. Frequent and
intense supervision would be undertaken. A project launch workshop to cover
implementation aspects such as Bank procedures, procurement and disbursement
mechanisms, would take place soon after loan effectiveness.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
6.1           The government brought to negotiations the following, for Bank
review and agreement:
(a) evidence that sites for all civil works to be undertaken during
the first 24 months of the project are ready and available for
building (para. 4.6);
(b)  updated equipment lists for equipment procurement (para. 4.7);
and
(c) terms of reference for studies (para. 3.31); training plans;
and staffing plans for the program coordination and project
implementation units at OTC, PAMI, and PREESCOLAR (para. 3.44).
6.2           At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the GOV would prepare and furnish to the Bank by not later than
December 1 of each year, starting in 199', annual social
program targets, project implementation plans and budgets; and
conduct, with Bank participation, annual reviews covering
overall Social Sectors Action Program targets, policies and
actions, project implementation for the past year, and
schedules of project implementation, including school
construction plans and budgetary allocations for the following
year, following criteria acceptable to the Bank. The first
annual review with the government would be held by December 1,
1991, and subsequent reviews would be conducted every year
during project execution. Specific progress review criteria
satisfactory to the Bank have been agreed (paras 3.6, 3.21,
3.45 and 3.46);
(b) the GOV would employ engineers or engineering firms to
supervise civil works under the respective components of the
project by July 1, 1991 (para. 3.22);
(c) the GOV would maintain and audit all project accounts
(including the Special Account and all disbursements under
SOEs) and submit them annually for Bank review (para. 4.16);
(d) the GOV would prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports on project implementation and prepare and
submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report within six
months after the closing date of the loan (para. 4.17); and,



- 37 -
(e) if a situation arises which makes it improbable that the Social
Sectors Action Program, or a significant part thereof, be
carried out, the Bank will be entitled to suspend
disbursements, either partially or totally (para. 3.6).
6.3           The GOV has sent a letter to the Bank, signed by the Ministers
of Health, Education, and the Family, confirming the Social Sectors Action
Program agreed at negotiations (para. 3.3).
6.4           As conditieiis of effectiveness, evidence will be provided that:
(a) the GOV, through OTC, has made adequate arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of the
respective components of the project (including transfer of
loan funds) with PAMI and PREESCOLAR (para. 3.42);
(b) key staff for OTC, PAMI, and PREESCOLAR, as agreed at
negotiations, have been appointed (para. 3.44); and,
(c) model bidding documents to be used for the procurement of goods
(LCB and ICB) and works (LCB) have been agreed (para. 4.12).
6.5           As conditions of disbursement for co-production activities with
media organizations, evidence of satisfactory contractual arrangements for
securing the corresponding rights will be provided to the Bank (para. 3.27).
Recommendation
6.6           Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million equivalent to
the Government of Venezuela, repayable in 15 years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
VENEtULA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabl- 1: COMPARATIVE SOCIAL INDICATORS IN SELECTD COUNTRIES
Countries    Por Capita      Intent       Child        Lit.        Oeaths      Acces    Secondary
GOP (UnS)    mortality    Death       Expectancy    due to        to      School
1987          Rate        Rate        (y aea)      Parasitet    Health   Enrollment
(per 1000)  (per 1000)                   (          (U)        (S)
Venezuela    8,280             28           2           70            6.2        78        88
Argentino    2,870             29           1           70            2.0        70        70
Panama       2,240             28           1           72            6.7        80        59
Costo RIc    1,590             17           1           74           3.6         80        41
Chile        1,810             19           0           i1            4.4        8S        69
COMPARATIVE SOCIAL EXPENDITURES
(Centr I Government Only)
Countries         Educatton                       Helth                 Total Social Exponditures
1972      1986                1972      1985                  1972     1985
(U ot OGP)
VYnezuala        4.0       5.1                2.0       1.9                   8.5      10.9
Brzstl           1.5        1.4               1.2       1.8                   8.6        a.8
Mexico           2.0       3.1                0.6       0.4                   5.6       0.2
Korea            2.9       8.4                0.2       0.8                   4.2       4.9
Chile            0.2       4.7                8.5       2.1                  26.9      22.1
Costa RIca       C.8       4.7                0.7      56.                    11.0     14.8
(X of Total Central ovornmsnt Budget)
Venezuela       18.6      19.6               11.7       6.1                  89.5      42.6
Brazi            0 .8      6.6                0.7       6.5                  60.0      41.7
Mexico          16.4      11.5                5.1       1.4                  40.5      24.8
Korea           15.6      16.1                1.2       1.5                  22.9      28.8
Chill           14.8      12.5                6.2       0.0                  62.8      62.2
Coot RICa       26.8      16.2                8.6      19.8                  58.8      60.0
Source: World Sank, Social Indicators ot Devolomment, 1980; Feeding Latin America's Children (1969),
World DOvelopment Report, 1986; and mission estimates.
Note:  Total social expenitures Include expenitureson eucation, health, housing and soclal security.



VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: HEALTH STATUS - COMPARATIVE INDICES
GNP per       Lito       Crude Birth   Crude Death   Population   Daily Calorie   Bables with
Capito     Expectancy      Rat.          Rate           Per       Supply per    Low Birth Weights
(1987 US$)    (Years)     (per 1000)   (per 1000)    Physician       Capita          (porcent)
(1987)      (1987)       (1987)          (1987)       (1984)       (1980)            (1986)
Industrialized Economies     14,070         76             13            9           450           a,890             n.a.
LAC Region
-Trinidad & Tobeo             4,210         70             26            7           960           3,082             n.s.
-Venezuela                    3,280         To             31             6          700           2,494             9
-Ar9ontino                    2,890         71             21            9           870           3,210             6                    
-Uruguay                      2,190         71             19           11           510           2,648             8
-Broz11                       2,020         es             28            8         1,080           2,658             8
-Mexico                       1,830         69             29            6         1,240           8,132            15
-Costs Rica                   1,610         74             28            4           960           2,80S             9
-Chile                        1,310         72             24            a         1,230           2,679             7
-Colombia                     1,240         s6             26            7         1,190           2,643            15
-Jamalca                        940         74             26            8         2,060           2,690             8
Source: World Bank - World Development Report, 1939.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
VENEUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table a: VENEZUELA: POPULATION PROJECTIONS
YEARS
1990       1996       2000       2005      2015      2025
Total Population ('000)       19.761    22,144        24,410    28,512   80,284   85,744
Population (0-14)  (percent)    89.8       88.8         ss.0       80.5      25.6     28.4
Population (15-44) (percent)    58.2       59.8         82.8       65.0     68.4      08.1
Population (65.)   (percent)     8.6        8.9          4.2        4.0      6.1       8.6
Birth Rot*                      80.7       27.8         28.9       21.1      17.9     16.6
Death Rate                       6.2        4.9          4.7        4.8       5.4      0.a
Rate of Natural Increase         2.55       2.24         1.92       1.64      1.25     1.08
Not Migration Rate                .8         .6           .8         .2       .0        .0
Growth Rate                      2.08       2.29         1.95       1.65      1.25     1.08
Total Fertility                  a.770      a.as6        2.928      2.540    2.099    2.090
Not Reproduction Rate            1.752      1.570        1.878      1.207     1.000    1.000
Infant Mortality Rate           80.0       81.0         20.1      21.0      18.9      16.2
Dependency Rata                 71.9       07.1         60.6       54.0     46.2      46.8
Source: World Bank - Latin America and The Caribbean Region (LAC) PoDulatlon Pro]ections,
1989-90 Edition, PPR Working Paper No. 829, November 1989.



-42 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4t VENEZUELA: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
BY REGION (1986)
Region                       Type I & II                   Population per
Health Centers                 Health Center
Anzoategui                          290                          2,675
Apure                                84                          2,797
Aragua                               95                         12,105
Barinas                             157                          2,643
Bolivar                             173                          4,959
Carabobo                             86                         16,139
Cojedes                              97                          1,773
Dist. Fed.                          145                         17,221
Falcon                              216                          2,726
Guarico                             138                          3,239
Lara                                226                          4,982
Merida                              168                          3,375
Miranda                             133                         13,323
Monagas                             219                          2,119
Nueva Esparta                        73                          3,369
Portuguesa                          151                          3,556
Sucre                               195                          3,549
T.F. Amazonas                        69                          1,057
T.D. Amacuro                         70                          1,214
Tachira                             186                          4,215
Trujillo                            302                          1,709
Yaracuy                              77                          4,532
Zulia                               230                          8,813
Venezuela                         3,580                          4,969
Sources PAHO/MOH
Note:   Type I Health Centers are staffed with auxiliary nurses in rural
areas and by general practitioners and nurses in urban areas. Type
II Health Centers are staffed with general physicians and some
specialists.



- 43 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public ExDenditures in the Social Sectors1
I. Introduction
1.01     An overall look at the evolution of pr%lic expenditure related to
education and health in Venezuela for the last fifteen years reveals that
it has been growing both as a fraction of total Government spending, and as
a percentage of GNP. Despite a general recessionary economy during the
last ten years, there was an expenditure switch towards social services.
1.02     In spite of an overall growing trend, the distribution of
expenditure between personnel, inputs and material, and investment shows an
imbalance, resulting in a lack of complementary inputs in some places, and
excess capacity in some others. Personnel expenditure has been growing
proportionally as the result of a historically-based budgeting system
biased towards personnel expenditure at the cost of reductions in
operational inputs and materials. A series of extra-budgetary investment
plans has increased the physical infrastructure of the social sectors,
disregarding spatial and technical considerations, resulting in localized
excess capacity and in inadequate regional distribution of facilities.
More coordination between planning, budgeting, and operation is needed, at
the ministerial level and for the national five-year plan made by
CORDIPLAN.
1.03     The overall contraction of Government spending since 1980 has put
pressures to reduce budget allocations. These have resulted in
historically-based allocations, rather than based on operational needs or
planned targets. Personnel expenditure has been protected by this system,
given the political power of public employees unions and/or the need to
cover outstanding liabilities (as pension plans) resulting from collective
labor contracts. Operational inputs and equipment have been systematically
underfunded, resulting in a generalized lack of complementary inputs that
hinders operational capacity and reduces quality and coverage. On the
other hand, personnel expenditure budgeting does not incorporate adequate
provisions for wage increases and human capital investments that should be
an essential component of an adequate human resource policy.
1.04     Operational responsibilities within the sectors is fragmented,
with one institution in charge of personnel and operational expenditure,
another in charge of maintenance and repairs, and still other for building
new infrastructure. Better coordination between all these institutions is
needed to prevent resource misallocation and imbalances of complementary
expenditures.
Bt Based on Gustavo Marquez, "The Recent Evolution of Public Expenditure
in Education, Health and Housing in Venezuela'; IESA, Caracas, January
1990.



44-                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
I1. The Evolution of Social Spending in Venezuela
2.01     Social expenditure has increased over the last 15 years, both as a
share of GDP, and a share of total Government expenditure, as shown in
Table 1. Social expenditure grew faster than the other total Government
expenditures since the slowdown of economic growth at the end of the
seventies.
Table 1: Th- EVOLUTION OF SOCIAL SPENDING
1970   1976   lS80    1985
Education Expenditure/GDP    4.8X   4.9X   5.0X    t.9X
Health Expenditure/GODP      2.4X   2.1X   1.71    2.6x
Education Expenditure/CGGE  18.4%   18.6%   16.7X   21.1%
Health Expenditure/COGE     10.6%    6.9%   5.6x    9.8%
Source: Marquez - The Evolution of Public Expenditure In Education, Health
and Housing In Venezuela, ZESA, Caracas 1990.
Notet COGE = Centrel General Government Expenditure.
2.02     The relative protection of social spending when compared with
overall spending is partly due to the higher weight of current expenditure
(83 percent) in social expenditure. Because current expenditure is mostly
wages, reduction in this kind of spending is synonymous with either a fall
of employment, a decline of real wages, or both. The public sector in
Venezuela is highly unionized, so that reductions in either real wages or
employment are generally avoided, only to be used when all other components
of expenditure have reached their feasible minimum.
2.03     In per capita terms, by 1985 social spending in Education
represents Bs. 4.199.3 (at 1989 prices), while Health reached Bs 1.844.
These values represented average annual rates of growth between 1970 and
1985 of 3.6 percent for Education, and 1.8 percent for Health. As a whole,
social spending in per capita terms always grew faster than GDP, tough the
evolution of each of the components in social spending varies widely across
the period.
III. The Education Sector
3.01     Public education in Venezuela is free at all levels, and
compulsory up to the end of elementary school. The official target for
elementary school is 100 percent coverage. Universal education has been
perceived as a symbol of democracy, and has been an important mechanism for
social advancement for some groups of the population.



- 45 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
3.02     Educational services delivered by the public sector are largely
centralized by the Minlstry of Education (MOE), which fulfills roles as
direct provider of services, as planning and budgeting unit for the sector,
and overseer of the whole (public and private) educational system. The
educational system is highly centralized at the operational and funding
level. Elementary, high school, special, and adult education is directly
delivered, and budgeted, by the MOE. Higher education funding is also
provided through the budget of the MOE. All budget allocations to
Autonomous Institutions within the educational sector are made through the
MOE budget. The MOE also coordinates and allocates resources to the
Regional Government educational activities. One exception to this rule is
budgeting of infrastructure construction and equipment, the fiLst taken
care by the Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano (MINDUR), the second through a
public sector foundation, FEDE, which receives budget allocations from both
MINDUR and MOE.  The other special case is the INCE (a vocational education
institution), which receives funds through the MOE budget, but also
finances its activities through a payroll tax.
3.03     The MOE is also the source of funding for higher education
institutions.  Some of them, the universities, are autonomous
administrative and operational units, while the rest are dependent from the
MOE for all administrative and operational activities. This makes for a
complex mechanism of budget allocation within the public educational
system, where different institutions act formally at different levels to
present budgetary requests which must be accommodated within a gross figure
fixed by the Central Government.
3.04     Regarding infrastructure and equipment for education, MINDUR is in
charge of school buildings, while FEDE, a public sector foundation, was in
charge of providing equipment for new schools, and maintenance and repairs
for existing buildings until April 1990. MINDUR plays an important role in
the expansion of the physical infrastructure of the educational system.
The system of political negotiation plays an important role at the cost of
minimizing the technical aspects of planning. However, in this case the
fact that no direct coordination exists between MOE and MINDUR makes for a
hazardous system for infrastructure building that could be totally
disconnected from the detected needs of the educational system. Finally,
up to April 1990, equipment was budgeted by FEDE, an institution formally
independent from both MOE and MINDUR. This institution was created just to
ensure that independent funding would exist for equipment and repair of
schools, but is presently being phased out. Table 2 shows the
institutional distribution of consolidated public expenditure in education.
The MOE directly executes around 60 percent of total expenditures. Higher
education institutions execute in 1988 28 percent of the total budget,
while autonomous institutions execute around 10 percent. The rest is
accounted for investment expenditure realized directly by MINDUR.



- 46 -                            MM  2
Page 4 of 12
lakbisis 11M DTI1UIIWEA* 01651T106O OF C4SCU0ATO PtWLC E(POXIID IN S.CAT10
198     1985    1966    19    1988
(as .,vmn .f
WaI.wy of Idcation      S2.7    IS1.701  57.64    s1.2   58.651
flicker iNucatimn InWtuato    8 7.on    88.4   29.095  2B.0i  2?.8
Auto     Ie.ti tat.a     7.nti   7.8915  8.95    9.e5.6    9.864
FMS                     1.0     1.7    2.88    2.798    2.5m
Omwr                    6.65    5.65   6.455   6.89    7.265
i11l855                  2.18611   2.4S   8.95    8.05    3.745
6.r.,.: iBaqc (1990)
3.05      Table 3 shows the program composition of the MOE budget. It
indicates a decrease in the relative importance of direct educational
activities, parallel to an increase in the importance of support and
planning activities. Within educational programs, elementary education
increased its share, while higher education reduced its participation.
Table 8: THE PROGRAM COWOSITON OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION BUDGE
1980      1984       1980
Ministry d Education
Support, Planning & Adminiot.      80.2X     26.2X      88.2X
Educatioal Programs               88.89      74.91      68.8%
. Pre-school, sltensory a *pec.   10.98      30.2X      24.9%
. High-shool education             5.9%       B.6.5      4.8X
. Adult education !/               2.01       2.4X       1.8X
. Highew education                42.15      85.7%     J8.4X
e/ Includes Vocational training.
Soureo: Marque (190)



- 47 -                       ANEX 2
Page 5 of 12
3.06     Regarding officiency in the allocation of public resources to
education in terms of the relative growth of the segments of the
educational system, and in terms of quality of the education delivered,
available indicators suggest that resource allocation in education has been
excessively tilted towards higher education (universities and colleges).
and too little has been dedicated to high-school education. This does not
seem to be justified either in terms of the population covered, or in terms
of social rates of return to different levels of achievement in the
educational system.2
3.07     Literacy and specific school attendance rates are shown in
Table 4. Elementary education coverage is high, even if below the
100 percent target. Venezuela ranks tenth in gross coverage for elementary
schooling among Latin America, fifteenth for high school, and fifth for
higher education.3 These rankings indicate some disproportion between
coverages in high school and higher education, suggesting that the
progression path through the educational system has a bottleneck in the
transit between elementary and high school, where coverage rates drop
sharply. In fact, the Venezuelan educational system seems to deliver two
types of outputt a person vith elementary schooling, or a person with more
than 13 years of schooling with a university degree. There are no
alternatives for elementary school graduates who do not want to pursue a
general secondary education, beyond INCE and a few other technical schools.
Tgble 4s EUCATION - SELECTED INDICATORS
1906     1960     1984      198t
Llterac  tet                           87.7      89.6      00.2
10-14 rorv old                       90.1       97.0      906.4
15-24 yore old                        9S.2      9B.8     90.5
25 yar. old and aore                  *1.1      81.s       .S
Seb"l e_eadmact rat. (per hundred persons of the age group)
Prc-_chool                   19.4     29.6      U3.7      88.9
Elemntery education          81.0    86.0       86.2      86.2
High school                  81.8     U8.6      87.8      80.0
Higher educetion             15.2     17.4      19.2      21.6
P.rtielpatze of PubUe Secter es totl enrolluI
Prechool                     76.6X    80.11i    84.06     6a.4s
Eleetary education           69.03    6.651    88.51      89.0t
High chool                   62.63    80.$X     61.90     61.6%
Higher education             ?0.63    67.13    61.53      78.93
Source: Iarqe (100)
21  For an evaluation of social rates of return on education, see
Psacharopoulos, G. and Steir, E. "Education and the Labor Market in
Venezuela, 1975-1984%, Economics of Education Review (3, 1988)s321-332.
3/  See IDB. 'Pro,- -eso Economico y Social en America Latina - Informe 1989'



- 48 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
3.08     This observation is further confirmed by an analysis of the
evolution of expenditure by student in different levels of the educational
system. By 1988, high-school education ranks last between all levels of
the educational system, while higher education expenditure by student is
more than 10 times that of elementary education (see Table 5).
Table Ss EXPENDITURE BY STUDENT IN MINISTRY OF DUCATION
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
(constnt 1989 Be.)
19S0     1984     1988
Educational Pogrrm
* Pro-school, elemntary A spec.  4,500    S,8U  4,608
, High-school               5,009    4,858    8,097
, Higher education         91,070   83,118   54,858
Source: Marquez (1990)
IV. The Health Sector
4.01     The most important institutions in terms of population and
geographical coverage are the Ministry of Health (MO0) and the Venezuelan
Sociul Security Institute (IVSS). The MOB system theoretically covers all
inhabitants, being a universal health system with free access, financed
through the Central Government budget. The IVSS is partly financed through
a universal payroll tax, though it also receives funds through the Ministry
of Labor budget, and access to the system is restricted to affiliated
employees and their families. A large fraction of workers in the informal
sector do not have access to the IVSS system as they are not registered by
their employers.
4.02     The MO0 has a complex organizational structure, where the main
actors are the Direccion General Sectorial de Salud, the Direccion General
de Malariologia y Saneamiento Ambiental, and the 23 Direcciones Sub-
regionales de Salud. The first is a central unit in charge of formulation
of health policy, the second is an operational unit in charge of the
central and regional operations of the sanitation and prevention services.
All operations of hospitals and health centers dependent frci MOH is
controlled and supervised by the Direcciones Sub-regionales de 3alud, which
in fact act as local representatives of MOH in the regions.
4.03     Regarding infrastructure, again MINDUR comes into play as builder
of new hospitals and general health infrastructure. No formal coordination
of MO0 and MINDUR exists, so infrastructure construction does not
necessarily follow the MOH planning of delivery of health services.



- 49 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
4.04     Table 6 shows the distribution of MOH expenditure by program.  The
activity that increased its share was Support, Planning and Administration,
while all other activities decreased in weight within the budget. Medical
Attention, Disease Control and Prevention, and Environmental Control
redaced their importance within the MOH budget. Given the increase in
health risks associated with the economic situation since 1980 this seems
quite dangerous. Particular attention deserves the case of Disease Control
and Prevention. The apparition of urban foci of malaria in 1988 was due to
the lack of sanitation activities during the last decade. As enormous
investments were done during the forties in Venezuela to control malaria in
rural areas, the resurgence of this disease forty years later casts doubts
about the long term consistency of sanitary policy and, by implication, of
resource allocation within the health sector.
Table 6: THE DISTRIBUTION OF MINISTRY OF HEALTh
EXPENDITURE BY PROGRAII
1980     1984     1988
Support, Planning & Administ.  67.8%    E8.1%    70.0X
Medical Attention             08.5%    87.01    25.5%
Disease Control and Prevention  8.8%     8.4X     2.8X
Environmentl Control            1.9%     1.4X     0.9%
Source: Marquez (1990)
4.05     Table 7 shows that the share of personnel in total MOH expenditure
expanded from 52 percent to 73 percent between 1980 and 1988. At the same
time, the share of operations and maintenance expenditures was halved. The
increase in the share of personnel, together with the reduction of
optrational expenditures, poses the question of availability of
complementary inputs in the delivery of services. In many instances it has
been reported that persons seeking medical attention at a public hospital
must provide their own medicines, cotton, and bandages. This shows that
some form of direct payment for health services is already imposed on the
users of the system. This form of payment does not have any relationship
with the user's ability to pay, or with priorities regarding who and what
should be financed through public funding of the health system. Now, if
payments are to be used as restrictions of access to the public health
system, there should be a rationale based on ability to pay or kind of
service to be paid for. The present system does not respond to any of
these criteria, and obstructs access to the health system for the poorer
groups of the population.



- 50 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 12
Table 7: TW  COMPOSMON OF MINISTR OF HEALIN
EXPENDITURE
(shares of total consolidated expenditure)
1980     1904     1980
ITAL
Current Expenditure              90.4       99.6X     99.21
of which: Per"onnel              524X      72.91    75.1X
Operations * Maintenance    42.?X  22.61X    22.0X
Tranefera to Private Sector  8.8X   8.99     4.1X
Capital                            1.61      0.6X     0.8X
Sources Marquez (1990)
4.06     General indicators of the health situation (Table 8) show a
definite long-term improvement for Venezuela. Infant mortality rates have
dropped sharply since 1975; within diagnosed mortality causes, enteritis
and diarrhea are low; the number of physicians and nurses per capita have
increased; and the number of hospitals and hospital beds per inhabitant has
increased somewhat. Regional distribution of resources, though, is not
equitable, and low-income, high-risk regions are not adequately covered.
On the other hand, the health system is too centralized at the hospital
level, where attention is extremely expensive, and not enough resources are
Invested in prevention and entry-level attention, which could also be more
cost-effective.
4.07     Experts on the field agree almost universally about the importance
of the integration of the multiple health sub-systems in a National Health
Service. A law has been enacted creating the National Health Service, but
implementation is slow, as it has to break the resistance of physicians, of
unions, and sometimes of users, who perceive that the unification of the
system could damage their respective vested interests.
4.08     Lack of complementary inputs is without doubt the most serious
issue facing the system today, competing with duplication of services in
some regions and insufficiency of facilities in some others. The
unification of the health delivery system could solve both issues, as it
would free planning and general overhead resources that could be used to
provide complementary inputs.
4.09     The number of immunizations per children under four years somewhat
deteriorated in the period between 1984 and 1987. This is a worrying trend
because it could increase the incidence of preventable diseases, thus
raising demand on the medical attention system.
In



- 51 -                            AUANEX 2
Page 9 of 12
T*l- 9: SELECTED HEALTH SITUATION INDICATORS
1976      1980       1984         19l
Infant Mortality (rates per 1,000 liv. birthe)
Total les than 1 year old                           43.8       81.7      28.5        28.0
"bonMI                                              21.7       16.J      15.7        14.6
Pot-natal                                           22.1       15.0      12.6        10.3
General mortality by cause  (rates per 100,000 persons)
Total                                              621.6      662.2    487.6        448.8
Ieart dls                                           79.6       68.6     74.4         78.5
Acoidente                                           55.7      68.6      47.0         44.9
Cancer                                              54.0       58.0     49.0         U4.4
Affections originated at birth                      46.7       40.6     88.1         U1.6
Cerebro-vascular d    tecae                         80.5       38.2     26.5         28.4
Pneumonias                                          88.9       21.0     16.7         18.1
Entritto and other diarreic                         36.5       21.0     15.9         12.6
Suicidee and homicidee                              12.8       14.7     15.8         11.6
Huan Resources (per 1,000 Inhabitante)
Physicians                                           1.18       1.17     nla          1.65
Graduate nurse                                       0.68      0.79      n/a          0.79
Auxiliary nur                                        1.94       2.86    n/a           2.19
Odonthologi te                                       0.81      0.85    n/a             n/.
Other                                                0.28       n/a     n/.            n/.
Infrastructure and oquipmant
Hospitals (per 100,000 Inhabitants)                     8.17       8.29    3.04          2.96
Public                                               1.55       1.22    1.26          1.28
Private                                              1.62       2.07     1.77         1.70
Hoop. beds (per 1,000 lnhabitante)                      2.99       2.97    2.72          2.81
by ad eription
Public                                               2.49       2.28    2.09          2.01
Private                                              0.50      0.70    0.64           0.60
Iinunizatione (per children under 4 yarr)
Polio                                                1.42       1.38    1.00          0.65
Triple (OPT)                                         0.44       0.81    0.26          0.26
masles                                               0.21      0.27    0.19           0.25
Anti-manlria (per 1,000 Inhabitants)                 0.05       0.08    0.08          0.04
Bco                                                  0.26       0.24    0.31          0.27
Source: OCEI - Anuario Ertadisttco de Venezuela, various y e.
MON - Anuareo de Epidemiologic y Estadistica Vital, various years.
MON - Memori y Cuotc, various years.



- 52 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 12
V. Social Expenditure and Economic Adjustment
5.01     The effects of the 1989 economic adjustment on social expenditure
were aggravated by the perception that delivery of social services had
reached a maximum level of inefficiency and quality deterioration. In the
new orientation of economic policy, direct subsidies are preferred to
indirect subsidies as an income redistribution device. Social expenditure
had been for the last thirty years an apparatus directed to income
redistribution, both in terms of employment generation in the public
sector, and in terms of massive delivery of social services free of charge,
without precise targeting of the beneficiaries.
5.02     With both theoretical and practical considerations pushing toward
the establishment of a direct subsidies-based system, the GOV has
established a new set of more precisely targeted direct subsidies, to
accompany the elimination of the old system of indirect subsidies. These
include cash subsidies to the parents of the poorest elementary school
students, delivered through new organizational channels, community day care
centers in marginal areas, and nutrition and health interventions for the
most vulnerable groups.
5.03     The Government has ihcreased the share of social expenditure in
the total Central Government budget, from 25.1 percent in 1988 to
30.5 percent in 1990.4 However, the allocation of resources between the
social system (the HOE, MOH, and related Autonomous Institutions), and the
direct subsidies remains an issue. The "Plan de Enfrentamiento de la
Pobreza' is an attempt to conceptualize the problem, trying to identify
which of the old programs contribute directly and efficiently to the needs
of the poor, and which institutions should best administer the direct
subsidies. An important function of the Plan is to evaluate the
consistency of budget allocations with the Government's new social program.
5.04     The activities grouped in the 'Plan de Enfrentamiento de la
Pobreza' increase their share in total social expenditure from 13 percent
in 1988 to 22 percent in 1990. They range from existing, but previously
under-funded, programs in MOE and MOH, with a significant expansion in
'Hogares de Cuidado Diarion (a publicly funded day-care program for infants
and toddlers in marginal urban areas), as well completely new direct
subsidies as the Becas Alimentarias and Utiles Escolares programs. These
new direct subsidy programs are generally attached to the organizational
structure of one or other of the existing Ministries. The Becas
Alimentarias and Utiles Escolares programs are the biggest of the new
direct subsidies (for an estimated amount of Bs 13 million), and are
attached to the HOE.
4/ This section draws heavily on Garcia, H. 'E1 presupuesto de 1990 y la
estrategia para el enfrentamiento de la pobreza', a report prepared for
the Ministerio de la Familia, Nov. 1989.



-53 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 12
VI. Public Sector Investment Program for the Social Sectors
6.01     The Eighth National Development Plan earmarks Bs. 202 billion for
investments in social services. The Plan*s priorities in this area are to
improve the coverage and the quality of social services such as primary
health, basic education, drinking water and sanitation, and to increase the
stock of housing and serviced lots. The Plan document focuses on the
physical infrastructural requirements derived from service coverage targets
without any analysis of the individual agencies' institutional capacity to
undertake the envisaged sectoral investment programs or of the subsequent
recurrent cost implications of the capital investments proposed for the
period.
Tablo 9: PRIORITY SOCIAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMRAM
(Be. Mlllion, 1989 Peices)
Proors                               Proposed Amounts
8e million    s
Pre-school Educatton                 20,000   (9.9)
Basic Education                      14,400   (7.1)
DiversIfIod EducatIon                 6,460   (4.1)
Htgher Education                     6,000   (2.6)
Rural and Outpatient Centers          8,600   (4.2)
Hospitals                            10,000   (6.0)
Urban Water Supply                   13,900   (809)
Urban Sewerage System                12,700   (6.3)
Neighborhood Improvemnt               8,000   (4.0)
Housing                              88,600   (42.6)
Day-care Centers                     2,000   (1.0)
Other                                11,600    (5.8)
Totel                               202,150  (100.0)
Source: CORMIPLAN, VIII Plan do Is Nacion, 199O
Education
6.02     As part of its policy to focus social spending specifically on
poverty-oriented programs, the Government has allocated 222 of the 1990
Central Government Budget to those activities included in its Poverty
Alleviation Plan. They range from the existing but previously under-funded
*Rogares de Cuidado Diariol (a publicly funded day-care program for infants
and toddlers in poor urban neighborhoods) to completely new initiatives
such as the 'Becas Alimentarias' and 'Utiles Escolares", programs of direct
subsidies which are to be managed by the Ministry of Education. These two
programs together are estimated to cost the Ministry Bs. 13,000 million, or



- 54 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 12
19Z of its total budgetary allocations in 1990.  To offset the cost of
these new initiatives, the 0 & M allocations to the Ministry of Education's
ongoing programs were reduced in real terms by some 102 between 1989 and
1990. As important as the new emphasis on poverty alleviation programs is,
the Government will need to ensure that adequate funds are allocated to
permit smooth operation of the country's public educational services.
Education is an important public good and an effective vehicle for income
distribution over the longer term.
6.03     With reference to the Eighth Plan and CORDIPLAN's proposals for
educational investments for 1990-1993, the investment program consists
essentially of a list of ideas on educational infrastructure projects. The
list was prepared on the basis of infrastructure requirements projected by
CORDIPLAN, assuming specific service-population coverage ratios. It is
extremely difficult to evaluate these ideas because no concrete information
was available on the geographical distribution of these project ideas, the
characteristics of the population to be served and the effective demand for
educational services in any given location. The Plan only gives aggregate
cost figures with no data on the cost components or on the phasing of
individual works. More importantly, the Plan document does not include any
analysis of the recurrent expenditure implications of these infrastru.-tural
investments. More work is needed to transform this list of ideas into
concrete, financiable projects which could be individually assessed against
overall sectoral priorities and included into the annual budgets of the
Ministry of Education, MINDUR and their affiliated agencies. In all this,
an important pre-requisite is coherent sectoral planning. The Government
should concentrate resources on strengthening the planning and budgeting
functions at the Ministry of Education, to introduce more technical
criteria in project evaluation.
Health
6.04     During the 1990-1993 period, CORDIPLAN proposes investing some Bes.
8.5 billion in the construction and equipping of health centers, and
another Bs. 10 billion for the construction and/or rehabilitation of
hospitals. There is no discussion in the Eighth Plan document on the
reportedly poor conditions of the existing health infrastructure and the
potential cost of upgrading these facilities to an acceptable standard for
operation. Nor is there an analysis of the recurrent expenditure
implications of operating the existing and new health infrastructure at
full capacity. As in the case of education discussed above, it is
difficult to assess these proposals. The health sector investment program
for 1990-1993 recommended by CORDIPLAN is no more than a listing of project
ideas without a clear definition of regional coverage or beneficiaries and
without any evaluation of the likely demand Zor the services to be
delivered.
6.05     The Government needs to make the existing public health delivery
system function more efficiently. This would entail (a) integrating the
existing health subsystems under a single National Health System as
provided by law; (b) remedying the current regional disparities in coverage
and quality of health services by strengthening the sectoral policy
formulation and services standardization functions of the MOH; (c)
increasing budgetary allocations for operations and maintenance, and away
from personnel; and (d) shifting resources from the hospital-based tertiary
care to the health center-based primary care.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: VENEZUELA: PERCENTAGE OF FAMILIES LIVING IN POVERTY
CONDITIONS BY REGION
1982-1989
1982                              1989
in Extreme      2 in Critical   2 in Extreme   Z in Critical
Region              Poverty          Poverty         Poverty         Poverty
Caracas                 2              10                7             22
Rast of Capital         3              19               18             33
Central                 7              21               19             32
West Central           15              29               28             36
Zulia                  9               24               36             40
Andes                  23              32               27             30
South                   -               -               42             16
Northeast              18              30               35             36
Guayana                 4              18               13 (1987)      30 (1987)
Venezuela              10              22               2;.3           31.4
Sources  B. Garcia and J. Newman, *Pobreza en Venezuela", September 1988;
OCEI Household Survey 1989.
Note:    A family is defined to be in *extreme poverty' if their income falls
below the level required to purchase a minimum basket of food items.
Critical poverty corresponds to a family income above that needed to
purchase the minimum food basket, but less than twice the required
amount.



VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Table 2: VENEZUELA: REGIONAL POVERTY INDICATORS
S of Mom"    W of Hems
Earning        with                    X of HaomS
Unemploymont  88 so/r por a people/   Illiteracy         with         General     Infant
Rate        capita         room         Rate         Runing       Mortlity   Mortality
Relon               1986          198           1981      (Ag  10+)        Water        Rate          Rate
Diatrito Federal               5.9           4.8         16.8          5.4          60.0          4.6          21.4
mieandb                        5.6           9.4         16.9          8.4          70.4          4.5          31.7
Aragua                         8.3          165.         17.2          9.7          64.1          4.6          31.2
Nuevo Esperta                  7.2           19.1        16.0         14.7          69.5          4.6          24.8
Carabobo                       8.7          14.8         16.8         10.0          61.0          5.0          39.?
Bolivar                       10.7          14.6         21.2         11.4          49.S          4.8          81.9
Tachlre                        6.2          37.6         22.4         16.9          72.5          6.9          39.2
Anzoategul                    11.4          19.2         22.5         14.6          48.5          4.6          31.5                     U
tul a                          8.6          20.6         26.2         18.8          50.8          6.5          37.6                     0'
T. Amazonas                    9.1          34.4         18.5         27.2          99.0          4.0          67.0
Merid                          4.9          89.0         21.7         20.1          69.0          6.1          40.2
Lars                           7.0          29.8         25.8         18.8          64.4          6.7          43.6
Falcon                         9.8          26.9         24.9         17.7          48.5          6.4          32.0
Monaga.                       11.2          28.6         28.4         1,.9          61.3          6.0          37.6
Sucre                         10.1          86.6         26.2         28.1          62.9          4.9          29.7
Yaratuy                        9.2          32.8         28.0         21.4         65.2           6.7          42.8
T. D. Asacuro                 18.3          34.4         21.8         24.4          99.0          6.7          42.0
Apur.                          9.4          44.4         88.1         25.8          84.7          4.6          22.6
Guarico                        9.8          29.8         27.0         20.9          49.8          6.9         44.s
Cojedes                       10.1          83.9         26.7         27.5          48.6          6.6          29.5
Trujillo                       6.2          42.1         80.8         26.7          61.0          7.0         50.2
Portuguese                     7.7          88.0         29.0         23.4          47.9          6.7         56.8
BearIa                         8.7          42.7         80.8         23.4          47.6          6.2          50.4
Sourcet Miniotonie de Ia Familia.
Note: All data are for 1981 with the exception of those on unemployment and incom, which are for 1986.



- 57 -
AME 4
Page 1 of 7
VENEul
SOCIAL DEVELOPENT_ PROJECT
Description of aev Targeted Social Programs Expanded
or Established since 1989
A. PRESCHOOL EXPANSION
General description:
Expansion of preschool education coverage using formal and non-formal
schools. Whereas in formal preschools, teachers are only required to
work 5 hrs/day, in non-formal schools, teachers will be required to work
full-time and provide health and nutrition education in addition to the
regular educational curriculum.
Target population:
Children of pre-school age (4-6 years).
Coverage:
96,000 students in formal pre-schools; 16,000 in non-formal pre-schools
throughout the country.
Potential pooulation:
Of 1,700,000 children in preschool age, less than a third currently
attend preschool.
Targetin: criteria:
Limited. Covers students from low-income families living in poor areas
identified by local (sate and municipal) education authorities.
Decentralization:
Limited. A portion of state education budgets, teachers and supervision
will be utilized for the formal preschools. The non-formal pre-school
component will be implemented by local level NGOs and community
organizations.



- 58 -
AE[L4
Page 2 of 7
Non-government involvement/Distribution mechanism:
Limited. NGOs will administer the non-formal portion of the preschool
expansion, although the Ministry of Education will continue to supervise
the program and pay the teachers.
Sources of funds:
Central and state budgets, international resources.
Implementation history:
The program has just been designed; implementation is expected to begin
in 1991.
B. NUTRITIONAL GBANT (Beca Alimentaria)
General descriDtion 1
A direct cash transfer of Bs. 500 per month/per child, for up to three
school-age children, to the mothers of needy school children.   The
ultimate objective of this direct transfer is to raise the income level
of poor families in order to improve the nutrition level of the
students, and to increase school attendance.
Targ2t 2oDulation:
Families with children in the first six grades of primary school in poor
urban and rural areas.
Cover'ag2:
In Kay 1990, the total number of beneficiaries was 1.61 million
students. By end 1990, the program is expected to reach 1.72 million
students on a monthly basis.
Potential 2oulation:
All schoolchildren in grades one to six from low-income families.
1      Due to delays in the design of the program, the first three
payments of Beca Alimentaria were used to create a program (4tiles
escolares) to provide school uniforms to children of low income
families.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
Targeting criteria:
Partial. Low-income areas were identified based on poverty maps (UNDP
Mapa de Pobreza, and FUNDACREDESA Map). These maps, however, only
provide disaggregated information up to the municipal level, thereby
excluding poverty identification at the barrio level. Specific schools
(public and private) were selected according to information obtained
from District Education Administrators and Supervisors (the "expert
criteria" approach). Adjustments are underway to correct for
mistargeting.
Decentralization:
Very limited. The program is administered from the Ministry of
Education at the central level. Although ministry representatives at
the state level are involved in the process to redress problems of
mistargeting, no local government agency has taken part in the design,
supervision or delivery of the grant. However, representatives from the
educational community (comprised of school administrators, teachers,
parents and students) form a local commission to supervise the process
at the local level.
Non-government involvement/Distribution mechanism:
Yes. 37 private banks, with 794 branches, deliver the grant every two
months. The program is organized by the Ministry of Education with
central budget resources. The local commission to supervise the grants
(see above) draws members from the community.
Sources of funds:
Central government.
Implementation historv:
Program started in November 1989, with initial financing until July
1990. The Government recently extended financing to cover the 1990/91
school year. The original concept was to establish the program on a
temporary basis, gradually phasing it out, perhaps in favor of a school
feeding program. Studies will be undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of
the current program and to explore other longer-term alternatives.
C. MATERNAL-CHILD HEALTH PROGRAM (Programa Ampliado Materno-Infantil, PAM1)
General descrigtion:
Provision of medical and nutrition services to pregnant and nursing
women, and children under the age of six living in poor urban and rural
areas. The objective is to provide a nutritional supplement free of
charge to the target population in order to attract the most vulnerable
groups to health posts for medical care and to eventually improve their



- 60 -
ANEX 4
Page 4 of 7
nutrition status. For example, children up to six years old with
malnutrition are provided three kg milk/month while children without
nutrition problems are provided two kg milk/month. Pregnant and
lactating women receive two kg milk/month, while those under risk
receive three kg milk/month. Each delivery of milk must be accompanied
by a medical check-up.
Target poRulation:
Pregnant and nursing women, and children under six years of age.
Coverage:
In 1988, about 25X of pregnant women received prenatal care and only 5S
received post-natal care in public health centers. No more than 16X of
infants under two years old and 10 of pre-school children from two to
six years old received health care in public health centers that same
year. By 1994, the PANI program is expected to assist in expanding
coverage to 50X of pregnant (420,000) and post-natal women (360,000),
501 of infants under two years old (640,000), and 30% of pre-school
children (916,000). Expansion of coverage will be exclusively for low-
income groups. PAKI has been successfully implemented in ten health
centers in the state of Trujillo, where coverage has already increased
five-fold in certain rural areas.
Potential po_ulation:
All pregnant and lactating women and children under six years of age
living in poor areas.
Targeting criteria:
Effective. Population covered by health centers located in poor urban
and in rural areas.
Decentralization:
Limited. At this stage decentralization is limited because of the need
to maintain control over the start-up phase of the program. It is
anticipated, however, that some administrative responsibilities of the
program will be transfered to local level PAMI officials. Procurement
of milk is currently carried out at the central level, but there are
proposals for decentralizing the purchase of food to local level
distribution companies in addition to their distribution
responsibilities.
Non-government involvement/Distribution mechanisms:
Limited. Services are provided by the Ministry of Health through local
health posts and the PAMI Foundation (an autonomous institution under



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
the purview of the Ministry of Health). Although the PAMI Foundation
currently procures the milk for the program, private distribution
companies are responsible for distribution and supervision of powdered
milk stocks (and eventually other foodstuffs).
Sources of funds:
Central budget, international donor agencies.
Implementation historv:
Program started with ten health centers as a pilot project in Trujillo
in december 1989. it is in the process of expansion and is expected to
reach 15 states by end 1990, and all 23 states by December 31, 1991.
D. COMMUNITY DAY CARE CENTERS (Hogares de Cuidado Diario, HCD)
General descriRtion:
A home-based child care program which attempts to provide for nutrition,
health and childhood development needs for poor children, as well as to
promote community education and development. Until recently, there has
been only one type of HCD -- approximately eight children per day-care
center attended for a 12-hour period by one community mother in her
home.  The GOV provides a loan to equip the homes for day-care and a
monthly stipend to the day-care provider (which is supplemzented by fees
paid by parents of the children).
In the context of the GOV Poverty Alleviation Plan, three additional
models have been proposed for implementation in the future: (a) part-
time HCDs (four hour shifts); (b) multi-HCDs, in which three community
mothers provide care for 30 c&ildren in a specially adapted community
center, and (c) natural HCDs, tuensing on the poorest of families in
which mothers do not (or cannot) work. In this program the biological
mother receives food for up to three children.
Target Dopulation:
Children from three months old to six years old, from poor to lower
middle-class neighborhoods.



- 62 -
ANNEX__4
Page 6 of 7
Coyrerag2
By the end of 1990, it is expected that approximately 11,400 HCDs will
be caring for 100,000 children.  In four years, this program is expected
to reach 462,000 low-income children. It should be noted, however, that
in Nay 1990 there were only 3,740 HCDs attending 22,440 children. 2,000
centers were opened in the last quarter of 1989, and are managed by a
private non-profit foundation (Fundacifn del Niflo) which receives
funding for administering the program through the Ministry of the
Family.
Potential nonulation:
About 1.3 million children could potentially benefit from this type of
program, of which some 600,000 live under very poor conditions.
Targeting criteria:
Limited. Poor neighborhoods as determined by officials of the Ministry
of Family or the Fundaci6n del Nifo. However, because the day-care
homes are required to meet minimum standards (eg. cement floor, running
water, sufficient physical space, etc.) many HCD's are not in the
poorest neighborhoods. Until very recently, attendance to HCD's was
limited to children from families with working mothers, thus excluding
poor children from non-working mothers.
Decentralizatin:
For the portion of HCD's under Fundaci6n del Nifto, there is considerable
decentralization. In this context the wife of the Governor of each
state is the head of the Board of Trustees at the state level. For the
remaining HCD's, it remains unclear which NGOs and community
organizations will be utilized. At present the Ministry of the Family
is the only institution exploring these alternative implementation
mechanisms.
Non-government involvement/Distribution mechanism:
The most important implementing agency is the Fundaci6n del Nifuo, to
which direct implementation of the program was transferred from the
Ninistry of the Family in 1989. However, for the expansion of the
program, it is estimated that the Fundaci6n will only have the capacity
to administer 50X of the program. Conseq"ently, it is expected that
other NGOs will be incorporated into the program.



- 63 -
Page 7 of
Souces Of funds:
Essentially central funds, with some private participation. Of the
average cost/child (Bs. 1,515/month), Bs. 300 are paid by the natural
mother directly to the "community mother".
Implemettation history:
Hogares de Cuidado Diario were initiated in October, 1974, implemented
by the Fundaci6n del Nito.



-64 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL SECTORS ACTION PROGRAM
Caracas,  1 9 OCT 1990
Mr. S. Shahid Husain
Vice-President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
World Bank
Dear Mr. Husain,
SUBJECT: Venezuela - Social Sectors Action Program
1.          The Social Development Project to be financed in part by the World
Bank is designed to assist the Government in redirecting its social sector
expenditures toward well-targeted and efficient programs, and in financing high
priority activities. The project aims to: mitigate the potential adverse impact
of the adjustment program, while improving health, nutrition, and education
services for a large and poor segment of the population, especially pregnant and
lactating women and children under six years of age; replace indirect subsidies
with targeted social programs, while improving their efficiency and rationalizing
their distribution; and promote institutional development by improving the
planning and management capacity in the Ministries of Health and Education, as
well as the capacity to target, develop and monitor social programs in the
Ministry of the Family. These actions will be carried out within the framework
of the Government's broad social policies and programs over the next five years
(Social Sectors Action Program - SSAP), which are described below and in the
accompanying matrix.
2.          The project presents an opportunity for continued policy dialogue
with the World Bank and promotes internal coordination among the Ministries of
the Family, Health, and Education. Progress in the execution of the policies
outlined in the SSAP, and in project implementation, will be discussed with the
Bank during joint annual reviews of the project; and the SSAP will be modified,
if necessary, in a manner agreed with the Bank.
3.          The Ministry of the Family is responsible for coordinating public
social programs within this project among the executing agencies, such as the
Ministries of Health and Education and the Fundaci6n del Nifo, among others. The
social sectors strategy aims to improve efficiency in the use of scarce resources
by concentrating public resources in direct assistance programs targeted to the
most vulnerable groups and by improving the efficiency of government institutions
and their actions and interventions in the social sectors.
4.          The Government's primary health care strategy and health services
network will be strengthened, by increasing health care coverage and nutritional
interventions among the poorest segments of the population.



- 65 -                                 5
Page 2 of 6
5.          The Government is concerned about the low coverage of pre-school
education, especially for the poorest groups. In consequence, public funding will
only be used for expanding pre-school coverage in the poorest rural and urban
areas. Community participation will be encouraged for school construction and
repairs, and non-governmental organizations will be encouraged to expand their
participation, especially in non-conventional pre-school modes.
6.          The Government recognizes the need to promote and strengthen the
objectives of the Social Development Project through a comprehensive
commurications program. We will thus develop an information, education, and
communications strategy and plan which will improve awareness and knowledge of
sectoral staff, communities, and the general public, through community education
and participation programs and mass media campaigns.
7.          The Government will monitor the impact of its social programs and of
changes in social indicators in accordance with the inter-ministerial agreement
signed by the Ministries of the Family, Health, and Education and OCEI, on March
19, 1990.
8.          In addition,  the Government will undertake the following social
programs and financial and management policies during the project implementation
period:
Social Programs
(a)   Nutritional Grant (Beca Alimentaria). The grant consists of a direct
transfer of Bs 500 per month to the mothers of needy school
children, up to the sixth grade of primary school. Participating
schools were identified through the national poverty map as serving
marginal (urban or rural) areas. The program was initiated in
November 1989, and the MOE is at present providing grants to about
1.7 million children. An evaluation of the program is underway, but
preliminary findings indicate that the program has been well
targeted to the poorest areas of the country and has contributed to
increased school attendance. This evaluation, which includes the
targeting and effectiveness of the program, the amounts of the
grants, and a comparison of its effectiveness to that of other
education interventions, will be completed by August 31, 1991. The
results of the evaluation will be discussed with the Bank by
September 30, 1991, and agreed actions will begin to be implemented
by October 31, 1991. The program will continue to be implemented for
at least an additional year (to cover the 1990/91 school year);



- 66-                             ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
(b)   Maternal-Child Health Care (Salud Materno-XnfantilV.  The program
aims at expanded coverage and improved health care services for the
most vulnerable groups, particularly women and children. Services
will be improved by following the prLmary health care strategy,
which will be managed by the Directorate General-Health Sector
(MOH), with the support of the Permanent Primary Health Care
Commission. The nutritional component of the program was initiated
in December 1989, with UNICEF assistance, covering ten health
centers  in  the state of Trujillo.   The PAMI Foundation,  an
autonomous unit attached to the Ministry of Health, established in
March 1990, will contract for food procurement and distribution.
The Government plans to gradually expand coverage throughout the
national territory, starting with 15 states before March 31, 1991;
and reaching the 23 states before December 31, 1991;
(c)   School Feeding Protram (Programa de Alimentaci6n Escolar).   The
Ministry of Education is preparing a proposal for a school feedlng
program for needy primary s_hool students, which will carefully
evaluate the viability of consolidating existing programs and the
cost-effectiveness and feasibility of supporting a school feeding
strategy. The proposal will be completed and sent to the Bank by
June 30, 1991; and will be discussed with the Bank by August 31,
1991. If viable, agreed actions will begin to be implemented during
the 1991-92 school year;
(d)  Community Dav-Care Centers (Hogares de Cuidado Diario). This program
combines the goals of supplemental feeding, day-care for poor
children, and community education and development. It also gives
poor women additional opportunities for income-generating activities
by guaranteeing adequate low-cost day care for their children during
working hours. Community mothers, in their own homes, provide day
care for six to eight children up to six years of age. The
Government provides a loan to equip the homes for day care, donates
toys and other necessary materials, and provides a monthly stipend
to the day-care provider. This is supplemented by fees paid by
parents of the children who are being cared for in the center.
Direct implementation of the program is being transferred to the
Fundacion del Nifto and other non-governmental organizations; and
2,000 centers were opened during the last quar:er of 1989. The
Government will continue to provide adequate budget and priority to
the program, and will open centers according to an agreed timetable.
The target for 1990 is 7,700 new centers; and 10,800 for 1991. An
evaluation of the program will be completed by the Ministry of the
Family by August 31, 1991; the evaluation will be discussed with the
Bank by September 30, 1991; and agreed actions will begin to be
implemented by October 31, 1991.



-67-                           ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
Financil and e-egent Policies
(e)   The primary health care strategy will be strengtheted by proposing
an increase in the relative budgetary share of the first two levels
of health care delivery, measured in accordance with a methodology
agreed with the Bank. The Minister of Health will propose to the
appropriate budgetary authorities that this share out of the
Ministry of Health budget be increased from 33 percent in 1990. to
36 perceut in 1991, and to 40 percent in 1992;
(f)   In order to establish adequate implementation arrangements for
social programs, the Ministry of the Family is being reorganized
into the Ministry of Social Development; and
(g)   Studies  to  enhance  planning and management  capacity  at the
Ministries of Education, Health and the Family will be prepared and
completed by each mLnLstry, with the financial and tecbnical support
of the Vorld Bank, by March 31, 1992; discussions with the Bank on
the findings and recommendations of the studies will be completed by
June 30, 1992, and agreed actLons will begin to be implemented by
August 31, 1992.
Sincerely,
Dra. Karisela Padr6n Qyero    Dr. Manuel Adrianza           Gustavo Roosen
Ministra de la Familia        Kinistro de Sanidad       inistro di Educacion
v Asistencia Social
ATTACH:S



-68                                             _
Page 5 of 6
SOCIAL aECTORS ACTI  P     to
OBJECTIVES/ERomsS                  RECENT ACTIONS              ACT 11  TO SE ?AX
A.                              Eaoesat ECK=  itelon of cmitment to
agreea ts undr the SAL.
1.    titionatl Grants          POM  has gIven grants to about  Evaluate targtitng.           Evatuation will be coapteted
1.7 mllion chiltdren,           effectfvisa, "   murt,  by AUgut 31, 1991;
contributfng to Incressd        an  entf fir. sptnatfon  discussion of eatuatIon to
schoot attendance. Ceod         of the progrm for another  be capltted by September 30,
targetifng to poow ar.          yAW.                          1991; agreed ctions to begin
by October _1, 1991.
Program extended to cover at
least the 1990/91 school yar.
2. Maternat-Child teotth Care   Pilot program with 10 health   Cradualty e2pand coverage    To 1S states before March 31,
eonters operating successfutly  throaughout th  notional      1991; and to 23 states before
In Trujillo since December      territory.                   December 31, 1991.
199. Legal requirienets for
PAYI Foundatson finalitzed
March 1990.
3. Schoot feedine Praert        Consultant is preparing          Finalitze propsal.           Proposal to be cotpleted by
proposal for school lunch                                    NOE and sant to the Sank by
program for primary school                                    Jue 30, 1991; discussien of
students.                                                    propsal to be eompoleted by
Ausust 31, 1991; setions
agred to take effect during
the 1991/92 sdhool year.
4.                              Direct Implementation has bteen Continw to provide            Target for 1990 Is 7,750 ewS
transferm d to the Fundac1cn    adequate bAdget wn           centers; for 1991, 10,800.
del  ine and other non-         priority to the program.
governmental organiztions;    GPM additifnal centers
2,000 centers wer  opened       aewordinfg to ea  ogreed
durfne the tast quarter of      timetable.
1989.
Condist an evaluation of    Evaluation to be cotploted by
the program.                 MINFAN by Agust 31, 1991;
discussfon of evauataon to
be completed by September 30,
1991; actifas agroed to begin
by October 31, 1991



-69-                                    AIN   5
Page 6 of 6
5. FiNeANIACL POLICIES
1. Streothen orefurCt ealth    The retative share of tho       Further increas the         To reach 36X by Jwa ry 1,
carm                        firt two lteve  of primsy    retative shwa  ct the first 1991, ad MM by Jwary 1,
heatth care delvery out of    two tets of hltoh care   1992.
the MNt  budget was 3  in      delivvy "ervces out of
1990.                           the MN buidgt, easswed in
accordance with agreed
mthdottogy.
C. q!HAGEMt
1. As1lo  rtetAt               Nutritfon speciatlista have     Nutritln specialiets wltt  By Narch 31, 1991.
reonsbibfitv for            been appointed In eight states be a*stgned to cover 23
nutritionat service at      by the MN, to be responsibte  states; and al states wttl
the state tlvel.            for the supervisfon of          have nutrionists
nrutrtionat poticies sd         responsibte for abutotery
action.                         heatth centers.
2. Establish edeouete          FOwVIS and the PANt 8nd         Coptlte, the conversfan of  Conctinufng process.
ItoeU ntsAlon               PREUSCXlAR Fourdations were    the Ninistry of the Famity
arrarcmernts fr sfcialt     created to str3eamin,           to Ministry of Sociat
rPiects.                    operation of project.           Oevetopment ond establish a
Ministry of the Failty Is       unit to deseIn, ptan anrd
being reorganfied Into a       mnitor socist progrms.
Ministry of Sotal
Deveopent.
3. Pravide incentive msures  itural internship provided for  The Goverroent will conduct  MN study by March 31. 1992;
to attract end retain       nw  doctors. University         a study to design an action discussofns to be coapleted
oustif ld staff for the     curriculum is being od1fled   plan to attroct and retain  by Jue 30, 1992; agreed
erimrv heelth care          to hightlght the priemry        qultlfied staff for th       actlons to begin by AuSut
strateov.                   heatth care strategy.           first two levets of heatth  31, 1992
car serice.
4. Enhance Dtolane and
management cgofcitv at the   Proposats are being pr pared   Firnlize studies.           Studies to be compteted by
Ministrfes of Education     with the betp of consuttants.                                each minfstry by March 31.
Nes1th and tht oulfv.                                                                   1992: discusslons en the
finding  ad recummundations
of the studies to be
cawpleted by Jun 30, 1992;
ogreed octios to begin by
Abqat 31, 12.
Oct. 10, 1990



VENEZUEA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMN  PROJECT
Bs
ProJect Copoanmts by Year
Total
..... ....... ..................................
1990     1991     1992     1993    1994      1995    Be    URE
A. PRIlARY HEALTN CARE
1. MCI AND NUTRITION              434.2   1185.4  1767.0  1880.3  1274.3  1069.9  7611.2   152.2
2. PRIMRY  ELTH CARE               12.5   447.8   452.2    44.8         18.8    18.8  1398.2    28.0
3. COaIU TY PARTICIPATION          10.0    37.7      S1.2      S6.3    54.3    53.9   263.3         5.3
...&       ......................... .......................... 
Sib-total                           456.7  1671.0  2270.4  2384.4  1347.S  1142.6  9272.7    185.5
B. PRE-SCHOL DEVELOPNT
1. FORMAL                           0.0   254.4   300.2    406.0   410.1   410.1   1780.8    35.6
2. INFO"ML                         16.S    42.8      62.0      70.2    70.6    70.6   332.8         6.7
3. PRESCHOOL DEV. F _M     T        0.9      2.6      2.5       2.5      2.5      2.5     13.5      0.3
...................................................................                                 s
Sub-total                            17.4   299.8   364.7   478.8   483.2   483.2  2127.1    42.5 S
C. INFORMATION, EKCE  COM             0.0   186.2    111.2    111.2   111.2   111.2   631.1    12.6
0. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNT            S.8     41.0    57.5       28.6    28.2    28.1   189.3         3.8
..........................................................................
Total SASELINE COSTS                480.0  2198.0  2803.9  3003.1  1970.1  1765.1  12220.2   244.4
P"yscat Contingencies            24.0   109.9   140.2    150.2    98.5    88.3   611.0    12.2
Price Continencies                67.9    m.9   1571.9   2183.1   1822.1   1973.4  8398.3    64.3
.........................................................................
Total PROJECT COStS                 571.8   308.9  4516.0  5338.3  3890.7  3826.8  21229.5   320.9
Taxes                              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.00     0.0      0.00
FoNig{n Exwe                     133.4   1341.6  1607.a  1649.8   886.1   885.1   603.8    99.8
.........................................................................................................
Valwes Sutad b  1010000.0 10/24/1990  12s52
II u
SbN



VENEZIELA
SOCIAL OEWELOPItNT PROJECT
Projects Cacponenta bY Year
Totals Inctluding tontingenIes                                        Totals Including Contingenlies
as                                                                     USS
,..................................................................................................    ................................................................
1990     1991      1992     199       1994     199S    Totat          199      1         1        199       1994     1995    Total
A. PRItRY NEALIt  CAR
1. tCN AND NUTRITION               S17.6   1707.5   2901.0   3406.8   2S32.0   2335.6  13400.5            10.0     29.3      45.4     50.7      36.0     31.4    202.0
2. PRIM"RY  EAtLTH CARE             14.9    S89.6    675.6    728.9       36.6      40.2   2085.9          0.3      10.1     10.6      10.9      0.S       O.S     32.9
3. COPMtTT PARTICIPATION            t1.8     52.5      81.1    100.2    106.0    15.S    466.9             0.2       0.9      1.3       1.5      1.5       1.6      6.9
Sub-total                             544.2   2349.6   3657.7   4235.9   2674.6  2491.3  15953.3             10.5      40.S     ST.2      63.1     38.0      33.5    214.6
B. ME-SciOMu  DEVLOPNMEt                                                                                                                                                        "
1. FORMAL                            0.0    364.4    489.1    79.8    808.2    888.0   3279.5              0.0      6.2       7.6     10.9      11.S     12.0      48.2
2. INFORA L                         19.7       1.3    102.4    127.      140.a    154.7    607.4           0.4       1.1      1.6       1.9      2.0       2.1      9.0
3. PRESCMl DEV. MAMIUNT              1.1      3.7       4.0       4.4      4.8       S.3     23.2          0.0      0.1       0.1       O.t      0.1       0.1      0.4
.....   . ...i  ...... ;:.....  ... ... i............:....  ;.....   ......................................................._ .........................................................
Sub-Total                              20.    430.3    S95.5    861.6    953.6   101.0   3910.1               0.4       7.4      9.3      12.8     13.6      14.1     S7.6
C. INFORMATION  EDUCE COIm              0.0    249.S    173.1    189.1    206.4    226.4   1044.S             0.0       4.3      2.7       2.6      2.9       3.0     15.6
0. INSTITUTIONAL   DEVELOPMENT          6.8      56.4     89.7      S1.6     SS.9      61.2    321.6          0.1       1.0      1.4       0.8      0.8       0.6      4.9
................... .............................................................  ......I..........................................................
total PROJECTS COSTS                 S57.8   308S.9   4516.0   5338.3   3890.7   3826.8  21229.S             11.0      52.9     70.6      79.S     55.3      51.5    320.9
maDam  flaUuUaaUauaaaaa_nDa_      ma                          Da UDaU
..............................................................................................................................................
Values Staled by 100000.0 10124/1990  12:52
IND 
0.



VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suwary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                      Totalt Including Contingencles
es                                                                   US$
1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995    Total        1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. FURNITURE                           0.0     24.2     27.1      29.6    32.4      35.6    148.9         0.0       0.4      0.4      0.4      0.5      0.S       2.2
B. CIVIL WORKS                        10.2   227.1    257.4    281.9   303.5    333.2   1413.2             0.2      3.9      4.0      4.2      4.3       4.5     21.1
C. EQUIPMENT                           2.7    m.0    858.8    700.3         5.0      5.5   2349.4         0.1      13.3     13.4     10.4      0.1       0.1     37.4
0. FOO                               488.6   1490.2   2701.1   3335.5   2439.6   2234.1  12689.1          9.4      25.5     42.2     49.7     34.7      30.1    191.6
E. FOREtGN CONSULTANTS                13.8     10.7      6.5      6.3       6.4      7.0     50.6          0.3      0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.8
F. TECM. ASSIST. AND STIES            11.4     52.3     69.2     as.7     97.4    106.9    422.9          0.2      0.9       1.1      1.3      1.4      1.4      6.3
G. OVERSEAS TRAINING                   0.2      0.4      0.4       0.5      0.3      0.1      2.0         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      O.0
N. DOWESTIC TRAINING                  24.6     81.5    108.1    140.6   160.1    175.1    690.0           0.5       1.4      1.7      2.1      2.3      2.4      10.3    .
1. INSTRUCTIONAL NATERIALS             1.1     21.1     24.8     27.2     29.8      32.7    136.6         0.0      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4.     0.4      2.0   tJ
J. CWoKNICATIONS SERVICES              0.0    209.1    127.2    138.8   151.3    165.8   792.2            0.0      3.6       2.0      2.1      2.2      2.2      12.0
Total INWVESTMENT COSTS              552.4   2893.6   4180.6  4746.4  3225.8  ;OS6.0  18694.9            10.6    49.6       65.4     70.7    45.9      41.7    283.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE          17.1    167.3   298.0    550.8   619.8   681.3   2334.3             0.3       2.9      4.7      8.2      8.8      9.2      34.0
B. COXSUXABLE MATERIALS                2.3     25.0     37.4     41.0      45.0     49.5    200.3         0.0       0.4      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.7       3.0
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                 19.4    192.3    335.4    591.9   664.9    730.8  2534.7            0.4       3.3      5.2      8.8      9.5      9.8      37.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                  571.8  3085.9  4516.0  5338.3  3890.7  3826.8  21229.5              11.0     52.9    70.6       79.5     55.3     51.5    320.9
....................................................................................................................................................................
Values Scated by 1000000.0 10/24/1990 12:52
0
A- 



VENEZUEtA
SOCIAL DEVELOPHEWT PROJECT
Somre   Account by Project Coeponent
es
COMMJUIT                        PRESCKOO  INFORMAl  INSTITUT                       Pysical           Price
MCN AND   PIMIARY        T                            L DEV.      ION,       tOAt                    ContingenieIs      Contingenc es
NUTRITIO   HEALTH PARTICIP                             AIRAGENE    EUC,  D.-WLOPN                   .......
Y       CARE       AllOW    FORKAL   INFORMAL        NT      ComSUm       ENT        Total         X     Amount       X   Amount
1. lNVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. FURltITURE                             0.0        0.0        0.0       73.9      10.5        0.2        0.0        0.0      84.7        5.0        4.2    70.9       60.0
B. CIVIL WORKS                           36.7        0.0        0.0     731.1       38.9        0.0        0.0       0.0      806.6        5.0       40.3    70.2      566.3
C. EQUIPMENT                            241.3    1291.4        25.7       0.0        0.0        0.3        0.0      50.8    1609.5         5.0       80.5    41.0      659.4
0. FOOD                                7155.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    7155.6        5.0      357.8    72.3    5175.7
E. fOREIGN CONSULTANTS                   21.6        0.0        0.0       04t        0.0        0.0       12.3        2.5      36.4        5.0        1.8    34.1       12.4
F. TECH. ASSIST. AID STUDIES             41.6      44.3      100.3        0.5        0.0        9.7       20.5      27.1      244.0        S.0       12.2    68.3      166.6
G. OVERSEAS TRAIlING                      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        1.3       1.3        5.0        0.1    42.3        0.6
. DOMESTIC TRAINING                      98.2       61.3       79.5       7.6       20.4        0.0      108.4       4.6      380.1        5.0       19.0    76.5      290.9
1. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS                0.0       0.0        6.7       61.7        7.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       75.9        5.0       3.8    74.9        56.9
J. CSmLWICATIONS SERVICES                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     489.9        0.0      489.9        5.0       24.5    56.7      277.8
Total INESTWMENT COSTS                 7594.9    1397.1      212.2      874.8       77.4       10.2      631.1      86.3   10864.1         5.0      544.2    66.8    7266.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
................... 
A. OPERATION AND MAtITENUACE             14.8        1.1      44.9      834.5      237.1        2.6        0.0      91.4    1226.4         5.0       61.3    85.3    1046.6
S. CONSUJABLE MATERIALS                   1.4        0.0        6.1      71.6       18.2        0.8        0.0       11.6     109.7        5.0        5.5    77.6       85.1
..................................................;............:......................................................................
total RECURRENT COSTS                    16.3        1.1      51.1      906.0      235.4        3.3        0.0     102.9    1336.1         5.0       66.8    84.7    1131.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                   7611.2    1398.2      263.3    1780.8       332.8       13.5     631.1      189.3   12220.2         5.0     611.0    68.7    8398.3
Physical Contingencies               380.6       69.9       13.2       89.0       16.6        0.7      31.6        9.5      611.0
Price Contingencies                 5408.7      617.8      190.5    1409.6       258.0        9.0     381.8      122.9    8398.3         4.8     399.9
,....... ;............;.........;......... ............. ..........i.......... .............................................................
Toral PROJECT COSTS                   13400.5    2085.9      46.9    3279.5        607.4       23.2    104.5       321.6   21229.5         4.8    1010.9    39.6    6398.3
Taxes                                   0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                    2857.4    1761.7       162.5      829.9      111.6       9.4      649.4      121.8    6503.8         4.8     309.7
............................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................. 
Values Staled by 1000000.0 10/24/1990 12:52
flb



- 74 -
ANNEX 7
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Cumulative Progress In %)
Prolect Component              1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Fumiture                          0    16    34    54    76   100
CMI Works                         1    17    35    55    76   100
Equipment                         0    33    70   100   10C,  100
Food                              4    16    37    63    82   100
Foreign Experts                  27    48    61    74    86   100
Local Experts                     3    15    31    51    75   100
Overseas Training                11    32    53    79    95   100
Domestic Training                 4    15    31    51    75   100
Instructional Materials           1    16    34    54    76   100
IEC Services                      0    26    42    60    79   100
Operation and Maintenance         1      7    20    43    70   100
Consumable Materials              1    14    32    53    75   100
Overall                           3    17    38    64    82   100



_ 75 -
ANNEX 8
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Indicators                         1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995
Health Servce Coverage Targets
Pre-Natal Women                207,000   246,000   279,000   317,000   361,000   422,000
Post-Natal Women                80,000   120,000   169,000   226,000   277,000   359,000
Infants (up to 24 months old)  245,000   310,000   376,000   445,000   531,000   641,000
Preschool Children (2-6 years old)   371,000   425,000   532,000   644,000   777,000   916,000
Famiy Planning                  40,000    66,000   101,400   146,900   193,900   251,300
Breastfeeding for 6 months        25%       30%       35%      40%       45%       50%
Cervkal Cancer Screening       180,000   225,000   250,000   285,000   325,000   375,000
Immunization Coverage (for
chridren under three)        70%/     80%/0     85%       85%       90%      90%
IEC
Mass Media Campalgns/year                     2         5         5         5        5
Preschool Development
New Classrooms (formal system)              423       361       361       361
Non-formal Centers Opened                    59        45        45       35
Increased Attendance-Formal               20,500    21,600    21,600    21,600
Increased Attendance-Non-forma             8,580     6,480    6,480     6,480



- 76 -
Page 1 of 2
SOCIAL pEVE_LOPENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1   "The Recent Evolution of Public Expenditure in Education, Health
and Housing in Venezuela; Gustavo NArquez, IESA, Caracas, January
1990.
A.2   "El Presupuesto de 1990 y la Estrategia para el Enfrentamiento de
la Pobreza", Hayd6e Garcia, Caracas, November 1989.
A.3   Informe Social 3:1986. Sistema de Indicadores Sociales para un
Diagn6stico Permanente, CORDIPLAN, Caracas, 1986.
A.4   'El Gasto Publico Social en Venezuela," Haydee Garcia, Caracas,
1988.
A.5  "Plan de Acci6n Social para 1989", CORDIPLAN, 1989.
B. Selected Regorts and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   "Plan de Accion Alimentario Dirigido a la Poblaci6n Vulnerable en
Pobreza Critica", Eduardo Atalah, Eduardo Beltran, MNximo Bosch
and Antonio Infante, 1989.
B.2   "Programa Alimentario Materno Infantil, Informe Trimestral, Plan
Piloto, Distrito Bocon6", March 1990.
B.3   "Programa Centros del Nifto y la Familia, Informe Enero-Diciembre
1987", Universidad Metropolitana y Fundaci6n Bernard van Leer, May
1989.
B.4   'Proyecto Enfrentamiento a la Pobreza, Proprama Materno-Infantil
PAM!K, September 1989.
B.5   'Componente de Informaci6n, Educaci6n y Comunicaci6n, Reporte de
la Consultoria de Evaluaci6n", Mario Bravo, May 1990.
B.6   "Proyecto Fxpansi6n de Cobertura del Nivel de Educaci6n Preescolar
en Venezuela Afho 1991-1994", Ministerio de Educaci6n, Caracas, May
1990.
B.7   "Proyecto de Desarrollo Social - Propuesta de Organizaci6n",
Gobierno de la Rep4blica de Venezuela, June 1990.



- 77 -
Page 2 of 2
B.8   MProy.cto de Desarrollo Social - Principales Ra8gos., tlinsterlo
de la Familia, July 1990.
C. Ps~1L.aa
CA.1   Venezuola: Public Sector Investment Review: Health and
Sducation", Ruben 1M. SuArez, February 1990.
C.2   Social Spending in Venezuela"' Michelle Riboud, 1989.
C.3  ONutrition in Venezuela", Fernando Vio, 1988.



- 78 -
CHR 1
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF NEALTH
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
M4INISTER
MOATRNA OOOOFEPDMO
DIRECTORS
DIRECTORATE
GENERAL
HEALTH SECTOR
PERK4NENT
* v : PRIMARY HEALTH
.          ~~~CARE
;    .   ~COMaISSION
REGION 



- 79 -
CHART 2
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH|
DIRECTORATE GENEftALt
FOUNDATION           BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
ADVISORY
E  GROUP
|EXEC 'TVE
|DIRECTOR    l
*              ~~I ___
ADMINISTR-                          TECHNICAL
TION     |CORDINATION



so -
-80
SOCIAL DBVEWPHN PROT ECT
*ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTU5Z
|   OF '
r~~~o
iiDVISRY        PRESCOIA6R
GROUPFOATION
iGENERALl
X CER I
C OORDnTON            AMN 
INATLON          IPLITATION
i I C



- 81 -
CHART 4
VENEZUELA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF THE FAMILYITECHNICAL COORDINXTION OFFICE
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTER
OF THE
FAMILY
FONVIS                                DIRECTORATE
OF
ADMINISTRATION
l            TECHNICAL
!--- -      COORDINATION
OFFICE
ADMINISTRATION        INFORMATION              HEALTH
AND                EDUCATION
FINANCE            CONMUNICATIONS



.          ~~~~ARU8A
CURACAO           srRA"AOA
/ 04P~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~~~~~                                                                                     tRINIDAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAND
\             lo          $(1RIIJGUVS                                                                                                   T
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U    A   sA  n                              0     ,      )J~#     _        l
_ (wrna  (                 A    rl4,J As 4 F              3~                                                                  A M |      >
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YO
SELECtED ROADS                                             m-.                                                           RtNDA
-1 0.                                                                                        P.D RIER
-  SLATE EUN~).      LARA
VENEZUELA        20 A4                                                                                                                                           K I C A
20~~~~    t~~~00t
20?S  OVLFIFERS ooG UoA                                                                                                                        71NE
ME_ SlATt8UDRF     A                                     Z                    *L
()2Do ,/ meA             0y    F   
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                     " S OO  10   200j JJ   /rA
--                L~~~~~~~ 
,   .5    /  \\                'i-             (                                           .9         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILA,  c*
ottH                                                                                       ILA             Isr
_~~~~~~~~ S ,,                                                                                                                                                    ,i~h- ,,-' -o''i*_    'o  A 44 f A'K; C' 
'0                                                 72" ,,                                                                                                                                -> i _ _ ____  _  . _ _ _ 1. 1_ % - ----  t0
jMt'tR%~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~N
_____                                                                              '-Il~~~~~~~~~~



