Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H110 GUB 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS Global Mitigation Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 5 , 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H110 GUB 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 5 , 2004, between the Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Association has received from the Recipient its National Strategic 
Plan to combat HIV/AIDS (as hereinafter defined) and STIs (as hereinafter defined) (the 
National Strategic Plan) dated June 2002, describing the Recipient’s program of 
objectives, policies and actions designed to prevent and control the spread of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved on 
 
February 7, 2002, the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region 
estimated in the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars; 
(D) 
the Project is part of the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for 
the Africa Region; and 
(E) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
Page  3
-
2
-
1999), with the modifications set forth below and in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Action Plan” means any document describing a set of activities to fight 
against the HIV/AIDS epidemic carried out by a PSOs (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(c) 
“CSOs” means a Civil Society Organization established and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient, including rural or urban communities, grass-root 
organizations, religious and cultural organizations, professional and non-professional 
associations, private enterprises, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and 
community-based associations involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS and which have 
met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this agreement and, as a result, have 
received or are entitled to receive a Subgrant (as hereinafter defined) through a Subgrant 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined), and the term “CSOs” means more than one CSO; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“FCFA” means 
Francs de la Coopération Financière en Afrique,
 the 
currency of the Recipient; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
(i) 
“Medical Waste Management Plan” means the plan approved by the 
Association and adopted by the Recipient, to manage and mitigate the impact of medical 
waste in connection with the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, with the approval of the Association; 
(j) 
“NAC” means the National AIDS Council, the Recipient’s National 
Council for the Fight against HIV/AIDS, located within the Office of the Prime Minister, 
responsible for providing strategic direction and policy leadership, members include a 
broad representation from government, civil society and the private sector, and 
established pursuant to a Decision of the Recipient’s Prime Minister dated March 10, 
2004 (hereinafter “NAC-NAS Decision”); 
(k) 
“NAS” means National AIDS Secretariat, established pursuant to the 
NAC-NAS Decision, to be responsible for the implementation of the National Strategic 
Plan, coordinating the daily operations of the Project including: procurement progress, 
preparation of reports, financial and technical audits, and monitoring and evaluation 
which would expand and strengthen HIV/AIDS activities being carried out by CSOs and 
PSOs; 
(l) 
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS; 
(m) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be adopted 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of  
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, including, 
inter alia
:
policies, financial, administrative, 
procurement and accounting procedures as well as guidelines to be followed in the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of each and all components of the Project and 
progress in the fight against HIV/AIDS, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such terms include any schedule to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(n)  
“Project Performance Indicators” means the indicators of the progress of 
the Project included in the Project Implementation Manual; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(o) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on May 14, 2004 and on behalf of the Recipient on May 18, 
2004; 
(p) 
“PSO” means a Public Sector Organization of the Recipient, including 
ministries, secretariats of state, parastatal companies and public agencies existing and 
operating under the laws of Recipient implementing a comprehensive HIV/AIDS work 
plan, particularly the following Ministries: Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, 
Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Hunting and Livestock, State 
Secretariat of Youth, Culture and Sports, and the term “PSOs” means more than one 
PSO;  
(q) 
“Regional Committees”  or “RCs” means the National AIDS Council’s 
Regional Committees established pursuant to the NAC-NAS Decision,
 
composed of 
regional directorates of ministries, civil society and private sector representatives, 
responsible for reviewing, selecting and monitoring of Subprojects in a determined 
geographical area of the Recipient’s territory;   
(r) 
“Report-Based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option to 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(s)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(t) 
“STIs” means Sexually Transmitted Infections; 
(u) 
“Subgrant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient 
to a CSO or PSO, as the case may be, out of the proceeds of the Grant to finance a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(v) 
“Subgrant Agreement” means an agreement supporting a Subproject 
between a NAS, RCs, and CSOs or PSOs, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and 
(w) 
“Subproject” means a specific Subproject for activities in the fight 
against HIV/AIDS, carried out by a CSO or a PSO, as the case may be, and financed, or 
proposed to be financed, through a Subgrant under the Project. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on February 1 
and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and public health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall furnish to the Association, no later than twelve 
months after the Effective Date, an independent institutional assessment of NAC and 
Page  8
-
7
-
NAS (at the central and regional levels), in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
Page  9
-
8
-
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association no later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
 
(b) 
the NAC-NAS Decision shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of NAC or NAS to 
implement the Project.  
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted: (i) an accounting and financial management 
system for the Project, which shall provide, 
inter alia
,
for the preparation of FMRs; and 
(ii) the Project Implementation Manual; all in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;  
 
(b) 
that each PSOs listed under paragraph 1.02 (e) of this Agreement have 
presented Action Plans for the first year of the Project to fight against HIV/AIDS, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
the Recipient has appointed the independent auditor referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
Page  11
-
10
-
(d) 
the Recipient has recruited the staff for NAS, including the National 
Secretary to be responsible for overall Project management, a financial manager, a 
procurement specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with experience 
and qualifications, and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministério da Econonia e das Finanças  
C.P. 67 
Bissau 
Guinea Bissau 
 
Cable address: 
Facsimile: 
MEF 
245-20 16 26 
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI)  (202) 477 6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
By                    /s/ Henrique Adriano Silva 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By                        /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A
.
General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works 
10,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
(a)  equipment and vehicles 
(b)  drugs, tests and medical 
supplies 
 
450,000 
 
280,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ Services, training 
and audits 
1,890,000 100% 
(4) Operating Costs 
1,460,000 
100% 
(5) Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance  
510,000 
Amount due pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement 
(6) Unallocated 
100,000 
________ 
100% 
 
TOTAL 4,700,000
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a) 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office furniture and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, rental expenses, office maintenance 
costs, utilities, travel cost for Project staff, and reasonable bank charges related to the 
operations of the Special Account, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s 
civil service; and 
(b) 
“training” includes scholarships stipendiums, purchase of training 
materials, rental of training facilities, and travel costs. 
3. 
For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood that the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions of a decision of the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance convened to the Association through letters dated March 14, 2003 
and May 27, 2003, respectively, confirming the exemption of taxes and custom duties 
levied in the territory of the Recipient on works, goods and services for this Project.  In 
the event of any change which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such 
works, goods and services, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) goods costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; (d) services of individual consultants and audits costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (e) training and Operating Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-Based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
Page  15
-
14
-
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the  
six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account 
1. 
The Recipient shall, open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for  
Report-Based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account;  
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-Based 
Disbursements; or 
Page  16
-
15
-
(d) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to publicly disclose at its central and 
regional levels on each Annual HIV/AIDS Day all Project related expenditures.   
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A  
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-Based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of  FCFA 364,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 182,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 940,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals, as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to  
Part
 
B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  The Association shall withdraw each such deposit 
into the Special Account from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Section
 
5.02
of
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
ANNEX B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-Based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in: (i) reducing the spread of 
HIV/AIDS infection in the Recipient’s population; (ii) increase the access to 
STI/HIV/AIDS treatment; (iii) mitigating the health and socio-economic impact of 
HIV/AIDS at the individual, household, and community level; and (iv) building strong 
and sustainable national capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A: 
Community and Civil Society Initiatives 
and Capacity Building  
 
Supporting CSOs at the national, provincial, communal and local level in their 
initiatives against HIV/AIDS, through the preparation and execution of Subprojects, 
detailing, among other things, the measures to be taken by their staff and by their 
members to initiate or strengthen their fight against HIV/AIDS, including: (a) conducting 
information, education and communication activities on the impact of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic and supporting the formal and informal education sectors to carry messages 
about HIV/AIDS and promote behavioral changes by specific targeting groups such as 
women, orphans, and PLWHA; (b) promoting the use of condoms through social 
marketing and distribution of condoms; (c) expanding testing and counseling as well as 
psychological and material support for PLWHA and their families; and (d) investing in 
agricultural and private sector skills training and revenue-generating activities for 
PLWHA and their families; all through the provision of technical advisory, training and  
Subgrants approved in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
Part B: Government Multi-Sector Response 
1. 
Supporting the Recipient’s MOH in its initiatives against HIV/AIDS through 
prevention, control, support for PLWHA by developing and implementing a global 
treatment and a strategy to strengthen the Integrated Health Network, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) increasing the supply of HIV/AIDS related drugs and materials, such as the supply of 
condoms, drugs to treat opportunistic infections, anti-retrovirals for the reduction and 
prevention of mother to child transmission and post exposure prophylaxis; 
 
(b) strengthening clinical laboratory capacity to enable diagnosis and monitoring of HIV 
therapy, including monitoring and diagnosis of opportunistic infections; (c) improving 
measures to enhance bio-security; (d) improving measures to enhance blood safety;  
(e) providing training and anti-retroviral drugs for post-exposure prophylaxis for health 
Page  21
-
20
-
sector workers; (f) improving management of opportunistic infections, focusing on their 
prevention and treatment; and (g) improving management monitoring and evaluation of 
activities supported under this part of the Project and the overall progress of the 
epidemic; all through the provision of technical advisory services and training, the 
acquisition of goods and equipment in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
2. 
Supporting the Recipient’s PSOs in the implementation of their comprehensive 
HIV/AIDS work plans focusing the activities on the internal and external impact of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic on the specific ministry/agency staff to include: (a) training PSOs 
on HIV/AIDS-related activities; (b) conducting information, education and 
communication activities on the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and supporting the 
formal and informal education to promote behavioral changes; (c) promoting the use of 
condoms through social marketing and distribution of condoms; and (d) facilitating 
counseling as well as psychological and material support for PLWHA and their families; 
all through the provision of Subgrants approved in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
Part C: Institutional Development for Program 
Management 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of NAC to establish effective secretariats and 
networks at the national, regional, and district levels and sector focal points in designing, 
implementing, monitoring and evaluating strategic HIV/AIDS control; all through the 
provision of technical advisory services, operating costs, training, small civil works, 
vehicles and equipment in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of NAS to meet the Recipient's fiduciary 
responsibilities with the Association and other sources of funding for the National 
Strategic Plan by establishing national financial management and procurement systems, 
and implementing, coordinating, managing, monitoring and evaluating frameworks for 
the Project, at the regional level, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training, the acquisition of goods, equipment and vehicles, and the execution of works for 
office rehabilitation in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: 
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for non-medical goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $15,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Non-medical goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  23
-
22
-
2. 
International or National Shopping
Non-medical goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines under 
contracts awarded on the basis of: (a) national shopping procedures, if available locally; 
or (b) international shopping procedures, if not available locally. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Proprietary items, such as HIV/AIDS testing reagent may be procured, with the 
Associa
tion’s prior agreement, from a particular manufacturer or from Central de 
Compras de Medicamentos Essenciais – CECOME in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including pharmaceuticals, reagents and medical consumables, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured from the  
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United Nations (IAPSO), the United 
Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Fund for 
Population Activities (UNFPA), and the World Health Organization (WHO), in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Subprojects may, pursuant to paragraph 3.15 of the 
guidelines, be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
defined in the Project Implementation Manual. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part D: 
Review by the Association of Procurement 
Decisions 
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) all contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 and $200,000 respectively or more; (b) all contracts under 
community participation estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and (c) the 
first five contracts for community participation costing less than $50,000 equivalent, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants 
Part A: 
General 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B: 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  25
-
24
-
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: 
Other Procedures for the Selection of 
Consultants  
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D: 
Review by the Association of the 
Selection of Consultants 
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of the consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
terms of reference and the short list for the employment of all consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. General 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Action Plans for the first year of Project implementation, 
and Medical Waste Management Plan, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the Manuals or the Plans without the 
Association’s prior written approval.  
2. 
NAC, NAS and RCs:  
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain NAC with structure and functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual for the purposes of, 
inter alia
,
to provide general oversight of 
Project implementation; 
(b) 
The Recipient shall maintain NAS with structure, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual to carry out the daily facilitation, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and 
coordination of the Project, and to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) preparing regionalized and 
consolidated annual work programs and budgets for the Project; (ii) preparing FMRs in 
accordance with Section 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement; (iii) carrying out monitoring 
and evaluation and report to the Association on the status of Project implementation;  
(iv) provision of technical support; (v) channeling funds and facilitating implementation 
of the Project activities to Subgrant Beneficiaries, and (vi) approving the RC and 
Regional Focal Point Action Plans, Subprojects, Subgrant Agreements as specified in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall maintain RCs with structure, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual to carry out the daily facilitation, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and 
coordination of the Project at the provincial and communal levels, respectively, including 
the approval of the PSOs Action Plans and Subprojects, and the execution of Subgrant 
Agreements with CSOs and PSOs for an amount not to exceed the ceilings specified in 
the Project Implementation Manual. 
(d) 
The Recipient shall cause NAC to furnish, not later than December 31, 
2004, and thereafter by December 31 of each year, to the Association for its review and 
Page  28
-
27
-
approval, proposed detailed 12-month work plans, including training programs and 
proposed budgets in respect of Project activities for the forthcoming year. 
3. 
Provision of Subgrants
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, a 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing under a Subgrant upon approval of NAC, NAS 
or RC, as the case may be.  The selection of the Subprojects shall be based on an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with criteria and guidelines set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and including that the proposed activities are economic and 
technically viable and a CSO or a PSO must be eligible, and, in the case of a CSO, have 
legal capacity to contract under the laws of the Recipient.   
 
(b) 
Subprojects shall be received, reviewed and selected, and approved by 
NAC, NAS or RC, as the case may, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(i) 
a description of the proposed Subproject, with its budget and its 
performance indicators; 
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a Subgrant 
basis pursuant to Subgrant Agreements; 
(iii) 
the obligation to: (A) carry out the Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, 
technical and financial standards taking into account 
environmental and ecological implications and in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; (B) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with simple 
and sound accounting practices defined in the Project 
Implementation Manual, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Subproject; and (C) maintain 
adequate reporting in accordance with the standards specified in 
the Project Implementation Manual; 
(iv) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Subgrant shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and referred to in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; 
Page  29
-
28
-
(v) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites, plants and construction included in the Subproject, 
the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the 
Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request regarding 
the administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
Subproject; and  
(vii) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
CSO or the PSO to use the proceeds of Subgrant for the 
Subproject upon failure by the CSO or PRSO to perform any of 
its obligations under its Subgrant Agreement. 
4. 
Monitoring and Reporting
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Project Performance Indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June and December of each year, semi-annual 
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to Paragraph 4(a) of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by November  of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter act promptly and diligently in order to take, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement such measures as may have been agreed between the Recipient 
and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
5. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 
December 31, 2005, a comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (i) documenting progress 
toward achieving the Project objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
Page  30
-
29
-
implementation; (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
as of the date of the review; and  (iv) an overall evaluation of the Project against the 
agreed Project Performance Indicators as reflected under paragraph 4 a) of this Schedule.   
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall not later than four weeks prior to the midterm review 
referred to in paragraph 5 (a) above, furnish to the Association a midterm report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in the Project implementation. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Recipient shall take 
all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review for the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon.     
 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Recipient” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable (a)  
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”. 
Page  32
-
31
-
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
