                                       The WorldBank
                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                    Report No. 39906-AFR




                 INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                     PROPOSEDUMBRELLA RESTRUCTURING

ANDAMENDMENT OFTHE FINANCINGAGREEMENTSFORTHE PROJECTS

                                            UNDER

         MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PROGRAMFORAFRICA (MAP)



                                          May 29,2007




Country Department
AIDS CampaignTeamfor Africa (AFTHV)
Africa RegionalHumanDevelopment (AFTHD)

This document has arestricted distribution andmaybeusedbyrecipients only inthe
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

ABBREVIATIONS

AAP       Africa Action Plan
ACTafrica AIDS CampaignTeamfor Africa (AFTHV)
AFTHD     RegionalHumanDevelopment
AFTQK     RegionalOperationalQuality andKnowledge Services
AIDS      Acquired ImmunodeficiencySyndrome
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
ART       Antiretroviral Treatment
ARV       Antiretroviral (drug)
ASAP      AIDS Strategy andAction Planning Service
AWARE!    Action for West Africa Region - ReproductiveHealth
BCC       BehavioralChange Communications
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CD        Country Director
CD4       Cluster o f differentiationmolecules
CDC       Centers for Disease Control
CFP       Country FinancingParameters
CISLS     Inter-sectoral Program CoordinationUnit (Niger)
CMS       Cornit6Mixte de Suivi
CNLS      National Committee for the Fight against AIDS
          Committee on Development Effectiveness
cso
CODE
          Civil Society Organization
D C A     Development Credit Agreement
DflD      Department for InternationalDevelopment
DGA       Development Grant Agreement
DHS       Demographic andHousehold Survey
DO/PDO    Development Objectives / ProjectDevelopment Objectives
FMA       Financial Management Agent
GAC       Ghana AIDS Commissions
GAMET     Global AIDS Monitoring and EvaluationTeam (HDNGA)
GARFUND GhanaAIDS ResponseFund
GFATM     Global Fundto fight AIDS, TB and Malaria
GHAP       Global HIV/AIDS Program (HDNGA) o f the World Bank
GRF        Generic Results Framework
GTT        Global Task Team
HDNGA      Global HIV/AIDS Program
HIV       HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus
HNP        Health, Nutrition and Population
IDA        InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IEC        Information, Educationand Communications
IEG/OED    Independent EvaluationGroup (formerly, Operations EvaluationDepartment)
IP         ImplementationProgress
ISR        ImplementationStatus andResults Report
KPI        KeyPerformance Indicators
LEGAF      LegalDepartment Africa Region
LGA        Local Government Authority
LOA        LoanDepartment

M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP         Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Programfor Africa
MDA         Ministries, Departments, District Assemblies
MDG         MillenniumDevelopment Goals
M-SHAP      Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDSProject
M S M       Menwho have Sex with Men
MTEF        Mid-TermExpenditureFramework
MTR         MidTermReview
NAC         NationalAIDS Council or Committee
NAS         NationalAIDS Secretariat
NGO         Non-Governmental Organizations
NSF         National Strategic Framework
OECD        Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PAD         ProjectAppraisal Document
PEPFAR      President's Emergency Planfor AIDS Relief (U.S. Government)
PLWHA       People LivingWithHIV/AIDS
PMTCT       Preventiono f Mother to Child Transfer
PNMLS       Programme National Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le V W S I D A (DRC)
PRSP        PovertyReduction Strategy Paper
PSI         PopulationServices International
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
QSA          Quality of Supervision Assessment
RVP         RegionalVice President
STI          Sexually TransmittedInfections
TACAIDS      Tanzania Commission for AIDS
TAP          Treatment Acceleration Project
TMAP         Tanzania MultisectoralAIDS Project
TST          Technical Support Team
UNAIDS       The Joint UnitedNationsProgramme onHIVIAIDS
             Members: UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, UNDP, UNFPA, UNODE, ILO,
             UNESCO, WHO, andWorld Bank
UNDP         UnitedNations DevelopmentProgramme
UNECA        UnitedNationsEconomic Commission for Africa
UNGASS       UnitedNations General Assembly's Special Session onHIV/AIDS
UNICEF       UnitedNations Children's Fund
UNITAID      UnitedNations InternationalDrugPurchase Facility
USAID        United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
VCT          Voluntary Counseling and Testing
ZAC          Zanzibar AIDS commissions




Vice President:      Obiageli KatrynEzekwesili (Vice President)
Country Director:    Gerard Byam (AFTQK), Yaw Ansu (AFTHD)
Sector Manager:      ElizabethL.Lule (AFTHV)
Task Team Leaders: NadeemMohammad (AFTHV), Norbert Mugwagwa (AFTHD)

Countryteams


  1. Dem. Rep. of Congo
     Country Director:  Pedro Alba (AFCC2)
     Sector Manager:    Laura Frigenti (AFTH3)
     Task Team Leader:  Jean-Pierre Manshande(AFTH3)
  2. Ghana
     Country Director:  Mats Karlsson(AFCW 1)
     Sector Manager:    Eva Jarawan (AFTH2)
     Task Team Leader:  EvelynAwittor (AFTH2)
  3. Guinea, Republic of
     Country Director:  Mats Karlsson(AFCW1)
     Sector Manager:    Eva Jarawan (AFTH2)
     Task Team Leader:   IbrahimMagazi (AF'TH2)
  4. Guinea-Bissau
     Country Director:   Madani Tall (AFCW3)
     Sector Manager:     MaryBarton-Dock (AFTS4)
     Task Team Leader:   DirkN.Prevoo (AFTS4)
  5. Mauritania
     Country Director:   James Bond (AFCW4)
      Sector Manager:    Eva Jarawan (AFTH2)
     Task Team Leader:   Vincent Turbat (AFTH2)
  6. Niner
     Country Director:   MadaniTall (AFCW3)
      Sector Manager:    Eva Jarawan (AFTH2)
     Task Team Leader:   Djibrilla Karamoko (AFTH2)
  7. Senegal
      Country Director:  Madani Tall (AFCW3)
      Sector Manager:    Eva Jarawan (AFTH2)
      Task Team Leader:  Aissatou Diack (AFTH2)
  8. Tanzania
      CountryDirector:   Judy O'COIUIO~    (AFCE1)
      Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka (AFTH1)
      Task Team Leader:  E m a n u e l G.Malangalila(AFTH1)

                           DATA SHEET-UMBRELLA RESTRUCTURING

                                            PROJECT PAPER



                                                    (AFTHV), Norbert Mugwa

Project ID: SeeAnnex 3                              Country Director: GerardByam(AFTQK), Yaw


Borrower:              Democratic Republic o f Congo, Ghana, Republic o f Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
                       Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Tanzania

Responsible agency: SeeAnnex 3


FY                     SeeAnnex 3
Annual
Cumulative

Revisedclosingdate [ifapplicable]:
Indicate ifthe restructuring is:

Board approved         Yes
RVP approved           Yes

Does the restructuredproject require any exceptions to Bank policies?          -Yes        N o
Have these been approved by Bankmanagement?                                    -Yes     II_N o
I s approval for any policy exceptionsought from the Board?                    -Yes 1~No

Revisedproject development objective/outcomes [Ifapplicable]

                                              Seesection V


Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpolicies? Ifso, click here to indicatewhich
one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR]
None
                                                                  SeeAnnex 3


Table of Contents


I.  INTRODUCTION.....................................................................................................           1

I1. BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT ..........................................................................                            2

I11 MULTI-COUNTRYHIV/AIDSPROGRAM(MAP)PORTFOLIO........................
   .                                                                                                                            6

IV. SUMMARYOFPROPOSEDPROJECTAMENDMENTS.....................................                                                     7

V.  PROPOSEDPROJECTRESTRUCTURINGSEEKINGBOARDAPPROVAL.....9

VI ANALYSIS..............................................................................................................       22

VI1 EXPECTEDOUTCOMES......................................................................................                      23

VI11 BENEFITSAND RISKS.........................................................................................                 23

ANNEXES........................................................................................................................ 25

     Annex 1-Issues Paper............................................................................................           26

     Annex 2 -The HIV/AIDSResultsScorecard.........................................................                             35

     Annex 3 - Project Data.............................................................................................        38

     Annex 4 - Ahca RegionHIV/AIDSPortfolio........................................................                             40


                                       I. INTRODUCTION

1.    This Umbrella Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to amend the
Financing Agreements o f HIV/AIDSProjects' (section IV) approved by the Board under Multi-
Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP1and MAP2) in2000 and 2001. The MAPwas designed on
the principle o f learning by doing, o f continuously improving implementation in response to
monitoring and evaluation and applying lessons of experience. This restructuring i s consistent
with this underlying principle. The proposed restructuring takes into account the findings from
MAP interim review (2004), OED/IEG evaluation o f global HIV projects (ZOOS), latest
knowledge on prevalence, changed global financial architecture, as well as QAG supervision
reviews andISRswhich identify major project implementationchallenges.
2.    The proposed restructuringwill contributeto maximizing the effectiveness o f Bank support
to the countries through improved Monitoring and Evaluation capacity, realigned indicators to
national strategies, hnds directed to priority and high impact interventions and better
coordinated institutional arrangements. The proposed restructuring will lead to more effective
and efficient responses to HIV/AIDS prevention, carekreatment and mitigation interventions at
the country level.
3.     The region's progress will be reported through a HIV/AIDS Results Scorecard developed
by the Africa Region in collaboration with the Global HIV/AIDS Program (HDNGA) and
UNAIDS/WHO to facilitate country projects in harmonizing and standardizing HIV/AIDS
indicators incompliance with indicators contained inthe globally agreed UnitedNations General
Assembly Session on HIV/AIDS (UNGASS), Millennium Development Goals (MDG), IDA
indicators, and OECD Paris Declaration on harmonization and minimization o f data
requirements. Consolidating these indicators will: (i)          significantly reduce a country's burden o f
multiplereporting; (ii) amajor achievement towards harmonizing M&Eat the country levelin
                           be
line with the principle o f the "Three Ones2"; and (iii)           provide the Bank with a better tool to
report results on the Region's performance on the epidemic.
4.     The proposed restructuringwill be implemented with immediate effect with the exception
o f the project in the Central African Republic, Mozambique and the Sub-regional Treatment
Acceleration Project, a learning project supporting scaling up o f treatment in Burkina Faso,
Ghana, Mozambique, in partnership with WHO and UNECA. Restructuring o f these projects
will bepresentedto the Board separately.
5.     A background issuespaper on the challenges and lessons learned from HIV/AIDS projects
under MAP in Africa i s attached in Annex 1. The key lessons learned include: (i)HIV
Prevalence as a Project Development Objective (PDO) and performance indicator has proven
unrealistic; (ii) slow implementation i s principally due to inefficient institutional arrangements,
coordination and project design; and (iii)        the need for a stronger and hnctional M&E systems to


1 Dem. Rep. o f Congo, Ghana, Republic o f Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, andTanzania
2 On 25 April 2004, UNAIDS, the United Kingdom and the United States co-hosted a hgh-level meeting at which
key donors reaffirmed their commitment to strengthening national AIDS responses led by the affected countries
themselves. They endorsed the "Three Ones" principles, to achieve the most effective and efficient use o f
resources, and to ensure rapid action and results-based management: (i)One agreed HIV/AIDS Action Framework
that provides the basis for coordinating the work of all partners; (ii)
                                                                     One National AIDS Coordinating Authority,
with a broad-based multisectoralmandate; and (iii) One agreed country-levelMonitoring and Evaluation System.



                                                         1

demonstrate impact, strategic management o f the epidemic and intense supervision due to the
complexity ofthe nationalresponsesto HIV/AIDS.



                        11.       BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT

A. BACKGROUND
6.    HIV/AIDS continues to be a major development challenge in the region, particularly in
southern Afhca, the epicenter o f the epidemic. Among other diseases, HIV is the main cause o f
adult mortality and contributes to significant reversal o f life expectancy gains, erodes
productivity, decimates the workforce, consumes savings and dilutes poverty efforts. Africa has
an estimated 26 million people living with HIV/AIDS, and more than 23 million have died as a
result o f infection. An estimated 5,000 lives are lost per day (2005). Africa accounts for more
than 60% o f the global number of people living with HIV/AIDS. Women represent the majority
o f those infected and young people especially young women are at hgh risk. More than 12
million children have been made orphans by the disease in Afhca. The epidemic diminishes
economic growth by up to 1.5% per annum in the most affected countries3. The impact on
human capital i s devastating. Life expectancy has fallen below 50 years in several countries, for
example, in Zimbabwe the life expectancy at birth for women has reached as low as 34 years
(Source: UNAIDS 2006).
7.    In 1999, the World Bank developed a new strategy for Intenszfjing Action Against
HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development Crisis, making a long term commitment to
combat against HIV/AIDS inAfrica. The aim was to provide urgent support to enable countries
inAfrica to scale up their programs against the devastating epidemic. The strategy called for a
new, flexible way to provide resources quickly, both to governments and civil society, within
sound strategic frameworks. So the Multi-Country HIV/AIDSProgram- the MAP-became the
first program to offer African countries substantial, long-term funding to support HIV programs
o f national scale and coverage. The response was overwhelming, and in short order the M A P
was supportingnearly every low-income country inAfrica with a credible national strategy.
8.    To meet an anticipated growth in demand, the Bank's response was the Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa, designed as a fast, comprehensive, multisectoral, and
renewable instrument to fund both the public and non-public sectors as emergency operations.
The M A P broke ground in several ways: (a) it offered comprehensive support for national
programs, going beyond traditional project support; (b) it was the first major program to support
HIV/AIDS strategic andsystem investmentsat national level, rather thanjust select interventions
(this helpedbuild capacity and eased the way for other donors); (c) it galvanized "demand" by
channeling funds directly to communities and civil society organizations, recognizingthe role o f
social mobilization incombating HIV/AIDS; (d) it was fast. At the time MAP was initiated, the
average Bank project took more than 18 months to prepare. By taking a program approach,
MAP projects could be prepared inroughly half that time; (e) by committing USD equivalent
500 million it raised the hding benchmark for other donors.                 This level and type of


3"HIV/AIDS: the impact on the Social Fabric and theEconomy - TheMacroeconomics of HIV/AIDS', Haaker, M-
InternationalMonetary Fund, 2004.


                                                     2

commitment   -
Fund, PEPFAR, and other multi-billion dollar initiatives; and (9 It assured countries that the
                and the strong demand that followed - help lay the groundwork for the Global

Bankwas committedto long-termsupport for HIV/AIDScontrol insub-Saharan Ahca.


B.REASONSFORUMBRELLARESTRUCTURING
9.   The need for restructuringHIV projects (section IV) emerged from:

     0   Knowledge gained and more scientific evidence on the epidemiology o f the epidemic
         which shows that: (i)  it is not one but different epidemics among countries and within
         countries and it changes over time; and (ii) o f `reduction in HIV/AIDS prevalence'
                                                       use
         as a PDO and outcome indicator for MAP projects i s an inappropriate measure o f
         efforts to respondto the epidemic;
         The findings andrecommendations from an interim review o f MAP projects conducted
         with external partners (2004), and the LEG/OED evaluation o fMAPS in2005; and
         QAG assessments o f supervision and ICR Reviews o f 3 MAPSwhich have shed light
         on implementation challenges          and how to improve the           coordination and
         implementationo fMAPS amongthe development partners and governments.
10. The summary o f key reasons to restructure the projects are presented below (Annex 1
provides detailed background):

       HIV Prevalence as a Project Development Objective (PDO) and performance
       indicatorhas provenunrealistic. HIVprevalence represents the cumulativenumber of
       HIV infections (new and old) minus those who have died. In contrast, HIV incidence
       reflects recent infections, usually expressed as the number o f new HIV infections
       acquired in the last year but i s much more difficult to measure. Therefore, HIV
       prevalence, which i s easier to measure, i s usedmore commonly than incidence. The MAP
       interim review in 2004 first flagged the limitations of usingHIV prevalence as a PDO
       andthese include: (a) HIV prevalence is slow to respond to changes inHIVriskbehavior
       and HIV incidence; (b) in concentrated epidemics, HIV prevalence in the general
       population reflects the tail-end o f a long infection chain; (c) HIV prevalence provides no
       timely information as to whether a project i s on or off track and does not enable
       management to manage by results; (d) HIV prevalence depends on the balance between
       incidence and mortality, which may be changed by increasing access to treatment; (e)
       HIVprevalence changes cannot be attributed to a single development partner's efforts -
       they reflect the totality o f national and international HIV responses; and (f) HIV
       prevalence measures may not be consistent or stable over time.

       Slow implementation is principally due to weak or inefficient institutional
       arrangements and project design. Based on experience, key areas of institutional and
       implementation arrangements, reflected in the ISRs and agreed with governments, need
       to be revised and strengthened to accelerate implementation. Challenges in the
       institutional, implementation and project         arrangements include: (a) inappropriate
       procurement and financial management arrangements, and countries that were approved
       before May 2004 not benefiting from new Bank procurement guidelines (approved in
       May 2004 and revised in October 2006); (b) weak country level coordination o f donor


                                                  3

       financing as well as weak coordination by the national AIDS authority, its secretariat,
       decentralized coordination entities, and public sector ministries including coordination
       with ministry o f Health; (c) unrealistic project cost estimates which will require
       reallocating funds between expenditure categories to                 support priority areas; (d)
       limitations inSpecial Account ceilings which constrain scaling up with communities; (e)
       project description and activities not geared to support modifications in targeting and
       prioritization; and (f) the need for closing date extensions to achieve the revised
       objectives.
       Key lessons learned from IEG4and QAG5 reviews: IEG reviews of ICRs underscore
       the need for: (a) stronger and functional M&E systems to demonstrate impact, especially
       inthe context of a learning-by-doing approach; (b) improving coordination for a more
       prioritized, multisectoral, and mainstreamed response; (c) baseline data by countries and
       donors; (d) carefully crafted community interventions using concern for one disease as
       an entrke for programs targeted at other diseases, as well as strengthening the related
       health systems; (e) strategic management o f the epidemic and to customize the
       multisectoral approach; and (f) the involvement o f health ministries for a successful
       response to HIV/AIDS. These reviews reinforcedthat HIV prevalence should not be used
       as a measure of success o fprevention efforts.
       QAG assessment: QAG assessed 3 countries for the quality o f supervision (QSA7). Their
       key findings point to the following: (i) supervision should draw more extensively
                                                       MAP
       and use knowledge gained from other similar operations as well as from other similar
       reviews including M&E reports, surveys and MTWICRs; (ii)supervision and M&E
       needs to be intensive considering MAP support to decentralized response; (iii) roles    the
       and responsibilities o f various entities responsible for coordination and implementation
       should be clear; (iv) coordination and harmonization need to be put inpractice; and (iv)
       uneven supervision support from the Bank adversely affects the project implementation
       performance.

c. STEPSTAKEN IMPROVE PROJECTSPEFWORMANCE
                       TO
11. In order to improve the effectiveness and efficacy o f the projects, by addressing the
challenges identified above and to improve the portfolio performance (section 111), the Africa
Regionhas decided to address the performance challenges ina comprehensive manner. An issues
paper (Annex 1) has been prepared by the Africa Region and shared with project teams and the
management.      As a result of the various contributions provided, the following key steps have
beentaken:

   0    Comprehensive review of all active HIV/AIDS projects: In April 2006, the Africa
       Region reviewed all active HIV projects in collaboration with AFTHD, LEGAF, and
       HDNGA to identifyprojects that neededProject Development Objective changes andor
       restructuring to incorporate improved knowledge of the epidemic. Task Teams then
       identified other key areas for improvement based on the lessons learned and reviews by
       QAG and IEG;


4ICR reviews of Ethiopia, Eritrea and Ghana (fast generation MAP projects).
5QSA7 reviews ofBurundi, Chad, Republic of Guinea andNigeria.


                                                       4

0 Developing an HIV/AIDS Results Scorecard: In October 2006, the Afiica Region and
 HDNGA finalized an HIV/AIDS results Scorecard for all HIV projects. It was adopted
 by the Region for all ongoing and future HIV/AIDS operations. The scorecard is based
  onthree keyprinciples, namely that a mechanismand systems are inplace inall countries
  to report on indicators, indicators are agreed upon with all development partners, and
  indicators can provide aggregate results for Africa. The Scorecard (Annex 2) will: (a)
  reduce country burden o f multiple reporting; (b) be a major achievement towards
  harmonizing M&E at the country level; and (c) provide the Africa region with a better
  tool to report on the region's performance on the epidemic. The scorecard does not
  replace the country indicators but a subset and i s complementary. It is based on the
  indicators selected from globally agreed HIV indicators on prevention, care, treatment
  and mitigation required by UNGASS, MDG, and IDA. The indicators have been
  harmonized with the indicator sets o f other major partners in HIVIAIDS (U.S.
  Government PEPFARindicators andthe Global Fund'slist o f 'Top Ten' indicators).

0 Additional supervision support: AFTQK established an Escrow Account in 2005 to
  support problem projects and all HIV projects are encouraged to utilize this fund to
  address challenges;
  Improving quality at entry: The Region focused on improving quality at entry for all
  second generation HIV projects by adopting Committee on Development Effectiveness
  (CODE) recommendations on the IEG evaluation o f HIV/AIDS project in 2005. These
  recommendations are used as access criteria to the next generation HIV projects,
  including: financial gap analysis for the country, addressing lessons learned from the first
  generation project, areas o f support by other donors, and clarifying objectives and
  developing arealistic results framework;
  Intensified technical assistance: As an ongoing effort, ACTahca, AFTHD and GHAP
  (HDNGA) intensified their technical assistance to operations by supporting project
  supervision, portfolio monitoring, ISRreviews and extendingboth financial and technical
  support to problem projects. HDNGA, in partnership with UNAIDS and UNDP has
  rolled out a technical assistance program to assist countries inreviewing and developing
  their national HIV strategies and action plans. This service i s being provided under the
  AIDS Strategy andAction Planning (ASAP) support. ACTafrica established a Technical
   Support Team (TST) which provided informal but intense field reviews and
  recommendations to address institutional and programmatic challenges to improve
  project performance.

  Intensified support on Monitoring and Evaluation. The Global AIDS Monitoring and
  Evaluation team (GAMET) based inHDNGA, has intensifiedits technical support to all
  HIV/AIDS operations in the region. This assistance includes support in the review and
   development o f national strategic M&E framework, costed M&E action plans, synthesis
   of epidemiological analysis o f the country, integrating M&E in the review and
   development process o fprioritizednationalHIV/AIDSstrategy and actionplans.
  Established an Early Warning system. ACTafrica established an early warning system
  to use various Bank system data to identify potential challenges in the projects and to
  undertake corrective measuresby supportingproject teams.




                                            5

    111. MULTI-COUNTRYHIV/AIDSPROGRAM(MAP) PORTFOLIO

12.   Since 2000 (FYOl), the response and demand from African countries far exceeded
expectations, and the MAP funds were committed twice as fast as the Bank had expected. In
FY02, the Board approved a second USD 500 million envelope for the MAP from IDA-13
resources, this time as grant hnding. By early FY04, all active IDA countries in sub-Saharan
Africa had M A P projects approved or in the pipeline, and by late FY04, the initial USD1.O
billion made available for the MAP had been fully committed. However, new commitments in
2005 and 2006 were modest. Table-1 shows annual IDA-financed projects inAfrica and average
commitment per project:

                           Table -1. MAP/IDA FinancedProjects* inAfrica
                                         (Amounts inequivalent USD million)
                                                                                             Pipeline
                   FiscalYear:       2001        2002       2003         2004   2005   2006     2007
     No. of projects                     7          10          5          9       5      3        6
     Avg. per project (USD
     mil)                               41         22          35          40     16     25       35
     Total amount (USD mil)            287        297         173         356     80     98      210


     IDA Credit                        287        297                                    98      180
     IDA Grant                                                173         356     80               30
     IBRD

(*) Includes 4 repeater, 4 additional financing and 4 sub-regional projects


13. As o f March 2007, the Bank has approved USD1.25 billion for 40 MAP projects. In the
current FY six projects are in the pipeline (3 repeater projects and 3 additional financing). The
equivalent o f about USD 900 million has been disbursed under the Africa MAP (including
closed projects).
14. Second generation projects for Benin, Burkina Faso, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana and
Madagascar have been approved. Additional financing has also been approved for Cape Verde,
Nigeria andRwanda. Botswana, Cameroon, and Kenya are under preparation and included inthe
FY07/08 pipelines. All new and second generation projects will address the challenges and
recommendations highlighted in Section I1above. About USD210 million is inthe business plan
for FY07, w h c h includes USD$SO million additional financing for Nigeria. FY08 projects
include USD40 million for Cameroon, USD5O million for Botswana (to be the first HIV/AIDS
Afhcan IBRDproject), Mozambique i s likely to request additional funds as well (Togo and Cote
d'Ivoire remain in non accrual status). The Uganda MAP project ended and Zambia will end
soon and the two countries have not requested IDA support for follow on projects and are
currently conducting financing andprogram gap studies.
15. Besides the challenges faced during implementation and overly ambitious PDOs and key
performance indicators, by FY05 at-risk HIV projects increased to about 52%. Risk factors
related very closely to the findings o f other reviews (section I1 above):           very limited M&E
capacity, slow disbursement, weak procurement performance and project management. In an


                                                           6

effort to respond to these poor performance factors, intensive efforts were made through focused
technical support from the region and HDNGA to concentrate on improvements. Over the next
24 month period o f intense technical support (section II-C), the at-risk projects declined from
52% inFY05 to 19% by FY07with improved HIV/AIDS portfolio realism to 83%. As o f March
2007, six o f 33 active projects are "problem" projects with their DO/IP unsatisfactory or
moderately unsatisfactory. Annex 4 provides an overview of the HIV/AIDS portfolio from 2001
to 2007
16. However, the HIV/AIDSportfolio remains susceptible to risks that are now the subject of
proposed restructuringto addressbroadMAPaspects as well as country specific issues.



         IV. SUMMARYOFPROPOSEDPROJECTAMENDMENTS

17. The proposed umbrella restructuring would eliminate prevalence as a Development
Objective indicator and refocus new objectives towards HIV/AIDS prevention, carekreatment
and mitigation interventions at the country level. National responses would focus on improving
monitoring and evaluation capacity, realigning indicators to national strategies, funding priority
interventions as well as setting-up better coordinated institutional arrangements. This proposed
restructuringwould include 8 projects worth the equivalent o f about USD 300 million o f active
portfolio. Individual requests from the governments were receivedfrom all 8 countries.
18. The restructuring follows a wide range o f consultations with project Task Teams, AFTHD,
AFTQK, HDNGA and its Global Monitoring and Evaluation Team, and all relevant client
countries.
19. Table-2 shows the summary o fkey changes to 8 projects seeking Board approval:
                              Table -2 AmendmentsRequiringBoardApproval




        (*) Such as increase indisbursement percentages,reallocation of funds, adopting of CountryFinancingParameters (CFP)




                                                                   7

Projects to bepresented to the Board separately
20.  Some projects including for the Central A h c a n Republic, Mozambique and the Sub-
regional Treatment Acceleration Projectwould be presented to the Board separately as described
below.
                  Table -3 Projectsto be presentedto the Board Separately

                                                      Key ChangesRevisions




21.   The Central African Republic Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project (Cr: IDA3.5840) - SDR
13.3 million (equivalent USD 17 million) was approved by the Board on December 14,2001 and
didnot become effective due to CAR'Snon-accrual status after the Board approval. The country
has recently come out o f its non-accrual status. CAR restructuring will be treated separately as
the Government has not finalizedits positionregardingthe use o fthe remaining credit allocation.
It might ask to use half of this allocation to contribute to the fight against HN-AIDS and the
other halffor other urgenthealthand social investments.
22.   The Sub-regional Treatment Acceleration Project (TAP) - (Burkina Faso Cr: H1060;
Ghana Cr: H1050; Mozambique Cr: H1040; UNECA Cr: H1080; WHO Cr: H1090) - SDR 41.4
million (equivalent USD 59.8 million) project was approved by the Board on June 17, 2004 and
became fully effective for all countries and partners on March 14, 2005. The Project's closing
date i s September 30, 2007. Due to the complex nature o f the project involving 3 countries,
WHO and UNECA, a separate detailed restructuring request will be submitted to the Board by
December 2007. The current Project Development Objective i s to assist the countries to scale up
and implement comprehensive treatment programs for persons living with HIV/AIDS by
providing a range o f quality services which are effective, affordable and equitable. This PDO
does not reflect the learning aspects o f the project and all three country governments have agreed
inprincipleto revise the PDOaccordingly. Theproposedrestructuringmaybeaccompaniedbya
request for extension in order to allow time for the project to show results to beneficiaries and
provide lessons learned. The project i s due to close on September 30,2007. As o f May 17 2007,
the project has disbursed the equivalent o f USD34 million. The PDO and IP are both rated
satisfactory.
23. Mozambique HIV/AIDS Response Project (Grant No HO30-Moz) was approved by the
Board on March 28, 2003, and became effective on August 15, 2003. The project development
objective i s to slow the spread o f HN/AIDS in Mozambique and mitigate the effects o f the
epidemic through prevention and care activities. The project was rated unsatisfactory in May
2004 and has remained so up to March 2007. The proposed restructuring would include: (i)
outsourcing o f subprojects management; (ii)      reallocations o f funds to support a pool-funding




                                                   8

arrangement with other development partners; (iii)review o f procurement management
arrangements; and (iv) extension o fproject closing date.



     V.       PROPOSEDPROJECTRESTRUCTURINGSEEKINGBOARD
                                               APPROVAL

24. Board approval i s requested for the following project specific restructuring. Overall
justification for restructuring i s provided inSection I1above:


Democratic Republic of Congo: MultisectoralHIV/AIDS Proiect - (Cr. HOSOO) - SDR 68.4
million (USD equivalent 102 million): The project was approved as a grant by the Board on
March 26, 2004 and became effective on October 8, 2004. The project's closing date is January
31,2011.
25.     Current Project Development Objectives. The Project's development objective i s to
mitigate the negative impact of the HIV epidemic on the development o f the recipient through
reducingthe risk o f sexual, intravenous andvertical transmission ofHIV.
26.     Proposed Project Development Objectives: To assist the Recipient in: (i)                 increasing the
 access to STI/HIV/AIDS treatment; (ii)            mitigating the health and socio-economic impact o f
HIV/AIDS at the individual, household, and community level; and (iii)                     building strong and
 sustainable national capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
 27.    Status. As o f May 17,2007, the Project has disbursed the equivalent o f USD 32.8 million.
 The DO is Unsatisfactoryand IP is Moderately Satisfactory.
 28. The Project has financed: (i)           preventive activities6, curative and mitigation measures
 through several public sector entities for about USD5.93 million and through NGOs, as well as
 other private sector entities for about USD3.45 million; (ii)local response activities by
 community-based-organizations for USD0.55 million; (iii) central coordinating unit and its 5
                                                                      the
 provincial sub-units, M&E and capacity buildingfor USD9.54 million. Incoordination with the
 other donors7 supporting the government, the Project recently dropped its initial strategy under
 which several NGOs would be contracted to vertically implement elements o f the health related
 HIV/AIDSpackageinselected zones acrossthe country. The partners andthe government opted
 instead for adding the needed financial resources to the 150 health zones contracted under the
 Health Sector Rehabilitation Support Project (HSRSP) and the Emergency Multisectoral
 Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMW) that are covering an estimated 20 million
 people, to implement a comprehensive integrated continuum o f care health, including ARV
 treatment.
 29.    Project implementation was critically slowed because o f major procurement and financial
 issues. This was due to the weak performance o f the financial management agent (FMA),
 recruited by the Project to assist in procurement and financial management. A Bank initiated

 6 12.24 million condoms distributed; 16,089 securedblood transfusions; 48,929 patients with sexually transmitted
 infection properly treated; 44,239 persons having voluntary counseling and testing, 4,402 orphans getting a
 scholarship, 4,776 AIDS patients under treatment, specific IEC modules for primary and secondary students.
  Global Fund,WHO, UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, CDC, DFID.


                                                          9

investigation reported that FMA overlooked financial and procurement mismanagements by the
Project and M o H staff (these staff were later suspendedby the government). On the institutional
arrangement side, the role and responsibilities o f the National AIDS Secretariat's Project
Implementation Unit was unclear in terms o f its coordination responsibility and o f project
implementation. This resulted in serious delays inthe decision-makmg hierarchy engaging NAS,
the PIU as well as MoH. In addition, poor coordination o f other stakeholders' activities by the
MAP financed NAS, adversely affected donor collaboration. Other donors perceived NAS as a
World Bank entity.
30.     Poor coordination with M o H and lack o f an integrated approach with other health sector
programs EMRRP and HSRSP also delayed project implementation. The ongoing EMRRE'
health component covering approx 10 million people and the recent advent o f the HSRSP, also
covering approximately 10 million people, both provide a comprehensive package o f health
services and offer an opportunity to integrate MAP activities. Coordination efforts with the
Global FundHIV/AIDS interventions andthe upcomingDfDHIV/AIDS Project also provide an
opportunity to better target MAP financing for health related HIV/AIDS activities (transfusion,
PMTCT, ARV treatment and VCT). Through the restructuring, packaging o f MAP'Shealth-
HIV/AIDS activities to NGOs contracted under the two health projects financed by the World
Bank will significantly improve the component performance, coordination with MOH as well as
with the Global Fund and DID. A new activity to complement the Global Fund and donor
financing for ART will be included in the Project to provide nutritional support to PLWHA
under treatment.
31.    The Project Development Objective will be revised to be within the framework of the
"Three Ones" principles. The original objective and K P I s were devised for a vertical approach
and were either too ambitious or too narrow with regard to the current needs, available Project
funding, andmore support from other donors.
32.    In order to improve the institutional and implementation arrangements, the government
agrees to: (i) channel resources for HIV/AIDS activities through contracted health zones within
the framework o f the two ongoing health sector projects in coordination with the other major
donors (GFATM, Belgium, USAID, CDC and soon DFID). This will simplify the
implementation of the health related HIV/AIDS component in the MAP Project; (ii)               an
 agreement with the government not to extend FMA's contract that is due to end in September
2007, and to hire a procurement agent as well as international technical experts inprocurement,
 internal auditing and financial management; (iii) the prevention component will be redesigned to
take into account existing and planned interventions; (iv) HIV/AIDS interventions will be better
 integrated with TB and Maternal Child Health; and (v) in order to meet the principles o f the
 "Three Ones", the Programme National Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le VIWSIDA (PNMLS)
 coordination function will be detached from the PIU. Recently, USAID financed a consultation
 to review the managerial capacity o f the local institutions, EU financed a consultation on the
 Country Coordinating Mechanism and UNAIDS launched a local consultation to review the
 institutional HN/AIDS setting. However, the effort was not well coordinated and a highlevel
 concerted effort (including the Bank) will permit reaching a proper diagnosis and corresponding
 recommendations. This work i s plannedto be completed inthe current calendar year and will be
 initiated ina separate amendment to the financing agreement after ajoint donor review.
 33. The proposed restructuring o f the DRC Project will benefit the country by: (i)
reformulating the PDO and KPI to the realities in the country; (ii) separating the PNMLS
                                                                     and


                                                  10

coordination and implementation functions             to   strengthen institutional     arrangements.
Rationalization will also allow addition o f new activities including: (i)  training on HIV related
activities; (ii)conducting IEC activities on the effects o f HIV/AIDS; (iii)    supporting the formal
and informal education to promote behavioral changes; and (iv) promoting the use o f condoms.
34.   Government Request. The government of DRC requests amendments to the financing
agreement to: (i)   modify the current PDO to realign it to the national strategy; (ii) K P I s to
                                                                                       revise
make them more realistic in view of the past experience and to include patient treatment with
ARV. It is expected that the proposed amendments will significantly improve the efficiency and
efficacy o fthe Project's support to DRC nationalHIV/AIDS program.
35.   Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought
include: (i)  Schedule 2: Objectives o f the Project; (ii) Schedule 6: Update indicators and their
targets.


Ghana Multi-Sector HIVIAIDS Proiect (M-SHAP) - (CrC41250GI.I) - SDR 13.9 million
{USD equivalent 20 millionl: The project was approved as an IDA credit by the Board on
November 15, 2005 and became effective on March 15,2006. The project's closing date i s June
30,201 1.
36.    Current Project Development Objectives: The objectives of the repeater Project are to
support the Government o f Ghana's program to: (i)          reduce the new infection rate among
vulnerable groups and the general population; (ii)     mitigate the impact o f the epidemic on the
health and socio-economic systems as well as infected and affected persons; and (iii)        promote
healthy life-styles, especially inthe area o f sexual and reproductivehealth.
37.    ProposedProject Development Objectives: To increase access to HIV care, prevention
and impact mitigation services for high risk groups, vulnerable populations and the general
population.
38.    Status. As ofMay 17, 2007, the Project has disbursedthe equivalent of USD 3.7 million.
TheDO is rated Satisfactory and IP Moderately Satisfactory.
39.   M-SHAPis one of the first MAP repeater projects and it finances the Ghana HIV/AIDS
Program as a sector wide approach. The Project focuses on harmonizing the various on-going
and future programs while strengthening Ghana AIDS Commission's capacity to efficiently
monitor and coordinate resources and activities in support o f the National Strategic Framework
I1(NSF-11). M-SHAPprogramdevelopment goals arethose oftheNSF 11.
40.    It is noted that the current project (repeater MAP project) became effective before the
results o f the first project were reviewed by the ICR and the recent PPAR conducted by IEG so
that many but not all o f the lessons learned from the first project were addressed in M-SHARP
design. Continuation o f a follow-up project right after the closing o f the first project was done at
Government's request to avoid financial and programmatic gaps in the implementation of the
national HIV/AIDS strategy. Further implementation improvements will be made as part o f
supervision.
41.   As the lessons learned from the review of the first project became available, Government
requested that the PDO o f the repeater project be revised to remove reference to reducing new
infections, which i s beyond the scope o f the project (but remains the longer-tern goal o f the



                                                  11

NSF-11).M-SHAPwill also improve targeting of vulnerable groups and prioritize its support to
geographical areas where the need isjustified.
42. The key lessons learned from the first project include: (i) use o f HIV prevalence data
                                                                    the
should not be a measure o f success o f a Bank funded HIV/AIDS project; (ii)        the decision to
design the project without a M o H component was not appropriate; (iii)mainstreaming
HIV/ADS in the formal education sector was effective for comprehensive targeting of at-risk
youth who reported reduction in number o f partners and increased use o f condoms; (iv)
contracting an international auditor to assess the use o f funds by civil society organizations
contributed to a balance between implementation facilitation and fiduciary responsibility; (v)
decentralization o f the HIV/AIDS response i s successful as demonstrated by the strong
ownership by provinces and districts; (vi) development partner collaboration and co-financing
was successful and shouldbepromotedand expanded; (vii) an effective M&E system i s essential
for optimal effectiveness o f the MAP "learning by doing" strategy; (viii) there i s a need to
strengthen the focus on strategic management o f the epidemic and tailor the multisectoral
approach to Ghana's contained and relatively stable epidemic; (ix) the private sector as an engine
o f growth should be more systematically included in implementation; and (x) the financing o f
salaries through donor funds should be considered with caution where it concerns the financing
o f institutions that need continued and sustainable financing beyond the scope o f projects; (ref
GARFUNDICR and IEGevaluation).
43. The Project is in an early stage o f implementation. So far, it has managed to bring all
sectors and stakeholders together to determine priorities o f the national response and to put them
together in an annual Program o f Work (POW). Efforts have begun to strengthen the Ghana
A D S Commission (GAC) to enhance management o f the national response and coordinate
resources. The M&Eteam i s working closely with GAMET to assess the progress and to prepare
an improvement plan based on the recommendations o f the IEG review o f the ICR and PPAR.
All development partners are working together on an M&E operational manual which will also
help strengthenthe system.
44.   One major bottleneck has been that the Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC) has not prepared
the Sustainability Action Plandue by end 2006 andtherefore the non-salary aspects are not being
implemented from January 2007. However the Government since January 1, 2006 has taken
over some o f the GAC operational costs but not those at the regional and district levels. The
GAC informed development partners that the Government will be considering the GAC
sustainability issueswithin the broader context o f the public sector reforms currently on-going in
the country.     It is not yet known when the public sector reforms will be completed. The
Government has been notified o f their non-compliance with a dated covenant and the need for
the action plan has been raised as a matter o f urgency. In response, GAC management has
prepared a draft which has been sent to the Ministryo f Finance and Economic Planning.
45.   GovernmentRequest. Government o f Ghana requests to amendthe Financial Agreement
to change the project development objective to: "Increase access to HIV care, prevention and
impact mitigation services for high risk groups, vulnerable populations and the general
population". This will align the project to the goals o f the National Strategic Framework I1as it
has become clear that t h s Project alone cannot achieve the national objective which i s only
contributing to the implementation o f the National Strategic Framework 11. The project team
recognizes the need to fully align the current list o f KPIs with the HIV results scorecard (Annex-



                                                 12

2). The project team will address the alignment o f project indicators in the next supervision
missionto ensuregovernment andpartner buy-inand agreement on the Scorecard indicators
46. Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval i s sought
include: (i)  Schedule 2: Objectives o f the Project; and (ii)    Schedule 5: Key Performance
Indicators.

Republicof Guinea: MultisectoralAIDS SIL (FY03) -(Cr: 30140-GUI)-SDR 15.4 million
{USD equivalent 20.3 million): The project was approved as an IDA grant by the Board on
December 13, 2002 and became effective on March 28, 2003. The project's closing date is July
31,2008.
47.    Current Project Development Objectives. The objective o f the Project is to limit and
reverse the trend o f the epidemic by preventing new infections. This would be achieved by
supporting Government's multisectoral efforts to limit and contain the spread o f the HIV/AIDS
epidemic through: (i)    implementation o f the Recipient's HIV/AIDS National Plan to increase
access to prevention services as well as care and support for those infected and affected by
HIV/AIDS; and (ii)promotion o f civil society and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS
prevention.
48.    Proposed Project Development Objectives. Increase in HIV/AIDS knowledge and
promote low risk behaviors; and improvement in the coverage and in the use o f HIV/AIDS
prevention, care, treatment and support services.
49.    Status. As ofMay 17, 2007, the Projecthaddisbursed the equivalent ofUSD 17.9 million.
The DOis Moderately Satisfactory and IP i s Satisfactory.
50. According to the 2005 DHS, the project's performance indicators show a positive trend
towards improving sexual behavior among the `at risk' groups inGuineawith the results that: (i)
87% o f sex workers used a condom intheir last sexual encounter; (ii) numbers o f truck stops
                                                                      the
that offer an HIV prevention program to drivers reached 93%. Service coverage also improved
with 100% of line ministries and the two main labor unions having their HIV/AIDS work plans
implementedthereby attaining the target for the end o f the project. Also, 100% o f condom sale
points did not report condom shortages during the three years o f implementation. On service
quality, the project continues to finance the blood safety in Guinea and 100% o f blood units in
the hospitals are regularly and adequately screened. All national and regional hospitals have
facilities to dispose o f hospital waste and use them regularly. However, only one private service
delivery point received yearly quality logo (whereas initially it was expected to have five per
year).
51.    The recent QSA7 by QAG recognizes that the project has been learning by doing and
undertaking corrective measures to achieve its goals. The project supervision was rated highly
satisfactory.   Nevertheless, the original PDO that commits the country to reverse the HIV
incidence with the Project's support i s an overestimation o f the country's capacity to achieve.
Therefore, based on the experience and lessons learned from the implementation o f project
activities in the last 3 years, acknowledging that measuring HIV incidence i s currently beyond
the country's capacity, and because it i s not possible to determine if the Project interventions
would be solely responsible for having an impact on the incidence, the Government has
requested the Bank to change the PDO to make it more realistic and achievable.



                                                  13

52. Inaddition, during Project implementation it was realized that there was a greater need to
invest in capacity building than was envisaged during Project preparation in 2002. Weak
capacity is also recognized as the major bottleneck in government and its partners' capacity to
deliver the objectives o fthe nationalHIV/AIDS strategy.
53. Concerning the revision o f the national strategy on HIV/AIDS, discussions are ongoing
between CNLS, UNAIDS and ASAP (AIDS Strategy and Action Plan), and an action plan i s
beingproposedto all stakeholders for adoption.
54. Government Request. The government has requested: (i) change the current PDO to
                                                                  to
"Increase in HIV/AIDS knowledge and promote low risk behaviors" and "Improvement in the
coverage and in the use of HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment and support services"; (ii)     to
drop the KPIs that are not realistic to measure, and (iii)  to adopt the new Bank procurement
guidelines o f May 2004 (revised October 2006) and remove procurement thresholds o f the
aggregate amount for some procurement methods (within the new guidelines) to avoid
implementationdelays.
55.  Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought
include: (i) Schedule 2: Objectives o f the Project; (ii)Schedule 3: Procurement; and (iii)
Schedule 6: KeyPerformance Indicators.


Guinea-Bissau:HIV/AIDS GlobalMitigationSupport Proiect-(Cr. H110-GUB) -SDR 4.7
million(USD equivalent 7.0 million): The project was approved as an IDA grant bythe Board
on June 2, 2004 and became effective on January 17, 2005. The project's closing date i s
December 31,2007.
56. Current Project Development Objectives. The objective o f the Project is to assist the
government o f Guinea-Bissau in: (i)reducing the spread o f HIV/AIDS infection in the
population; (ii) increasing the access to STI/HIV/AIDS treatment; (iii) mitigating the health and
socio-economic impact o fHIV/AIDS at the individual, household, and community level; and (iv)
buildingstrong andsustainable nationalcapacity to respondto the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
57.   ProposedProjectDevelopmentObjectives.To assist the recipient inincreased access to
HIVprevention, care, treatment andmitigation services.
58. Status. As of May 17, 2007, the Project had disbursed the equivalent o f USD 4.7 million.
The latest draft ISR following the Mid-Term Review rates the DO as Moderately Satisfactory
and the IP as ModeratelyUnsatisfactory.
59.   Since the grant supporting the Project became effective inJanuary 2005, some progress has
been made by the country. Prevention activities have gradually expanded and now include all
key ministries and there is an increased access to condoms to all sexually active age groups. A
national communications strategy was launched with the help o f rural radios and Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to focus on reducingthe spread o f HIV/AIDS infection; its
effectiveness i s presently being assessed. Access to treatment for sexually transmitted diseases
and HIV/AIDS has been expanded and it is planned to continue to do so in the five priority
regions as part o f a multi-donor collaborative effort (250 persons receiving anti-viral treatment,
expanded support for preventiono fmother to c l l dtransmission). Finally, NGOshave continued
to provide education, health and nutrition support to those affected by HIV/AIDS. A scheme to



                                                14

increase access to micro-credit for this group i s presently under preparation incollaboration with
the UnitedNations Development Program.
60. The project has a number of specific challenges which will have significant negative
impact on the outcomes of the Project ifnot addressed through this restructuring: (i)       overall
M&E and specifically, data collection and reporting, remains the critical bottleneck in the
national M&E system. This will require the revision and realignment o f key performance
indicators and their targets to the reality and the capacity o f the country to collect and report
progress; (ii)the current PDOneeds to be revisedto acknowledge that the country does not have
the capacity and adequate resources to reduce the spread o f HlV infection (as defined in the
current PDO) especially within the project timeframe; (iii)      increased support to Ministry o f
Health i s needed to develop and roll out the ART strategy to strengthen the integrated health
network. Support to development o f health sector infrastructure to improve access to treatment
was planned to be included in the National Health Sector Development Project - this did not
materialize. Since improving access to ART i s not a possibility without support from the current
Project, reallocations are needed in some expenditure categories; (iv) the roles o f the National
AIDS Council and its Secretariat need to be strengthened for better integration of the Bank
financed and the Global Fund financed interventions. This will support the country in meeting
the principles o f the Three Ones; (v) social marketing o f condoms has been stopped by PSI and
given the limited capacity in-country for sustainable social marketing, the emphasis will be
shifted to distribution through pubic sector agencies as well as one or two national NGOs; and
(vi) skills building to support income generation activities for PLWHA and commercial sex
workers needs to be targeted and prioritized to reflect limited resources and capacity.          In
addition, it would be difficult to attain the current DO within the project implementation period
given the precarious state o f national infrastructure and the level o f international support.
Therefore the project needs to be extendedby 12months.
61. The proposed restructuring also takes into account the nature o f the epidemic in Guinea-
Bissau. Based on limiteddata, the epidemic i s primarily concentrated among those 25 years and
older, and in particular in the age group 45 years and older. N o overall prevalence data are
available and Guinea-Bissau has only formally reported on sub-groups such as the military or
from donors to the nationalbloodbank. Early sexual activity (10% by age 1l),      multiple partners
coupled with lack of knowledge o f methods o f transmission and low condom use require that
prevention activities are focused in particular on the younger age groups, while a mixture o f
prevention, care and mitigation activities will be focused on older groups. Inaddition stigma to
HNpositivepeople is very strong, which is why the project has provided support to strengthen
the National Association o fPeople Livingwith HIV/AIDSand anti-discrimination legislation.
62. The proposed restructuring will refine the DO and key performance indicators in line with
the existing capacity and resources, target resources to the vulnerable groups, strengthen
institutional and coordination mechanisms with other donors, strengthen nationalmonitoring and
evaluation capacity, and integrate the ART strategy o f Ministry o f Health and provide support to
improve infrastructure.
63. Government Request. The government o f Guinea-Bissau requested amendments in the
financing agreement to: (i) the current PDO to increase access to HNprevention, care,
                             modify
treatment and mitigation services; (ii)revise KPIs and incorporate them in the financial
agreement (current financial agreement does not contain indicators); and (iii)       revise project
desigddescriptionto reflect the changes proposed above.


                                                  15

64.  Recommended Amendments, The amendments for which Board approval is sought
include: (i)Schedule 1: Withdrawal o f proceeds o f the Credit; (ii)Schedule 2: project
Description; (iii)Schedule 4: Program implementation; (iv) Schedule 6: Objectives of the Project
and KeyPerformance Indicators; and (v) extension o fthe closing date by 12months.


MauritaniaHIV/AIDS MultiSectoralControlProiect (Cr. IDA-H0570) - SDR 15.3 million
[USD equivalent21 million). The project was approved as anIDA grant bythe Boardon July 7,
2003 andbecame effective on January 12,2004. The project's closing date is March 31,2009.
65.   Current ProjectDevelopmentObjectives. The development objective ofthe Project is to
maintain the level o f human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection that causes the acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) below the prevalence rate o f 1% and reduce opportunistic
infections.
66. ProposedProject Development Objectives. To increase the coverage and utilization of
HIV prevention services, of medical treatment and social care, especially for high risk and
vulnerable populations.
67.   Status.As o f May 17, 2007, the Projecthas disbursed the equivalent of USD 13.6 million.
BothDO and IP are Satisfactory.
68.   The HIV prevalence rate in Mauritania is still low (below 1%) in the general population,
but the current data (UNAIDS 2006) indicates that the epidemic i s evolving. With project
activities aiming at building structures and capacities for prevention and treatment o f HIV
infections, the project contributes, together with other interventions, to an improvement o f the
situation. For example, agreements have been signed with eight line ministries for activities that
focused on sensitization and distribution o f contraceptives. The Ministry o f Defense has
introduced systematic testing o f all new recruits. Also, with regards to the health sector response,
the project has financed eight sentinel sites covering the majority o f the country. An ambulatory
treatment center was created thanks to a partnership among the Government, IDA, the French
cooperation and French Red Cross. Furthermore, a center for Prevention of Mother to Child
Transmission (PMTCT) was opened based on collaboration among the Government, IDA,
UNICEF, and AWARE. The project has also financed the establishment o f three voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT) centers as well as for distribution o f contraceptives. The Civil
Society response has been important, and a private sector Coalition o f Mauritanian Enterprises
for HIVIAIDS control has been set up with the support o f the project. Progress has beenmade to
improve the M&E capacity with the identification o f the need to institute a bio-behavioral
surveillance survey for HIV, the development o f the TOR for the study and the initiation o f the
studywhich isnow inprogress (withGAMET support).
69.   The project was designed during a period when the Bank was the principal financier
resulting in a rather detailed project design which left little room for adaptation to the current
situation inthe country. The data collection and reporting situation were also very poor at the
time and did not permit targeting. Therefore, without changing the core activities o f the project,
the Government proposed a simplified project design better targeting high-risk and vulnerable
groups, while at the same time continuing efforts at targeting the general population. The four
project components are maintained while the sub-components are reduced from 16 to 9. The
eliminated sub-components do not merit being stand-alone sub-components, but will be eligible



                                                  16

for financing through other parts o f the project. A sub-component not considered a priority for
the project at this point i s the financing o f HIV/AIDS activities included in other projects, either
Bank or other donor financed. Also, the PDO is recognized as unrealistic due to inclusion o f
HIV prevalence for several specific target groups. The KPIs are not realistic and need to be
adapted to the changed PDO. To support implementation o f the simplifiedproject, a reallocation
of funds is needed to drop the activities that are not longer appropriate to achieve the project
outcomes.
70.   GovernmentRequest. The government of Mauritania requests to: (i) the PDO tomodify
increase the coverage and utilization o f HIV prevention services, medical treatment and social
care, especially for high risk and vulnerable populations; (ii)       review the project for 100%
financing by the Bank within the current Country Financing Parameters set by the Bank; (iii)
revise project description to simplify its design; and (iv) change current institutional
arrangements for better functioning o f decentralized structures and timely execution o f regional
activities includingdecentralization o fProject finance management.
71. Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval i s sought
include: (i)Schedule 1: Withdrawal o f Proceeds o f the Credit; (ii)Schedule 2: Project
Development Objective; (iii)Schedule 2: Project Description; (iv) Schedule 4: Program
Implementation; and (v) Schedule 6: KeyPerformance Indicators.


Niger Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Proiect (Cr. IDA-H031O) - SDR 18.2 million (USD
equivalent 25 million): The project was approved as an IDA grant by the Board on April 4,
2004 andbecame effective on October 10, 2004. The project's closing date is June 30,2008.
72. Current Project Development Objectives. The development objectives o f both the
National HIV Program and the Project are to: (a) slow the spread o f HIV/AIDS in the general
population; (b) mitigate the negative impact o f HIVIAIDS on individuals and communities; and
(c) strengthen the country's capacity to formulate, manage, implement, monitor, and evaluate a
viable cost-effective HIV/AIDS Program.
73.   Proposed Project Development Objectives. The objective o f the Project is to assist the
Recipient to implement its STI/HIV/AIDS Strategic National Framework, in order to slow the
spread, and mitigate the impact, o f the STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic, through a multisectoral
approach by: (i)  the extension to youth, women of childbearing age and other vulnerable groups
nationwide o f access to STI/HIV/AIDS prevention, care, mitigation services and treatment; and
(ii) strengtheningofthecapacity ofpublic, privateandcommunityinstitutionsto design,
    the
carry out and monitor Work Programs and Subprojects.
74. Status. As of May 17, 2007, the Project haddisbursedthe equivalent o fUSD 14.0 million.
BothDO and IP are Moderately Satisfactory.
75.   The project supports capacity-building activities necessary for the public sector and civil
society to be able to effectively and efficiently implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and
support activities in the country. Progress toward the objective is on track despite
implementation delays. The project finances the work plans o f 23 line Ministries aiming at
sensitizing the personnel within their ministries and within the different entities directly linked
with their ministries. The health system work plan has been based on care and treatment, and
also plays a pivotal role in preventive activities. Despite some difficulties in the treatment o f


                                                   17

persons living with AIDS, the project has supported: (i) creation o f 9 voluntary counseling
                                                             the
testing centers out o fthe 8 envisaged (with the support o f the Global Funds); (ii)the settingup o f
a mother-to-child transmission program; (iii)      the treatment o f 684 patients living with AIDS
under an antiviral free-distributionprogram; and (iv) the settingup of blood testing centers in42
health districts inregional andnational hospitals, and inkey maternity centers. The treatment of
patients i s provided free of cost countrywide. Altogether, 265 non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) have been financed around the country to develop prevention and health care promotion
campaigns. Real impact on the behavior change within the communities cannot be seen yet,
however, which is partly due to the very limited period inwhich the support to NGOs and their
scope o f activities was carried out and, inaddition to weaknesses inimplementationcapacity.
76.   While the eligible civil society activities are critical to the national response, they only
capture a subset o f what constitutes an effective national response to control and prevent
HIV/AIDS. At the same time, some key areas o f the national response remain under-funded.
Therefore, the proposed restructuring focus on facilitating the use o f project grant resources to
bridge current and future financing gaps in the civil society initiatives. Achieving this goal
would require two sets o f actions. First, it i s important to expand the eligibility o f expenditures
under the original Project design to match the scope o f activities included in the annual
implementation plan o f the National Strategic Framework. Second, simplified administrative
project procedures need to be introduced.          Strengthening the coordination of the national
responsewould also become a centralcomponent o fthe restructured Project.
77.   The Government's action plan for 2007-2010 faces two main challenges: first, the
acknowledgment that a sound and reliable national monitoring and evaluation system i s
paramount to measuring outcomes; and second, the importance o f an efficient coordination
mechanism especially for the utilization o f external resources. In addition, with the increased
financial support from other sources such as the Global Fund, the CISLS's absorptive capacity to
manage these funds has presented difficulties. Proposed changes will support government to
enhanceits capacity for a better coordinated response to HIV.
78.   Niger's government established a multisectoral coordinationunit as part o f the institutional
framework for the management o f the HN/AIDS program including the IDA project. However,
there was some tension from the start, which i s continuing today, regarding the respective roles
and responsibilities o f the different lead agencies (the CISLS - Coordination Intersectorielle de
Eutte contre le SIDA which leads the implementation o f the program, the PresidentialHIV/AIDS
Adviser, the Ministry o f Health and the NGO's acting as implementation agencies). One o f the
principal reasons for the low program implementation performance was the lack o f
communications and clear assignment o f responsibilities within the project implementation unit.
The MTR requested an organizational audit of the PMU, which has not been completed at this
time. To resolve this lack o f action, the project implementationunit (CISLS) will be assessed by
an independent consultant within 3 months o f restructuring to identify the remainingbottlenecks
and challenges affecting implementation and reach agreement on pro-active strategies to get the
project back on track and more importantly, obtain rapidresults on the ground.
79. Government Request.The Government requested amendments to the financing agreement
to: (i)modify the PDO to realign it to the national strategy; (ii)  incorporatenecessary changes in
the implementation arrangement for implementationefficiency; (iii) the project financing
                                                                        review
for 100% financing by the Bank (under the current CFP); (iv) adopt a simplified disbursement
schedule; (v) adopt May 2004 (revised October 2006) procurement rules to benefit from


                                                   18

abolishing aggregate thresholds for all procurement methods and the mandatory use of a annual
procurement plan would support the planning and coordination across implementing agencies;
and(vi) extend the project closingdatebyone year to implement the proposed amendments.
80. Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought
include: (i) Schedule 1: Withdrawal o f proceeds o f the Grant; (ii)
                                                                   Schedule 2: Description of the
Project; (iii)Schedule 3:Procurement; (iv) Schedule 4: Implementationprogram; (v) Objectives
o f the Project and Key Performance Indicators; and (vi) extension o f project closing date by 12
months.

Senegal HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Proiect (Cr: IDA-36010) - SDR 21.5 million
(USD equivalent 30 million): The project was approved as an IDA credit by the Board on
February 7, 2002 and became effective on January 31, 2003, The project's closing date is
September 30,2007.
81. Current Project Development Objectives. The overall development objective of the project
is to assist the Government in: (i)
                                  preventing the spread o f HIV/AIDS by reducing transmission
among high risk groups; (ii)  expanding access to treatment, care and support for people living
with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in Senegal to serve as a pilot for the implementation o f Anti-
Retroviral Treatment (ART) in Sub-Saharan Africa; and (iii)supporting civil society and
community initiatives for HIV/AIDS preventionandcare.
82. Proposed Project Development Objectives. To contribute to the Government's efforts in
controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic by expanding HIV/AIDS prevention interventions among
vulnerable groups (youth, women) and highrisk groups (commercial sex workers, TB patients,
MSM, truck drivers); expanding access to treatment, care and support for people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in Senegal; and supporting civil society and communities initiatives for
HIV/AIDS prevention and care.
83. Status. As o f May 17, 2007, the Project has disbursed the equivalent o f USD 21.9 million.
DO is Moderately Satisfactory and IP is ModeratelyUnsatisfactory.
84. Senegal has significantly scaled up its HIV interventions towards universal access and i s on
target to meet the MDG on HIV/AIDS as a result of institutional growth, decentralization and
capacity building efforts undertaken. The project financed the key public sector interventions
(health, youth, armed forces, women, and labor) and more than 600 civil society and private
sector proposals, which allowed to set up intervention sites in all the 11regions. This led to an
unprecedented increase in the utilization o f HIV-AIDS voluntary counseling and testing, which
has risen ten-fold (from 9,900 people in December 2002 to 94,130 people in December 2006).
Likewise, utilization o f care and support services by people living with HIV/AIDS has been
expanded and the number o f AIDS patients receiving antiretroviral treatment has increased from
870 in December 2002 to 5,158 in December 2006. Moreover targeted efforts were led by the
health sector and civil society towards services for commercial sex workers that reports great
progress in condom utilization with client. Senegal i s also implementing a unique intervention
that targets men having sex with men through a cohort o f 750 people who receive comprehensive
medical and psychosocial care as well as behavior change communication messages. This
noticeable progress in selected key performance indicators i s greatly enhanced by the very
encouraging results obtained from the 2006 behavioral surveillance survey that provided
preliminary data on high risk groups such as MSM, commercial sex workers, truck drivers and


                                                19

fishermen. Almost all groups report increased knowledge and greater adoption o f safer behavior
practices towards STIs and HIV/AIDS. The vulnerability and risk mapping implemented during
the project midterm reviewhas allowed the identification o fpriority areas and groups that will be
targeted by the newly approved sector plans, integrated regional plans, as well as civil society
and private sector proposals. Data is available for tracking and reporting on KPIs.             The
government will further align =Is      o f the project and the HlV Results Score Card, within the
context o f the national M&E system. This will include a review o f existing data collection
strategy /methods and institutional arrangements for data collection, to ensure availability of data
for reportingon the score cardandother requiredproject indicators.
85. Nevertheless, HIV prevalence among pregnant women i s reported to have increased from
1.45 to 1.7% (Epidemiological bulletins No. 9 for 2002 and No. 12 in2006, respectively). Also,
during the Project implementation, and considering the changing dynamics of the disease, it is
clear that the Bank cannot claim attribution o f reduction in HIV transmission through a short
term project, as this requires long term and sustained behavior change. Recognizing this
challenge, and considering that the current PDO could only be measured through incidence data
which cannot be collected on a wide scale in Senegal because o f the cost implications, it is
imperative to revise the PDO to make it more realistic inthe context ofthe country.
86.Beside the key advancements in reaching out and scaling up the national response to
HIV/AIDS, in the past 6 months the implementation o f the national program has deteriorated
sharply. The latest ISRunderscores major implementation challenges: (i)     slow disbursementdue
to cumbersome procedures to finance relevant subprojects for bothpublic sector and civil society
and insufficient capacity to manage the procurement plan, especially in the area o f civil works
and purchasing o f antiretroviral and other HIV-related commodities; (ii)   an excessive focus on
capacity building and sensitization, instead o f focus on behavioral change and targeted
prevention among highrisk groups and vulnerable children; (iii)     delays in finalizing the impact
analysis o f the first round o f proposals before second generation subprojects are financed by the
NAS; (iv) overloaded and understaffed NAS to manage funds from the Bank and the Global
Fund, resulting in poor coordination; and (v) contract/procurement mismanagement, including
issues related to misprocurement regarding4 subprojects (of the 2,073) receivedby the NAS.
 87. With guidance from the Bank team, the NAS cancelled several contracts that were not
properly awarded, took strong action against staff suspected o f collusion, including firing some
 o f them. Besides restructuring the Project to realign PDO and K P I s to national strategy and
 capacity o f the country, the region is putting together a Technical Support Team to conduct a
 detailed review o f the implementation and programmatic challenges identified in the latest ISR
 and recommend options to improve implementation. This review will be carried out within the
 current FY. The Project will also support operations research studies to understand better
 interventions for higher risk groups such as Menhaving Sex with Men (MSM), Commercial Sex
 Workers and Intravenous Drug Users, taking advantage o f ongoing BCC and care sub-projects
 that target them.
 88. Government Request. The government o f Senegal requests amendments in the financing
 agreement to: (i)   change the project development objective to contribute to the Government
 efforts in controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic by: PDO1: expanding HIV/AIDS prevention
 interventions among vulnerable groups (youth, women) and high risk groups (commercial sex
 workers, TB patients, MSM, truck drivers); PD02: expanding access to treatment, care and
 support for people living with HN/AIDS (PLWHA) in Senegal; and PD03: supporting civil


                                                   20

society and communities initiatives for HIV/AIDS prevention and care; (ii) adopt new Bank
                                                                               to
procurement guidelines (approved May 2004 and revised October 2006); and (iii)        remove K P I s
that claim to reduce prevalence or that report on the data that cannot be currently collected.
89. Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought include:
(i)Schedule 2: Objectives o f the Project; (ii)   Schedule 3: Procurement; (iii)  Schedule 5: Key
Performance Indicators; and (iv) extension o fproject closing date by 12months.


Tanzania Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Proiect (Cr: IDA H0590) - S D R 51.5 million W S D
equivalent 70 million): The project was approved as an IDA grant by the Board on July 7,2003
andbecame effective onOctober 15,2003. The project's closing date is September 30,2008.
90.    Current Project Development Objectives. The objective o f the Project i s to support
Tanzania's (Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar) multisectoral efforts to attack the HN epidemic
by scaling up and accelerating its national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic as outlined inits
National Multisectoral Strategic Framework on H N / A I D S through: (i)         mainstreaming of
HN/AIDS activities into the work programs o f all line ministries and local government
authorities, and supporting community based and private sector initiatives; (ii)     the prevention
and mitigation ofthe adversehealth and socio-economic impacts o fHIV/AIDS at the individual,
household and community levels; and (iii)      strengthening of the country's national capacity to
respond to the epidemic.
91.    Proposed Project Development Objectives. The objectives are to: (i)increase HIV
preventive knowledge and behavior; (ii)increase coverage and utilization of preventive,
treatment and support services; and (iii) a multisectoral response by enabling sectors to
                                          support
coordinate, implement, monitor and evaluate aspects of the HIVresponse.
92.    Status. As of May 17, 2007, the Project had disbursed the equivalent o f USD 38.5
million. BothDO and IP are Satisfactory.
93.     Extensive data onprevalence o f HIV is available inTanzania. Two population-based HIV
surveys were undertaken inthe last three years that provide excellent HIV prevalence estimates.
The prevalence i s 7.0% (male 6.3 and female 7.7%). There are about 2 millionpeople livingwith
HIV/AIDS inTanzania with close to 2 million orphans. A study undertakenin2005 inZanzibar
indicated that the prevalence amongst needle-sharing injecting drug users was 30%, signaling
that Zanzibar may have a concentrated epidemic and pointing to the need for more surveillance
works amongst most riskpopulations inZanzibar.
94.    Service delivery achievements to which the project contributed considerably until FY06,
include the following: (i)all regional and district hospitals are providing comprehensive
sexually-transmitted infections (treatment) services and anti-viral therapy (over 100,000 AIDS
patients have been enrolled); (ii) for condoms has substantially increased but stock-outs
                                  demand
inthe public sector continue to be a challenge; (iii) has been a rapid uptake of voluntary
                                                       there
counseling and testing services; (iv) there are 334 Prevention o f Mother-to-Child Transmission
centers in the country and some o f these centers serve as an entry point for Eull antiretroviral
services for the entire family, thus protecting the family unit and reducing the tragedy o f a
generation of orphans; (v) there are a number o f programs run by non-governmental
organizations, supported by the project, that aim to protect youth; and (vi) all line ministries and




                                                  21

local government authorities are mainstreaming HN/AIDS activities into their Medium-Term
ExpenditureFramework andreceivingfunds from the project.
95.    Nevertheless, challenges remain. The PDO as defined in the DGA and the PDO as
definedinthe PAD are different from each other. There are also indicator inconsistencies: First,
the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) inthe Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the indicators
inthe DevelopmentGrant Agreement (DGA) and the indicatorsinImplementationStatus Report
(ISR) are inconsistent with each other; second, there are some indicators that are inthe ISR,but
not in the PAD or DGA; third, there are indicators that are in the DGA, that are not KPIs or in
the ISR. The project indicators need to be restructuredto be better aligned with the PDOs and to
reflect the national HIVM&Esystem and HIV Scorecard indicators.           .
96.     Since the start o f the project, GAMET has assisted both Tanzania AIDS Commission for
AIDS (TACAIDS) and Zanzibar AIDS Commission (ZAC) to develop national HIV M&ERoad
Maps for both TACAIDS and ZAC. The two road maps define, on an activity by activity basis,
what i s required from the M&E system to measure the performance o f TMAP grants.
Specifically, the additional activities that need to be funded for Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar
are: (i)  capacity building efforts in M&E; (ii) systems strengthening activities at district
                                                   M&E
level; (iii)surveys; (iv) increased data dissemination and data use; (v) surveillance o f most at risk
populations; (vi) supervision and data auditing at the decentralized levels; and (vii) scaling up o f
HIV/AIDS interventionsinthe healthsector.
97.     To accommodate changes in the PDO, KPI and the new activities, and considering
implementation challenges faced during the past years, the government o f Tanzania has also
requested to increase the threshold o f the Special Account from the equivalent o f USD 5 million
to USDlO million. Reallocationo fthe funds amongthe expenditure categories will be required.
98.     Government Request. The Government o f Tanzania requests to: (i) the project
                                                                                   change
development objective to: PDO 1: Increased HIV preventive knowledge and behavior; PD02 :
Increased coverage and utilization o f preventive, treatment and support services; and PD03:
 Support a multisectoral response by enabling sectors to coordinate, implement, monitor and
 evaluate aspects o f the HIV response; (ii) revise all K P I s within the Generic Results Framework
 and to make them consistent in the PAD, Financing Agreement and in the ISR; (iii)         add a new
 activity for capacity building insurveyingto improve monitoring o f the new national HIV/AIDS
 framework; (iv) reallocate funds among the components and expenditure categories to
 accommodate the changes in PDO/KPI and the new range o f activities for the national HIV
M&E Road Maps; and (v) increase the Special Account ceiling from USD5 million to USDlO
million.
 99.    Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought
 include: (i) Schedule 1: Withdrawal o f the proceeds o f the grant; (ii)   Schedule 2: Objectives o f
the Project; (iii)Schedule 4: Program Implementation and description o f the project; (iv)
 Schedule 7:KeyPerformance Indicators; and(v) extensiono f project closing date by 12months.



                                         VI    ANALYSIS

 100. The proposed changes do not adversely affect the original economic, financial, techmcal,
 institutional, or social aspects o f the project as appraised. The proposed restructuring will


                                                   22

significantly improve the effectiveness o f the projects by buildingon new knowledge gained in
this rapidly evolving multisectoral and challenging field, as well as lessons learned from
implementation experience, and reviews by QAG and IEG. This is consistent with the principle
o f learningby doing of the MAPapproach.
101. Table 2 (Section IV) shows the changes inthe projects by country. The proposed changes
do not raise the environmentalcategory o fthe project or trigger new safeguard policies.
102. The proposed restructuringdoes not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.




                             VI1 EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

103. As indicated in Table 2, all 8 projects require change in their Project Development
Objectives and 4 o fthemrequire changes intheir keyperformance indicatorsandtargets. This is
based on better understanding o f the epidemic in the countries and the radically changed
implementationenvironment as well as changes inglobal AIDS financing architecture.
104. The Global Monitoring and Evaluation Team (GAMET) o f HDNGA i s the lead team
(designated by UNAIDS co-sponsors') to provide policy, strategic guidance and technical
assistance to all countries in national M&E development, implementation.             GAMET will
continue to provide technical assistance and guidance to the restructured projects with
contributions from MAPprojects.
 105. It is expected that the proposed restructuring will: (a) significantly improve project focus
on more realistic and deliverable objectives, based on the lessons learned inthe country as well
as from other Ahcan country programs; (b) improve institutional arrangements with clearly
definedroles and responsibilities that will support better coordination o f the national HIV/AIDS
program in partnership with other donors; (c) improve hnd utilization in terms o f reallocation
among activities and interventionsthat have greater effectiveness inresponding to the HIV/AIDS
challenges. Reallocation among expenditure categories are not only consistent with the cost
saving policy o f the Bank (OPBP 13.25) but there will be better use o f available fimds for
priority areas that have greater impact on containing the epidemic; and (d) enhance the MAP
project contribution to prioritized nationalHIV/AIDS strategies and action plans.



                               VI11 BENEFITSAND RISKS

 106. The major benefit o f the proposed restructuringwill be to the beneficiaries o f the national
HIV/AIDSprogram supported by IDA financing. The proposed restructuring will make project
 objectives and performance indicators more realistic and realignedwith the nationalpriorities by
considering the new knowledge and lessons learned from implementation.                Through the
restructuring, it is expected that project outcomes will be achieved through better understanding
of the epidemic, with improved service delivery options, and better management o f the available
project resources. Better project performance will enable countries to achieve longer-term goals

* UNHCR,   UNICEF, WFP, UNDP,UNFPA,UNODC, ILO, UNESCO, WHO, andWorld Bank


                                                 23

andresults set out intheir national HIV/AIDS strategic plans, and would benefit those who are
infected and affected by the epidemic through the provision o f prevention, care/treatment and
mitigationintervention.
107. National monitoring and evaluation systems exist in all countries but much needs to be
done inharmonizing national indicators, regular and reliable reporting, to help national decision
makers be more evidence-based in taking action. The HIV/AIDS Scorecard will reduce the
burden on countries in HIV/AIDS reporting, and will be o f benefit to both client countries and
the external community.
108. The proposed restructuring i s expected to make national H N authorities more efficient in
coordinatingnationalresponses, throughthe public andprivate sectors, as well as civil society. It
will also allow national HIV/AIDS authorities to focus on its leadership and coordinating role,
andbecome more strategic inguidingthe national response.
109. A key risk i s the time required to realize the benefits from the effects o f the proposed
restructuring. This risk i s mitigated by the planned intensive and increased support from
HDNGA, ACTafrica and AFTHD. ACTafrica will increase its technical support to country
teams in the areas o f policy and strategic dialogue for prioritized and costed national strategies
and annual plans, assessments and evaluations, and provide direct technical assistance in the
technical areas identified by project teams and continue to support learning and knowledge
sharing from the improvedmonitoring and evaluation.




                                                24

ANNEXES




  25


ANNEX 1-ISSUESPAPER

ImprovingPerformanceofthe Multi-CountryAIDS Program(MAP) inAfrica


1.Introduction
1.   As o f 2006, HIV/AIDS still remains an unprecedented crisis for Afnca. Nearly 25 million
Africans are living with HIV/AIDS, the vast majority o f them adults in the prime o f their
working and parenting lives. In 2005, more than 2 million people died (about 5,000 per day).
The epidemic has erased many o f the development gains o f the past generation and now
threatens to undermine the next. About twelve million African children have been orphaned.
Life expectancy has decreased in many countries, and in the worst-affected countries
dramatically (for example, in Zimbabwe life expectancy for women at birth has dropped to 34
years). AIDS i s costing sub-SaharanAfrican countries with highHNprevalence rates by some
estimates, 1% o f economic growth each year, while imposing a mounting burdenon households,
firms, and the public sector and slowing down efforts to reduce poverty. In 2006, more people
became infected with HIV and more died from AIDS than in any previous year. Despite
increased international efforts to expand access to treatment and lower prices of ARVs, millions
o f Africans with AIDS are not being treated. Unless far more aggressive action i s taken across
the Continent to scale up, improve implementation and sustain current programs, HIV/AIDS will
continue its rapid advance and progressively stall other development efforts for many years to
come (Source: UNAIDS December 2006).
2.   To respond to this development crisis in 1999, the World Bank adopted a strategy to help
combat the growing HIV/AIDSepidemic inAfrica. The strategy focused on increasing advocacy
to increase demand for action against AIDS, expand resources for AIDS programs, strengthen
the Bank's capacity and expand knowledge using the principle o f learning by doing. In
December 2000, the Bank's Board approved a Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP),whose goal
was to dramatically increase access to prevention, care, treatment and prepare countries to deal
with the burden o f HIV/AIDS. The Board authorized a USDSOO million credit from the
InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA)-12 and in2002 the Board subsequently authorized
another USDSOO million from IDA-13 that allowed for grant resources for AIDS programs in
IDA eligible countries. ACTafrica was also established in 2000 to support and coordinate the
Bank's multisectoral response.
3.   At the time, the Bank recognized that mitigating the epidemic was a long-term challenge,
and committed itself to a 12-15 year program o f support, in three phases. Phase 1(MAP 1 and
MAP 2) involved an emergency response in almost every eligible Sub-Saharan country
(supporting 29 countries and four regional programs) with IDA credits and grants totaling about
USD1.32 billion. The guiding principle o f the first phase was learningby doing and focused on
advocacy and institutional building. Phase 2 would involve applying lessons learned and
mainstreamingo f interventions that provedmost effective, continued expansion o f coverage, and
addressing implementation issues. Phase 3 would begin as the number o f new infections
declined and wouldhave a sharp focus onprevention.




                                               26

4.   The World Bank portfolio on HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa is relatively young and
includes significant IDA commitments (USD1.25 billion) available to support the explicit
objective to place HIV/AIDS at the center o f the development agenda and mainstream it in all
aspects o f the work in Africa and in all channels o f dialogue. The goal was to help clients
intensify and expand their multisectoral national responses to factor HIV/AIDS into policies and
projects. HIV/AIDS was established as a corporate priority and aprimary partnership issue.
5.   Since 2000, the Bank's Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa (MAP) has been the
mainstay o f emergency responsesto the needs o f IDA countries facing the HIV/AIDS challenge.
MAP projects were approved in almost every IDA country in Sub-Saharan Africa with credits
totaling USD1.25 billion in 29 countries and four sub-regional programs, and about 70% o f the
resources have been disbursed to date. The M A P approach has been to support national AIDS
strategies, a national coordinating entity and a consolidated monitoring and evaluation system,
withresources anchored ina demand-driven approach to prevention, care, support andtreatment,
accessible byboth the public sector and civil society.


2. ChangingEnvironment
6.       Since the M A P was initiated in 2000, major changes have taken place in the overall
environment for addressing the AIDS epidemic in Africa. Major new global funding has been
committed by the Global Fundfor AIDS, Tuberculosis andMalaria (GFATM), the U S PEPFAR
initiative, private foundations, and the private sector. Domestic resources from governments for
AIDS programs have also increased. The G8 and countries committed to universal access to
AIDS services in2005 and an international financing facility to procure AIDS, TB and Malaria
drugs (UNITAID) has recently been established. There i s intense focus to scale up treatment
with growing concerns on strengthening health service delivery in both the public and private
sectors as well as ensuringsustainable financing - a life long commitment to millions already on
treatment.    Information on the epidemiology of the disease and behaviors i s growing and
methodologies are improving but data on coverage and impact o f the interventions i s still
inadequate. Donor coordinationremains a major challenge. UNAIDS has promulgated the Three
Ones concept, to improve donor collaboration but much more needs to be done to achieve
harmonization. Lessons o f experience on effective interventions are emerging from the M A P
program and others. The changing environment and lessons o f experience have implications for
MAPandfor the World Bank's future response. To better reflect these issues, the Africaregion
is updating its 1999 HIV/AIDSstrategy and developing an Africa AIDS Agenda for Action for
2007-2011 which will align itself to the Africa Action Plan (AAP), the Global HIV/AIDS
Program of Action, the Africa Health, Nutrition and Population (HNP) Strategy and the global
HNP strategy underpreparation.


3. ImplementationChallenges
7.       In2004, ACTafnca initiated an Interim Review of MAP to review the validity of the
M A P approach, highlight progress made, the suitability o f interventions and to identify lessons
learned. The review concluded that the MAP objectives were still appropriate, highlighted
implementation challenges and recommended that the MAP needed to become more strategic,
collaborative, and evidence-based. In 2005, OED (aka IEG) conducted a separate independent



                                                 27

assessment o f the Bank's global HIV assistance to examine the assumptions, design and
implementation o f 24 country level AIDS projects. The OED report recommended a focus on
capacity building, developing strong national and sub-national institutions, investing strategically
inpublic goods andactivitieslikelyto havethe largest impact, creatingincentives for monitoring
and evaluation, and using local evidence to improve performance. From these assessments, the
Committee onDevelopment Effectiveness (CODE) has recognizedthe achievements made inthe
HIV (MAP)programs andapproved key recommendations for further improvementinall future
HIV operations. CODE reaffirmedthe Bank's role, together with other development partners, in
responding to the complex and pressing issue o f HIV/AIDS, the need for bold, innovative, and
flexible responses, and also reconfirmed the need for a multisectoral approach to this
development challenge.
8.       Table A2 provides a brief overview o fthe key recommendations from the MAP Interim
Review report (October 2004), OEDIIEG Reportg, and CODE" response and actions taken by
the Africa region.
                              TableA2 Overviewofthe KeyRecommendations
                                             -

                     Recornmendations                                      Measures undertakenby the Africa repion

(i)poverty
      Integrate HIV/AIDS indevelopment planning,                    IBRDandWBIincollaboration withUNDPhave held
                reductionstrategies, budget allocation              two regional workshops to buildcapacity o f country
      strategies and mainstream inthe country assistance            officials to integrate HIV/AIDS inPRSPs, MTEFS.
      strategies                                                    ACTafiica will also continue to ensure that HIV/AIDS
                                                                    i s sufficientlv incomorated inthe CAS.

(ii)Support     the development o fprioritized, nationally          The Bank and other partners ( U N A I D S and UNDP)
      owned strategies with a nuanced understanding o f             have rolled out the AIDS Strategy and Action Planning
      the country epidemic, identificationof cultural and           (ASAP'') program to provide direct technical support to
      social factors contributing to the spread, and assist         countries on a demand-driven basis inreviewing and
      governments to be selective and prioritize activities         producing evidence-based, prioritized, and costed
      that achieve the greatest impact.                             strategies and annual programs.

(iii)Adopttargetedapproachinallnextgeneration                       Adopted as a criteria for all second generation projects.
      projects inlow prevalence countries.                          Bank and UNAIDS collaborated on a regional
                                                                    conference o ntargeting vulnerable groups. ACTafrica is
                                                                    also assessingthe effectiveness of goodpractices
                                                                    targeting vulnerable groups.

(iv) Improve governance and accountability measures                 The regioncontinues to buildcapacity on improved
      withinprojects to mitigate misuse o fproject funds            fiduciary management and has developed a Guidance
      and ensure that funds are utilized for the intended           Note on Disbursement inHIVIAIDS Projects to assist in
      beneficiaries.                                                determining the appropriate fiduciary steps for various
                                                                    levels.

                                                                    ACTafrica is initiating a study o n governance and
                                                                     anticorruption practices at the community level by
                                                                     engaging grassroots level women groups inseveral
                                                                     countries and will develop guidelines for civil society
                                                                     organizations and local government authorities in
                                                                     addressing governance and corruption.

9 ''Committing to Results:Improvingthe Effectiveness of HIV/AIDSAssistance -An OED Evaluationof the World Bank's Assistance for
HIV/AIDSControl," July 2005.
 lo Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE), Chairman's Summary, Appendix Mto OED/IEG Report
 'I UNAIDShasraisedUS$5milliontofinancetheseactivities,whichincludeworkshops anddirectassistancefromtheBankandUNDP.



                                                                28

                     Recommendations                                 Measures undertaken by the Africa region

 (v)   Ensurethe development o fa common, functioning          3AMET12has significantly increasedtheir efforts to
       M&Esystem at country levelworking with other            help countries buildboth their clinical and non-clinical
       partners, develop clear criteria and outcome            indicators and data collection mechanisms, and all
       indicators for improved data collection, and            repeater MAPSinclude more attention and financing for
       improve the evidence-base for decision-makers           scaling up M&Eactivities inpartnership with UNAIDS
       through local capacity building and rigorous            andother donors. OngoingMAPoperations are also
'      analytic work.                                          providing increased financing for M&Eimplementation.
                                                               GAMET and ACTuJFicu developed a generic inOctober
                                                               2006.

 (vi) Improve donor coordination andharmonization              A Global Task Team (GTT) comprisingkeyUN
       efforts to avoid duplication of efforts with the        agencies and development partners agreed on a division
       multitudeofactors.                                      o f labor for all agencies that countries can use in
                                                               identifying technical support needs. Several countries
                                                               have adoptedjoint annual reviews to encourage more
                                                               harmonization o f activities.

 (vii) Encourageperformance-based disbursements.               O n going discussions with TTLs on methods for
                                                               integrating tlus into HIV projects without hindering
                                                               access to services.

 (viii) Continue to fully support the community response,      Civil Society organizations are more actively involved
        which is an important stakeholder group, by            than before inHIV activities. The Africa region plans to
        engaging them inthe design o f interventions and       carry out a situation analysis o f CS engagement.
       improved procedures for financing but also evaluate     ACTafrica hosted a consultation with civil society
        the effectiveness o f the community response.          representatives f i o m all MAPcountries to brainstorm
                                                               the roles, responsibilities and partnerships o f CSO in
                                                               responding to HIV. These recommendations are being
                                                               incorporated inthe revision o f the Bank strategy for
                                                               HIV/AIDS inAfrica (2007-2011).

 (ix) Prioritizedmulti-sectoral approachto respondto the       MAPScontinue to use the multisectoralapproach and
        complexity o f HIV as a broad development              address HIV/AIDS as a broad development issue.
        challenge and focus on sectors that have the           ACTafrica will ensure that this continues to be reflected
        greatest potential impact such as health, education,   inthe CASs. Secondgeneration MAPSwill focus on
        transport, military and others depending o n the       sectors with the greatest potential within each country
        country context                                        setting.

 (x)    Clarify the role ofthe Ministryo f Healthto ensure     MOHi s engaged inall MAPprojects as evident from
        that they are a principal partner inthe national       the MOHbeingthe second largest beneficiary o f MAP
        response and buildMOH capacity while continuing        financing after the civil society component. All next
        to work with other sectors.                            generation MAPprojects will clarify the role and
c-^                                                            responsibilities o f MOH as well as address issues
                                                               relatedto strengthening health systems that canbe
                                                               integrated into HIV projects.

 (xi) Ensure consistency withBank commitments to               The Bank i s fully engaged with the GTT and will
        other global initiatives and partners and improve       continue its close partnership with UNAIDS. The Bank
        donor collaboration.                                   has also taken the lead incollaborating with the Global
                                                               Fund,PEPFAR, and other development partners and
                                                               held a meeting inJanuary 2006 to improve
                                                                coordination.




    Global AIDS MonitoringandEvaluationTeam(GAMET), hostedby the Bank onbehalfof the Bank and UNAIDS.



                                                            29

9. Financial and Procurement Challenges. MAP projects faced various fiduciary challenges,
these included: (i)use o f old Bank procurement guidelines that limited aggregate amounts for the
procurement of goods and services; (ii) prior review thresholds; (iii) savings in some
                                           low                               cost
expenditure categories due to the availability o f additional financing from other donors such as
GFATM and underutilization o f funds; (iv) need for targeting project funds to prioritized
interventions and beneficiaries; (v) increased need to invest in capacity development o f public
sector and civil society organizations to deliver results; (vi) use of old Country Financing
Parameters; (vii) decentralization o f the nation HIV/AIDS responses (fiduciary responsibilities)
to regionddistricts; (viii) need to adjust cost estimates due to government decision to increase
provision of free treatment; (ix) promotion of cash transfers to communities that are involved in the
development of HIV/AIDSprograms inrelation with actions undertaken under the ongoing Community
Driven DevelopmentProject; and (x) slow disbursements due to cumbersome procedures to finance
community subprojects from both public sector and civil society, especially at the community
level and insufficient capacity to manage the procurement plan;


4. Key Recommendations from IEGreviews of ICRs

Ethiopia
        The potential benefits of fast-track project preparation, even in a situation o f extreme
        crisis, are likely to be outweighed by the costs o f neglecting careful and rigorous
        preparation activities. More intensive staffing and supervision, with focus on content as
        well as process, are required for success in a rapidly prepared, `learning-by-doing'
        project.
        Monitoring and evaluation activities must assume high priority if a project i s to achieve
        demonstrable impact, especially inthe context of a "learning by doing approach." Inthe
        absence o f effective M&E, it i s unclear how inputs are translating into outputs and
        outcomes, and interventions cannot be adjusted to maximize effectiveness and impact
        over time.
        Care must be exercised inthe establishment o f a coordinating institution for the response
        to HIV/AIDS. The existence o f such an institution does not guarantee a multisectoral
        response, nor does it guarantee a coordinated, prioritized, mainstreamed response.
Eritrea
        "Learning-by-doing" cannot be accomplished ina haphazard manner, but instead requires
        careful and specific planning and supervision. Simply creating a dedicated M&E
        component does not create an incentive to do it. For a project in which pre-existing
        infrastructure and human resources are lacking,            a very specific design and
        implementationplan for M&E i s even more critical than usual.
        While the concept o f integration across disease areas i s sound, the successful
        implementation o f that concept depends on strong central management o f component
        activities, careful monitoring, and effective incentives for integration. Otherwise,
        resources will be wasted on unnecessary duplication o f activity, and data collection and
        programmatic activity will remaintrapped intraditional "silos."




                                                 30

         Behavior change communication and IEC, even when successkl in changing knowledge
         and attitudes, does not necessarily lead to behavior change. Careful evaluation of BCC
         activities, includingthe collection o f comprehensive baseline data, i s essential.
         Community ownership i s important, but it cannot be permitted to drive the direction o f
         programactivities. Inthis case, the preference o f community facilitators for interventions
         against malaria crowded out the project's multi-disease, multi-sectoral approach. On the
         other hand, carefully crafted community interventions can use a population's concern for
         one disease (malaria in this case) as an entree to programs targeted at other areas
         (HIV/AIDS).
Ghana
          The MAP "learning by doing strategy" cannot be realizedinthe absence of well-designed
         monitoring and evaluationactivities andthe incentives to implement them.

          There i s an urgent need to strengthen the focus on strategic management o f the epidemic
          andtailor the multisectoral approachto Ghana's concentrated epidemic.
          HIV prevalence, an indicator of the scope of the epidemic, should not be considered a
          measure o f success o fprevention efforts.

          Design o f an HIV/AIDS project without M o H involvement and mandate can undermine
         bothprocess and results.
          The financing o f salaries through donor funds should be considered with cautionwhere it
          concerns the financing o f institutions that need continued and sustainable financing
          beyond the scope o f projects.
5. Portfolio Performance 2001-2006
9.        From FYOl to FY05, at-riskI3HIV projects within the HNP sector board increased from
25% to about 52%. Significant increases were caused by issues with M&E, slow disbursements,
procurement performance, and project management. These areas were the HIV portfolio's key
challenges in the initial years o f MAP.
The regional management, task teams,                   I                    HlVlAlDS portfolio, FY97-07"
AFTQf,          ACTafrica        and      GAMET
undertook several key steps to address the
implementation challenges.              ACTafrica                                                                ACtNe
                                                                                                                 Ropcts
and HDNGA intensified their support                                                                            II Ropcts

through technical assistance, additional                                                                         atllsk


TA financing, andregionalworkshops and
technical consultations.           These efforts             q4G      q4@ +4@  p'  k4@ *4Q'        ,4Q*
resulted in a significant decline in overall                                                            peQ
                                                                                                          .*

at-risk projects from 52% in FY05 to 16% by FY07. Note that exogenous flags (Country
Environment and Country Record flags) have significantly affected the HIV portfolio. If these
flags are not considered in the HIV portfolio, the portfolio performance jumps to above 88%
satisfactory level.


'3 "At-risk ratings provide a betterpicture of the current state of theportfolio than IP/DO rating taken in isolation,
because they are more comprehensive andprovide an early warning ofpotential failures and their causes", QAG
ARPP FY06


                                                           31

                                                                                           --~-2007
                                                                                               ---   1
                                                                                                  32
Net ComrnAmt                                                                                       0
% A t Risk                                                                                         6
% Potential                   0          21         11          12          23          12         6
% Eff Dly                     0           7                                  0          6 -        6
% Safeguards                  0           0         210       _-15
                                                                 0           6          18        13
                                                            I




% M&E                        25          14           0         12          26          15         9
% Lglcov                       0          0           0                     13          3          3
%Slow Disb                     0-  -      0           5         '50          3          0          0
% Proc Prob                  25          14           0         19          13          3          3
% Mgt Prob                  25.0        7.1         0.0        11.5        16.1       12.1        9.4
% Ctry Env                   25          43         42          38          35          33        34
% Ctry Record                75          57         58          58          48    "    48         50
% Long-Term                    0          7           5          4           3          6           6
% Gldn Flag                    0          0           0           0          0          6           6
% Fin Mgmt                   0.0         0.0        0.0         3.8         9.7        9.1        3.1
% Cntrpt Fndg                0.0         0.0        0.0         3.8        19.4        9.1        9.4


Ongoing efforts to improve portfolio performance

     0    Umbrella restructuring of all HIVprojectsfor improved performance: InApril 2006, the
         region reviewed all active HIV projects in collaboration with AFTHD, LEGAF, and
         HDNGA to identify projects that needed restructuring to incorporate recommendations.
         A technical consultation with all TTLs was heldinNairobi on the challenges o f including
         HIV prevalence in project development objectives and key performance indicators,
         institutional challenges in meeting objectives, and an initial draft generic results
         framework was shared. InAugust 2006, the region established a core team to review and
         lead the work on restructuring (retrofitting) projects for improved performance. Led by
         ACTafiica and AFTHD, the core team includes, LEGAF, LOA, HDNGA (GAMET) and
         AFTRL. The core group developed and sent to all task teams a Restructuring
         Questionnaire (prepared within the framework o f new guidelines o f restructuring
         projects). AFTHD and ACTafiica engaged SECBO and OPCIL in clarifying the process
         for umbrella restructuring considering that this would be a unique exercise that involves
         one theme (HIV) engaging several countries.

     0   Developing a Generic Results Framework (GRF): In October 2006, the region and
         HDNGA (GAMET) finalized a Generic Results Framework (GRF) for all HIV projects
         that addressed: (a) Tier 1 and 2 indicators, for country and Bank needs respectively; (b)
         IDA14 and UNGASS indicators; (c) indicators for the Afiica Action Plan.                The
         development o f the GRF was based on three key principles: (a) there i s a mechanism
         available in all countries to report on the indicators; (b) indicators are agreed upon with
         all development partners; and (c) indicators canprovide aggregate results for Afr-ica.
         Additional supervision support: AFTQK established an Escrow account in 2005 to
         support problem projects and all HIV projects are encouraged to utilize this fund to
         address challenges.
         Improving quality at entry: The region focused on improving quality at entry of all
         second generation HIV projects (and QERs) by adopting CODE recommendations as
         access criteria to the next generation HIV projects, including: (a) financial gap analysis




                                                  32

        for the country; (b) addressing lessons learned from the first generation project; and (c)
        clarifying objectives and developing results framework.
        IntensiJied technical assistance: As an ongoing effort, ACTahca has intensified its
        technical assistanceto operations by supporting project supervision, portfolio monitoring,
        ISRreviews andextending bothfinancial andtechnical support to problemprojects.
        Governance and anticorruption: The region is establishing a task force on governance
        and anticorruption to develop an appropriate review methodology, selection criteria o f
        projects,  implement the diagnostic reviews and develop recommendations in
        collaboration with INT. ACTafiica i s working closely with the Kenya team to use
        lessons of experience.   ACTafrica i s also preparing a proposal to request an IDF grant
        and engage grassroots level community groups to assess governance and anticorruption
        practices from the communitypoint o fview, develop guidelines andrecommendations.
10.     It is expected that the Africa region's ongoing efforts to improve portfolio performance
including the     umbrella restructuring initiative would comprehensively address the
recommendations of the Interim Review (2004), IEG assessment (2005) and CODE
recommendation (2005) andresult in:
      i. SignificantlyimprovingtheportfolioperformancebyrevisingPDOsandKPIs as
            recommended by the evaluations.         This would also reduce the net disconnect

      ..    difference o f IEGrating and final ISRs;

     11.    Improved results focus by adapting Generic Results Framework (retrofitting)
            enabling the region to report on globally agreed indicators for which reporting
            mechanisms exist at the country level. This would also enable the region to report on
            aggregate progress in the region (as for IDA requirements). The second major
            advantage would be that the donor support to M&E would be more effective -
            considering that all would be supporting already agreed indicators and the reporting
            mechanism. This would result in more impact evaluations by retrofitting impact
            assessments in ongoing operations and in new projects under preparation (supported
            byAFTRL andHDNVP ChiefEconomist);
    iii. Improvedharmonizationandresourceutilizationatthecountrylevel;and
     iv.    Integrated governance and anticorruption actions and guidance for all projects.
Other Challenges that need to be urgently addressed
      i. Strengtheningof HealthSystems. AlthoughMAPShavestrengthenedhealthsystems
            in various countries to build capacity of MOH, addressed human resources issues,
            strengthened laboratory infrastructure, strengthened fiduciary, procurement and
            program management, improved supply chains, strengthened drug distribution
            systems, the results have been mixedand much more needs to be done to strengthen
            the healthcomponents of the MAP andHealth SWAPS.
     ii.    More Explicit Integration between HIUAIDS and TB, Reproductive Health, and
            Nutrition services

               Better integration o f HIV activities with TB (due to the growing co-infection and
               emerging XDR TB). A WHO secondeei s beingrecruitedto assist inthis area.



                                                  33

        0  Reproductivehealth, integrationwith HIV services would improve prevention and
           greatly improve the coverage and access o f PMTCT care and support, as well as
           helping to reduce stigma for women who would not be labeled as HIV-infected
           when attendingANC services.

        0  Nutrition i s a critical aspect o f successful HIV treatment and care and support.
           Where possible, nutrition support should be included particularly for people on
           ART to ensure the efficacy of the treatment and limit the development of drug
           resistance.
   iii. SpeciJicattention to Youth, Women and Gender issues

        0  Gender inequalities fuel the spread o f HIV/AIDS. 57% o f women are infected in
           Africa and the majority are young women aged 15-24. Interventions to address
           gender inequality should be included inMAP projects. Reversalo f HIV infections
           inAfrica cannot occur without the engagement of males inthe HIV response so
           scaling up male-involved activities and interventions would also be critical.
           The 2006 World Development Report emphasizes the importance of addressing
           high risk behaviors o f youth and identifies HIV/AIDS as a major risk to the
           formation o f human capital in Africa. MAPSshould be highly responsive to
           addressing high-risk youth and scaling up the education sector programs for in-
           school and out-of-school youth.
Other RegionalIssues
     i. Supportingpublicgoodandsustainingtheresponsetocrossborderissues: Several
        regional projects that address cross border issues have been supported through IDA
         13 grants. Many will be ending soon so how do we continue to support regional
        public goods?
    ..
    11. Middle income countries: Middle income countries in southern Africa are now the
        epicenter o f the epidemic and can potentially dilute efforts in neighboring IDA
        countries because o f labor mobility etc. Our response has been mainly through IDFs
        and trust funds. We are exploring a buy down arrangement for Botswana.         How do
        we further scale up our support inthese countries?




                                              34

ANNEX 2 -THEHIV/AIDSRESULTS                 SCORECARD

Africa Action Plan and IDA Reporting

1.   The HIV/AIDS Results Scorecard. The Region has analyzed all HIV/AIDS projects and
developed a toolkit to support the countries in preparing their project specific Results
Framework. This toolkit, a Generic Results Framework (GRF),has been discussed and shared
with the countries, other development partners, and project Task Teams. The GRF i s based on:
(i) indicatorsselected&omgloballyagreedHIVindicatorsonprevention,care,treatmentand
   the
mitigation required by UNGASS, MDG, IDA; (ii)         several countries have the capacity to report
on the indicators; and (iii)
                           the OECD's Paris Declarationon harmonizationandminimizing data
requirements. The GRF proposes indicators for both groups o f countries where the epidemic has
reached the general population and for the countries where it i s still within the concentrated
populations. All GRF indicators are not mandatory. The GRF i s a tool for task teams to use as a
basis when developing or updatingproject's specific results framework
2.    A small set of mandatory indicators have, however, been extracted from the GRF to
measure the overall progress with the HIV response to which the World Bank contributed inthe
Afhca region. The Scorecard will therefore be used to measure progress under the Afnca
Action Plan as well as on IDA financing. The Scorecard contains both indicators for measuring
long term results at the regional level, and indicators for measuring results to which specific
Bank-fundedHIV assistance projects have contributed. Two types data sources will be used to
determine the values o f the two types o f scorecard indicators on an annual basis: (i)   regional
level data will be extracted from internationalreports and verified data sources with the support
o f GAMET and UNAIDS; (ii)      project level data will need to be reported by all HIV projects
usingtheproject ISRs; andbyACTahca through its annual MAPquestionnaire.
3.    Adopting the scorecard inall ongoing and future HIV operations will reduce the burden on
the countries and the task teams interms o f reporting progress. It will also enable the region to
report on the aggregate achievements under IDA financing. The indicators, when fully adopted
in all ongoing and future HIV operations, would be a major step towards achieving
harmonization and alignment on M&E at the country, regional and global levels. These
indicators are selected from globally agreed UNGASS, MDG and IDA indicators and are based
on reporting capacities o f the countries, availability o f baseline data and agreement o f our key
partners such as UNAIDS and withm the OECD's Paris declaration on harmonization and
minimizing data requirements.
4.    The indicators inthe Scorecard have been harmonized, where possible, with the indicator
sets of other major partners in HIV/AIDS (US government's PEPFAR indicators and the Global
Fund'slist o f"Top Ten" indicators).
5.    Neither the GRF indicators nor the Scorecard indicators are based on attribution, but rather
on contribution. The scorecard and GRF therefore does not suggest that a separate World Bank
HIV M&E system is requiredfor a project; on the contrary, it suggests that indicator data from
the national HIV M&E framework be reportedto the World Bank on a regular basis.
6.    Table A.l presents the HIV Scorecard for the Afhca Region. Indicators 4 to 13 in the
Scorecard i s mandatory for all for all ongoing, pipeline and future HIV operations inthe region
to report on through the ISRs.


                                                35

7.   Key benefits of the Scorecard includes: (a) Compliance with the Paris Declaration (to
reduce burden o n the countries); (b) Harmonization with UNAIDS (UNGASS) and other key
financers (such as Global Fund and PEPFAR in reporting on HIV/AIDS; (c) Supporting
Regional IDA financing and the A h c a Action Plan; and (d) Using existing country capacities in
data collectionandreporting.

8.   The Scorecard data will be collected through the following arrangements (per Africa
Action Plan's 6 standard reporting sections:


         I A                                              H o w data will be collected?

             -Demographics

           B-Development challenge indicators   UNAIDS and WHO global reports

           C -Intermediate results indicators   UNAIDS and WHO global reports

           D-Output indicators                  Annual ACTafrica M A P questionnaire and ISRS

           E-Financingindicators                Client Connection, donor websites and their focal points


9.   The responsibility to report the Scorecard will be on: (a) All country project teams; (b)
GAMET will provide technical assistanceto the Project teams; (c) GAMET and ACTafvica will
gather data from the sources identified above, as well as from UNAIDS and update the A h c a
Action Planprogress reporting system; (d) TTLs needto assure that the Scorecard i s agreed upon
with their counterpart, with support from ACTahca and GAMET. GAMET will provide
technical support to country project teams and to TTLs in getting agreement with counterparts,
and ACTafrica will provide support inintegratingthe Scorecard into the Bank system.




                                                36

                                   Table A1- The HIV/AIDS Results Scorecard

Note:The Africa regionHIV scorecard uses the newUNGASS wordinginline withthe new 2008
UNGASS rmidelines (released Ami1 2007).




    combination thera




                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                     I
10. Male and female condoms distributed                                              I World Bank       INumber          ISR(bornWunuyM~Esystrm)
                                                                                                                                            smW
    FBO)                                                                                                  Amount         ISR (Gornmuntly M&Esystem)

12. Public sector organizations supported                                              World Bank         Number         ISR (born muntlyM&Esystem)
                                                                                     I                  I xmounr      I  IbK (earnwunuyM&Eswan)
                                                                                                        I             I




    15a. Country commitmentsfor HIVAIDS, USDmillion




Notes:
A:  All of the indicatorsinthe scorecard are based on the latest internationalthinkinginterms o f indicator wording. As there are currently
    efforts underway to harmonize indicators, the indicators in the scorecard may be slightly revised in2008, when the harmonizationprocess
    will be complete.
B: Detailedindicatordefinitions will bereleased once the global indicatorregistryhasbeendeveloped
C:  Projects are only required to report on indicators 9 to 13.




                                                                       37

             r-          o!
            d             Y-
                         N   2m


    z     x
     m          2  2      8
          N      N  N     d.




      c?
      aJ 8   8   8  8     8  8

      0   0  8

      8N                  2m 8
                             I-



                          -
       m                  m
      8                   m
      5m                  a,   .-mC8c
                          $
                          C


      Lc
      0                   Lc
                          0  tm0
I
EcE   c
      C                   I c
      a,                  c    c
       E
       E                  EE   EE
a,
5                         :
(3    89                  c3 89
m     m      m            m    m


7
.r                        I-   co
                          s2
0                         0    0
c!                        0    0

c
7                              3e
7                              Q,


7                    co   I-   co
Y-                  0     0    0
2                         s2
O                   0     0    0

c
7                              c!
                               0
                               m
7                   3$
0                              55
                    0     0    0



d
0     co            0     N
0     0             0     0    d
N     0
      N             0
                    N     0
                          N    0
                               N




                               2
                               0
                               7
                               I-
                               O
                               a

                               .-m
                               C
                               F2
                                m

         2
         hl




         n!
         r
         hl




         2
         r




         n!
         r
         r




2w 2w




  .-9
  -3
   c     .-9
   m     -
         I
         m
   5     5
         3

  0      0

_.




      0
      d

T

