                                              Documentof

                                            The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                   ReportNo: 28831




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ON A

                                         PROPOSEDGRANT

         INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR4.7 MILLION(US$7.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU

                                                 FORA

                     HIV/AIDS GLOBALMITIGATION SUPPORTPROJECT

                                             May 12,2004




Environmental,Ruraland Social DevelopmentWest Africa
CountryDepartment 14
Africa RegionalOffice



This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipientsonly in the performanceof their
officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate EffectiveMarch31,2004)


                                        CurrencyUnit = FrancCFA
                                          FCFA 1,000  = US$1.93
                                             US$l.OO  = SDR0.67

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                           January 1  - December31

                                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACTafrica       AIDS CampaignTeam for Africa
ART             Anti-Retroviral Treatment
CBO             Community-BasedOrganizations
FMS             FinancialManagementSystem
GFATM           GlobalFundto fight HIVIAIDS, Tuberculosis, andMalaria
IHN             IntegratedHealthNetwork
ISS             Interim Support Strategy
MAP             Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
M&ES            Monitoring and EvaluationSystem
MDA             Ministries,Departments, and Agencies
MTCT            Motherto Child Transmission
MWMP            MedicalWaste ManagementPlan
NAC             NationalAIDS Council
NAS             NationalAIDS Secretariat
NGO             Non-Governmental Agency
01              OpportunisticInfection
PLWHA           PersonsLiving With HIV/AIDS
PMU             Project ManagementUnit
PSRDP           PrivateSector Rehabilitationand Development Project
RC              RegionalCommittee
SNP             Strategic NationalPlan
STI             Sexually Transmitted Infection
VCT             Voluntary Counselingand Testing




                                     Vice President:       Callisto Madavo
                                   Country Director:       John Mclntire
                                    Sector Manager:        Mary Barton-Dock
                                 Task Team Leader:         Christian Fauliau




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
           GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT

                                             Table of Contents

          A. Strategic Context andRationale                                           1
             1. Country and Sector Background                                         1
             2. Rationale for Bank's Involvement                                      2
             3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes              3

          B. Project Description                                                      4
             1. Lending instrument                                                    4
             2. Project development objectives andkey indicators                      4
             3. Project Components                                                    5
             4. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                     8
             5. Altematives considered and reasons for rejection                      9

          C. Implementation                                                           9
             1. Partnership arrangements                                              9
             2. Institutional arrangements                                            9
             3. Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomes/results                        10
             4. Sustainability                                                       10
             5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects                    11
             6. Grant effectiveness conditions and covenants                         12

          D. Appraisal Summary                                                       12
             1. Economic and financial analyses                                      12
             2. Technical                                                            13
             3. Fiduciary                                                            13
             4. Social                                                               15
             5. Environment                                                          15
             6. Safeguard policies                                                   15
             7. Policy exceptions and readiness                                      15

          Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                          17
          Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies 22
          Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring                                    23
          Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                                      26
          Annex 5: Project Costs                                                     35
          Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                                        36
          Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                46
          Annex 8: Procurement                                                       55
          Annex 9: Monitoring and Evaluation                                         63
          Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues                                          68
          Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                              69
          Annex 12: Orphan Support                                                   71

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Annex 13: Project Supervision Strategy     72
Annex 14: Documents inthe ProjectFile      76
Annex 15: Statement ofLoans and Credits    77
Annex 16: Country at a Glance              79

                                          GUINEA-BISSA U

                              HIV/AIDS Global MitigationSupportProject

                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                        Africa Regional Office

                                                ESSD




     [ 7 Loan   [ 3 Credit   [XI Grant [ ] Guarantee  [] Other:
     For Loans/Credits/Others:
     Total Bank financing (US$m.): SDR 4.7 million (US$7.0 million equivalent)




I Remonsible      anencv:                                                           I

     FY                 2005          2006          2007         2008
     Annual               1.5         2.0           2.0            1.5




I                                                                         oYes XNo
 ::e       these beenapproved by Bank management?                         oYes  oNo

Project development objective Re$ PADB.2, TechnicalAnna 3
The project will support the medium-termstrategy of the Government to expand and
acceleratethe nationalresponse to HIV/AIDS by: (i)    reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS
infection; (ii)
              increasing access to treatment for STIs andHIV/AIDS; and (iii) decreasing
the socio-economic impacts of HIV/AIDS at the individual, household, andcommunity
levels.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a,
TechnicalAnnex 4
1. Community and Civil Society Initiatives, and Capacity Building, support to social
mobilization and community level responses to HIV/AIDS

2. Government MultiSector Response, fundto scale up and strengthenprevention, care,
support and mitigationof the social andeconomic impact ofHIV/AIDS through
programdactivities ofthe public sector.

3, InstitutionalDevelopment for ProgramManagement, support to NationalAIDS
CommitteeNational AIDS Secretariatto managethe program.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environmental Assessment (Medical Waste Management Plan)
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Board presentation:
N.A.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
        Adoption of: (i) accounting and financial management system for the project;
                          an
        and (ii)the project implementation manual (including specific manuals for
        financial management and accounting, procurement andM&E);
        Each Public Sector Organization (in particular Ministry of Health, Ministry of
        Education, Ministry of Defense, Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Livestock,
        and the State Secretariat of Youth Culture and Sports) have presentedaction plans
        for HIV/AIDS for the first year of project implementation, in form and substance
        satisfactory to the Association;
        The Government has appointed anindependent auditor; and
        All technical staff ofNAS havebeen appointed.

Covenantsapplicable to project implementation:
N.A.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and Sector Background

According to the most recent United Nations' Human Development Index, Guinea-
Bissau i s one of the world's poorest countries, and was ranked 156thout o f 162 countries
in2001. The poverty rate in2002 was estimated at 80 percent ofthe total populationand
the growth domestic product (GDP) at around US$250 million with GDP per capita over
the period 1997-2000 averaging US$l95 per annum.
Guinea-Bissau became independent from Portuguese rule following a liberation struggle
from 1963-1974. The eruption of an armed conflict in 1998-1999 brought to an end
progress that had been made ineconomic development inGuinea-Bissau inthe early 90s.
The conflict reduced real GDP by 28 percent and agricultural production by 17 percent.
Much o f the physical infrastructure was severely damaged. Fiscal problems have
hampered the implementationof all publicly financed programs, including activities to
fight HIV/AIDS.
Access to modern healthcare i s limited and the health system i s weak with one central
hospital, four regional hospitals, and a patchwork o f about 135 health centers and health
posts o f varying quality. Much o f the rural population have no or limited access to
modernhealth care and use the services o ftraditional healers.
Availability of financial resources remains a serious problem. Health services, which are
crucial for HIV/AIDS mitigation, are in disarray and will take a long time to recover
given the poor state of the physical infrastructure. The displacement o f people fuels
transmission rates, which have increased following the civil war, especially among the
under 30 age group.
Some limited actions to prevent HIV/AIDS and mitigate its impact are being carried out
by a few NGOs. However, these NGOs are motivated only by goodwill and donor
support has beenweak.
There are no comprehensive andreliable HIV statistics. Available data from the Ministry
o f Health show that from 1994 to 1996, there were between 600 to 900 new cases per
year, and 1101 in 1999. The disease i s continuing to spread mostly along the main
transportation axes from Bissau to Bafata, Gabu, and Cacheu. According to the 2001
WHO EPMODEL calculations, health centers were only capturing around 16 percent of
estimated cases. It i s projected that inthe next years HIV-1 would infect 24 to 40 persons
daily, while HIV-2 rates would continue to decline.
The Government's response: The importance o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic is clear to the
Government, which notes that "further evolution of this epidemic would be disastrous for
the country's development" and that "AIDS i s not a problem pertaining to the health
sector alone, it i s also a social problem o f national and global proportions, which requires
alerting society more forcefully about the current epidemic inthe country and mobilizing
support from all partners to intensify the fight against the disease".




                                                1

In a difficult environment during the last two years, the national team supported by
donors has completed a Strategic National Plan (SNP) and a National Program for SNP
implementation. The Government has also confirmed its commitment to a decentralized
participatory approach, a multi-sectoral strategy, and a reliable and fully transparent
financing system. Each o fthese elements are crucial to buildingan efficient Project.

2. Rationale for Bank's Involvement

The Bank addresses HIV/AIDS as a developmental issue. The September 1999 launch o f
the Bank's regional AIDS strategy, Intensifiing Action Against HIUAIDS inAfrica, was
well received by governments, private sector, and donors. Through the Bank's Global
HIV/AIDS Unit and the regional AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTufrica),
UNAIDS, and other partnerships, the Bank is well positioned to contribute its regional
experience to the project.
The Government has requested access to IDA resources within the framework o f the first
phase o f the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region. Guinea-
Bissau i s eligible for MAP funding and has satisfied the four eligibility criteria as
follows:
        Guinea-Bissau already has a coherent national strategy and has developed a
        comprehensive medium-term, multi-sectoral plan in a participatory manner with
        all concerned stakeholders;
        It has created a National HIV/AIDS Council chaired by the Prime Minister with
        representation from Government (one-third), civil society (one-third) and the
        private sector (one-third);
        The Government has agreed to implementation procedures that would help
        expedite project implementation and outsource project implementation. Given the
        post-conflict status o f Guinea-Bissau key implementation aspects cannot be
        outsourced to one or more private firms as such capacity does not exist in-country
        at this time and obtaining this from abroad would not be cost-effective. For other
        IDA projects this has meant establishing Project Management Units (PMUs)
        staffed with national consultants. This has worked and i s confirmed by positive
        financial management and procurement assessments by Bank supervision
        missions.   Building a PMU takes, however, time and risks delays in project
        implementation. It has therefore been agreed that the project would initially use
        the financial management and procurement staff in place at the Private Sector
        Rehabilitation and DevelopmentProject (PSRDP) until N A S technical staff have
        beenhired and sufficiently trained. The PSRDP has satisfactory procurement and
        financial management procedures and trained staff. In addition, it has sufficient
        capacity to ensure the efficient management o f these activities during project
        preparation and take-off.     It has also been agreed that all seven (national)
        technical staff o f the National AIDS Secretariat WAS) would be hired on a
        contractual basis through an open (internationally advertised), competitive and
        transparent process to manage implementation activities such as behavioral
        surveys, operational research, financial and program management, monitoring and
        evaluation, etc. All technical staff would receive compensation based on national
        expert standards to attract broad interest and would have annually renewable


                                             2

        contracts with clear performance criteria.       These arrangements are aimed at
        ensuring efficiency, accountability and transparency o f project management and
        reducing implementation related and fiduciary risks. NAS staff selection would
        be done by a broad committee, including members o f the HIV/AIDS thematic
        group, as well as UNDP Agencies (including UNICEF), to ensure independence
        from Government. The World Bank no objection for each selected NAS staff will
        be requested before appointment. In addition, assurances were obtained during
        negotiations that the National AIDS Committee (NAC) and NAS would be
        autonomous from Government with an independent board comprised two-thirds
        o f non-public sector representatives. An independent institutional assessment
        would be carried out within twelve months o f grant effectiveness to ensure
        efficiency o f arrangements;' and
    d) The Government has agreed to use and fundmultipleimplementation agencies as
        reflected in its plans to channel funds directly to both public and private
        implementing agencies, civil society organizations, NGOs, associations o f
        PLWHA, andto communities.
The proposed project will support the Government in mainstreaming program activities
to all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and other non-health Government
agencies at national and local levels, and making better use o f community and civil
society organizations such as churches, trade unions and private businesses. The cost of
the SNP has yet to be finalized, but it i s clear that Government resources and pledges by
cooperating partners cannot adequately address the financing needs. To drastically scale
up the current level o f activities and to reduce HIV/AIDS and its impact on
socioeconomic development, technical and financial assistance from IDA i s required to
fillpart ofthe fundinggap. Theprojectwillbea catalyst inhelping Government obtain
resources from bilateral partners and the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis,
andMalaria (GFATM). The focus will be to put inplace basic infrastructure and human
resources for an expanded and multi-sectoral response, knowledge sharing, and systems
strengthening.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

This project is consistent with the objectives o f the Interim Support Strategy (ISS),
currently planned for Board presentation in September 2004. The ISS supports the
Government's goal to improve access to basic social services.
The project will support the Government in implementing its SNP and will provide the
necessary resources andtechnical skills to scale up and improve delivery mechanisms for
HIV/AIDS control activities. The SNP was designedto take into account the following
Government priorities: (i)    build capacity at local and national level to ensure quality of
services and expansion o f existing good practices; (ii)mitigate the negative
socioeconomic impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic; (iii)scale up advocacy measures to
ensure full involvement o f policy makers, civil society and the private sector; (iv) reach
all vulnerable groups to prevent new HIV infections; (v) promote positive socio-cultural


' Thesearrangements were confirmed during negotiations,

behavioral changes; (vi) improve the institutional framework; and (vii) ensure
sustainability o f the overall program.
The project will focus on the following strategic choices to support SNP implementation:
(a) intensify prevention, care and mitigation at the grass-roots level; (b) improve the
health care system related to HIV/AIDS; (c) facilitate full public sector involvement; (d)
support institutional strengthening; (e) ensure essential access to Anti Retroviral
Treatment (ART) and treatment for Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI); and (f)
mainstream gender issues.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

This project is a Sector Investment Loanunder IDA'SMulti-Country HIV/AIDS Program
(MAP) for the Africa Region and i s in accordance with the Bank's regional HIV/AIDS
strategy for "Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a
Development Crisis."

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand keyindicators

The project will support the medium-term strategy of the Government to expand and
accelerate the national response to HIVIAIDS by: (i)     reducing the spread o f HIV/AIDS
infection; (ii)increasing access to treatment for STIs and HIV/AIDS; and (iii)    decreasing
the socio-economic impacts of HIV/AIDS at the individual, household, and community
levels.
Specifically, the project will:
    -   fund projects led by civil society, including the private sector, and carried out in
        urban and rural communities, which cover HIV/AIDS-related prevention,
        advocacy, public awareness creation and care for orphans and PLWHA, focusing
    -   on the most vulnerable groups;
        strengthen delivery o f health services providing prevention, care and treatment
        services, giving priority to the five regions with highest HIV/AIDS prevalence
        rates. Such services would include voluntary testing and counseling services and

    -   treatment o f STIs and opportunistic infections relatedto HIV/AIDS;
        enable Government at the national and regional levels to carry out programs
        advocating prevention and facilitating access to care for its own staff and
    -   communities; and
        strengthen institutional capacity for planning, delivering and monitoring o f
        HIV/AIDS response interventions through all levels of Government and its line
        ministries, civil society andthe private sector, with a focus on vulnerable groups.
The National Strategic Plan to Combat HIV/AIDS and STIs has established a series o f
output, process, and outcome indicators. The project will support efforts to continuously
improve the capture and assessment o f this information.          Indicators for output and
process will focus on the coverage and quality o f the various advocacy, prevention, and



                                              4

care programs. Outcome and impact indicators will capture the long-term effect o f the
national AIDS campaign, but are unlikelyto show dramatic changes during the three-year
implementation cycle o f this project. There will be five surveillance centers operational
by full development, one in each o f the five regions, permitting a broader and more
reliable assessment of the epidemic status. This will also permit an assessment of the
effectiveness o f fundedactivities.

Key indicators to be monitored andtargets to be achieved by 2007 include:

 Input and Output Indicators
    Increase from 0% to 20 % of PLWA that receive medical assistance (01and/or ARV) by Y3
    % of PLWHA and/or affected families receiving/benefiting in finding adapted sources of revenue
    Increase from 0% to 10%of OVC benefiting from improved access to education and/or food aid
    Funded line Ministries have achieved 75% of their annual HIV/AIDS outreach plan
    All public institutions distribute condoms, with 1million condoms distributed annually by Y3
    All secondary and tertiary health facilities of pilot regions have the capacity to treat, diagnose and
    test for STDs by syndromic approach (trained staff and no drugs stock outs)
    At least 2 operators and 1 manager of each rural radio trained in HIVIAIDS IEC by end 2006
    Number of men and women who are being counseled and tested for HIV
    Over 50000 clients reached annually by civil society initiatives on HIV/AIDS by 2007
    At least US$1 million is channeled to communities for civil society initiatives by 2007

 Outcome Indicators
    Condom use in sexual encounters outside of primary relationship in the last 12 months by persons
    15-19, has increased by 10% over 2003 levels
     Percentage of men and women aged 15-49 reporting STI symptoms in the last 12 months, who
    sought care at a health facility, in the five pilot regions

 Process (and coverage) Indicators
    Seven VCT centers, equitably distributed geographically, are in place
     Percentage of men and women aged 15-49 that report having access to condoms
    5 priority regions develop and implement their annual regional plans with stakeholder participation

 Impact Indicators
    By the end of the third year of the project, the rate of increase of seroprevalence of HIV among
    antenatal women aged 15-24 has declined (compared to the first year of the project)


A full set of indicators is presented inAnnex 9.

3. Project components

Total project costs amount to US$7.0 million. A detailed description o f the project i s
attached in Annex 4. The project will be implemented through three components: (i)
Community and Civil Society Initiatives and Capacity Building (US$2.5 million); (ii)
Government Multi-Sector Response (US$2.2 million); and (iii)             Institutional Development
for Program Management (US$2.3 million).                  IDA funding would not be sufficient to
support the national program without complementary funding from the GFATM. Hence



                                                     5

the IDA-supported project will focus on five pilot regions only. GFATM has already
committed to provide US$2million to the Tuberculosis program.


Component 1: Community and Civil Society Initiatives, and Capacity Building
(US2.5 million)
This component will focus on social mobilization and community level responses to
HIVIAIDS. Funds will be set up to expand and strengthen HIV/AIDS activities of
Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and civil society associations themselves or in
contracting Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) or private sector entities.          Civil
society associations include religious organizations, associations of persons living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and orphan associations. There will be clearly defined eligibility
criteria for organizations to be funded under this component, which will be elaborated in
the ImplementationManual. Groups that receive funding will be encouragedto focus, but
not necessary limit, their activities on the most vulnerable groups. These include:
PLWHA, hospital workers, orphans, youth, commercial sex workers, and truck drivers.
Fundswill be specifically set-asidefor two groups:

Orphans. Project-provided support will not differentiate between orphans by cause, as
this would be difficult and inhumane. UNICEF and WFP will be two of the main
implementing partners.       The project will set up a permanent regionalized system,
managed by recipient CBOs, Faith-based Organizations and associations with
involvement of representatives of service provider NGOs and private sector, to provide
support to identifiedorphans andto identify and apply bestpractice approaches.

PLWHA. The program will support efforts to create AIDS competent communities by
improving skills and increasing implementation capacity for the implementation of
targeted mitigation and prevention activities by supporters and target groups active under
the Community and Civil Society Initiatives.

Fundedactivities under component 1 will include:
0   Courses and activities to build HIV/AIDS awareness and leadership capacity in the
    public sector, civil society, andthe private sector;
0   Formulation of HIV/AIDS awareness training modules for use in public and private
    sector enterprises.    Development and distribution of specialized packages of
    Information, Education and Communications (IEC) materials;
0   Rural radio equipmentrehabilitation and staff technical capacity strengthening. RCs
    will enter into contractual agreementsto include specific HIV/AIDS programs intheir
    broadcasts; and
0   Funding grant allocation for CBO empowerment and activities and NGO capacity
    strengtheningand activities.

Component2: GovernmentMulti Sector Response(US$2.2M)
This component will comprise a fund to scale up and strengthenprevention, care, support
and mitigation of the social and economic impact of HIV/AIDS through
programs/activities of the public sector. I t will support public sector institutions to


                                              6

protect their own personnel from the impact o f HIV/AIDS and, where applicable, to
integrate HIV/AIDS activities into their core business. Sub-contracting by MDAs, local
authorities and parastatals will be encouraged in order to make the best use of the
implementation capacity that may be available outside the public sector. This component
will provide the following support:

Subcomponent1: Support to Ministryof Health(US$1.3M)
The largest share of funds under this component will be dedicated to supporting the
Ministry of Health in its unique role in combating the epidemic. This support will
partially finance the Ministry'sHIV/AIDS work plan.

This subcomponentwill include:

    Strengthening the Integrated Health Network (IHN). The IHN provides voluntary
    counseling and testing and HIV/AIDS related services along the major transportation
    axes where prevalencerates are highest;
    Increasing the supply of drugs and materials, such as condoms, opportunistic
    infection drugs and anti-retroviral drugs for the reduction of Mother to Child
    Transmission (MTCT) andpost exposure prophylaxis;
    Strengthening clinical laboratory capacity to enable diagnosis and monitoring of HIV
   therapy, including those for CD4 monitoring and diagnosis of opportunistic
    infections;
    Support to epidemiological surveillance;
   Prevention, diagnosis, andtreatment of STIs;
   Prevention of MTCT;
    Improvingmanagement of opportunistic infections (OIs), focusing on prevention and
   treatment; and
    Improving management monitoring and evaluation of activities supported under the
    component and the overall progress of the epidemic.

Subcomponent 2:          Support to other Ministries and Government Agencies
(US$0.9M)
The range of activities to be consideredwithinwork plans of eachministry will include:

    Capacity building for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS-related activities into regular work
   plan:
    IEC campaigns, including promotion o f condom use, for staff and client awareness.
    The campaigns are to ensure a sustainable behavior change among its staff and
    clients;
   Promotion of staff access to condoms;
   Facilitation of HIV/AIDS social support network provisionfor all staff;
   Impact studies to investigate the qualitative and quantitative consequences o f the
   epidemicon specified sectors and analysis ofpossible andappropriate responses; and
   Policies regarding the posting and locationo f staff.



                                            7

To reflect the highly decentralized nature o f Government, the component will be broken
into national, regional, and local initiatives. Additionally, each ministry, key ministry or
not, will conduct activities relevant to the areas o f its comparative advantage.

Component3: InstitutionalDevelopmentfor ProgramManagement(US$2.3M)
The project will support the NAC, whose broad responsibilities will evolve mainly
around advocacy, and providing leadership for the multi-sectoral response to
HIV/AIDS.       The N A C is not envisioned to have implementation or funding
responsibilities. The project design acknowledges the mandate o f the N A C and creates
opportunities to support the N A C inthe implementationo f its mandate. Support will be
given to the N A C for a semiannual one-day information workshop.

The project will also support the NAS, including its regional components and focal
points, to fulfill its national HIV/AIDS coordination mandate, technical support,
financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. The N A S created by the Prime
Minister inMarch 2004 will be the P M U and i s set-up as an autonomous entity attached
to the Office o f the Prime Minister. Lessons learned from the satisfactory rated PMUs
of the National Health Development Program and the PSRDP have been taken into
account inprogram design.

Supportwill be givento the NAS for:


0   Establishment and operation o f an effective secretariat and networks at national,
    regional, and district levels;
0   Provision o f high-leveltechnical references and establishment o f advisory capacity;
0   Establishment and operation and maintenance of performing financial management
    and procurement systems;
0   Resource mobilization; and
0   Establishment and operation and maintenance o f performing Monitoring &
    Evaluation Systems (M&ES).

The PSRDP will initially provide project management support untilthe NAS P M U is in
place and its staff has been sufficiently trained. It will receive incremental operating
support for this activity from the Project PreparationFundadvance.

4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe projectdesign
International experience with HIV/AIDS, in particular experience from countries like
Uganda, Senegal, and Brazil, and lessons from other ongoing Bank-supported HIV/AIDS
projects inAfrica within the MAP, and country-specific efforts inGuinea-Bissau have all
been reflected in project design. The Government has integrated many o f the lessons
from the global response to HIV/AIDS and from the implementation o f other Bank-
funded operations into the design o f its SNP. It has mobilized strong commitment at the
highestlevels andestablished partnerships with key stakeholders.




                                               8

Key lessons are outlined below. Their detailed descriptions canbe found inAnnex 4.

    --  political leadership and commitment i s imperative to confront the epidemic;
        vulnerability factors are key drivers o f the epidemic; focus on vulnerable groups

    -   i s essential;
        external resources and capacity building will empower the response o f local

    -   communities;
        there i s a need to address the multi-dimensional nature o f the epidemic with a

    -   multi-sector approach;
        beneficiaries must initiate project orientation and evaluation to ensure their needs
    -   are addressed;
        the project must focus on knowledge building and evidence-based interventions

    -   where there i s lack o f consensus;
        the crucial role o f rural radios to efficiently educate large rural populations must

    --- be recognized;
        the use o findigenous knowledge andpractices are integralto HIV/AIDS efforts;
        the role o ftheNAC/NAS and implementingagencies mustbe clearly spelled out;
        complex supervision o f M A P projects requires more attention and resources than

    -   average projects;
        sufficient resources and skills should be made available for robust monitoring and

    -   evaluation; and
        effective coordination among development partners can significantly reduce
        transaction costs.

5. Alternativesconsideredand reasons for rejection

Given the MAP context, no alternative project designs would be appropriate.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements
The project will seek to enter into a partnership arrangement with UN agencies to assist
in project implementation, particularly WHO for health, and UNICEF and WFP for
orphans and PLWHA support. UNagencies and French cooperation have expressed their
interest to support the project. A formal agreement at negotiations was not possible given
the country context (elections in March 2004) and their ongoing review o f their country
assistance programs. Given the important role to be played by UN partner agencies,
especially in the first year o f project implementation, the project would finance their
incrementaloperating costs ifno other funding sources are available.

2. Institutionalarrangements
The project will support the SNP and will be under direct supervision o f the Prime
Minister's Office (PMO).      Policymaking will be the responsibility o f the NAC. The
NAS, headedby a National Secretary, will carry out coordination, technical support, and
financing at the national level. N A C and N A S would be autonomous from Government
and two-thirds o f the N A C Board would be from civil society. NAS technical staff


                                                9

would be recruited using open, transparent and competitive procedures internationally
advertised and maintained on the basis o f annually renewable performance contracts.
Continued financing from the Bank would be contingent on a satisfactory institutional
assessment within one year o f grant effectiveness.       Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations. The project preparation advance will provide funding for
the hiringo ftechnical staff.

The RCs will coordinate and provide technical support to project implementation at the
local and regional levels.     Implementation o f project-supported activities will be the
responsibility o f CBOs, associations, and the public and private sector, which will
contract NGOs and technical assistance when needed.           Annex 6 provides detailed
implementation arrangements.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results
There will be only one M&ES for both the Project and the National Program. The
M&ES will be established at start-up and will include indicators to measure progress
towards achieving project objectives. As such, it will provide valuable information for
program management, other stakeholders, and external parties.
The aim o fthe M&ES will beto:
     -   provide accessible, timely information on program inputs, process, outputs and

     -   outcomes;
         identify intra-country variations to support the design o f effective HIV/AIDS

     -   operations;
         engage stakeholders by sharing information on progress made, lessons learned,
         and improvements needed through a participatory evaluation o f project activities
         at all levels; and
     -   provide best practice examples.

Once the M&ES for the national program i s finalized, one o f the first priorities o f the
NAS will be to determine whether the existing data provide a sufficient baseline for the
program impact and outcome indicators. If not, surveys would be carried out to collect
the necessary data to allow for project monitoring and impact evaluation. Where
possible, integration will be pursued between the financial management system and the
M&ES as this makes implementationdata collection easier at marginal cost. The M&ES
i s detailed inAnnex 9.

4. Sustainability
The project is expected to be sustainable, as it is built on strong government ownership
and broad partnerships. It will gradually expand interventions in line with capacities and
progressively mainstream HIV/AIDS activities into major government sectors and civil
society. The project emphasizes institutional capacity building at national, state, and
local levels. At the community level, sustainability will be bolstered by participatory
methodologies       for  identifying subprojects,  end-user accountability,    and tying
replenishments to results.     With regard to financial sustainability, it is unlikely that
Government will be able to fully finance the program over the medium term given the



                                             10

precarious position o f public finances. The country will therefore remain dependent on
support from bilateral and multilateral agencies beyond the initial period o f
implementation.

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects

                        Risk                        Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
 'rom Outputs to Objective
 2uality and commitment of political leadership,      S    Major advocacy and awareness-building campaigns
 ncluding the National Council, would be                   will increase understanding and support among
 veaker than needed.                                       policy makers and general public.
 Neak Health sector would hamper strategic                 The project will support improvement of health
 iIV/AIDS-related health care issues.                      sector services related to HIWAIDS. GFATM is
                                                           already supporting the TB MOH program. However,
                                                           complementary support from GFATM will be crucial
                                                           for the MOH programs related to HIVIAIDS impact.
 lonor interest and financing would not                    Donors are currently willing to engage in support of
 ncrease.                                                  the program. Transparency and efficient M&E will
                                                           provide evidence to the donors about the efficient
                                                           use of their funds.
 'rom Components to Outputs
 \IAS     management       and     implementation     H    The NAS is implemented as an autonomous
 :apacity would be inadequate for task.                    structure with all national staff recruited on a
                                                           competitive basis through a transparent and
                                                           internationally advertised procurement process, with
                                                           national expert level remuneration packages, and
                                                           maintained on one-year renewable contracts with
                                                           performance     indicators.   The project supports
                                                           training, systems development, sharing of tasks,
                                                           decentralization of responsibilities and activities,
                                                           and     contracting.         Clear    description    of
                                                           responsibilities     and     procedures      in    the
                                                           Implementation Manual, which will be adopted as a
                                                           condition of effectiveness. In addition, there would
                                                           be an institutional assessment within 12 months 01
                                                           grant effectiveness to ensure that managemeni
                                                           arrangements      are appropriate     and necessary
                                                           adaptations can be made at that time.
  nsufficient data is available to measure project     H   An assessment of available data would be carriec
  mpact (some key data may not be easily                   out as part of the establishment of the M&E systen
 :ollectable or collected too late to be of use in         and where necessary, data would be collected 01
 xoject evaluation)                                        systems put in place to collect such data.
  nsufficient CBOs and NGOs found in the                   Civil society institutions outside of main cities arc
 *egionsto carry out a broad program.                      weak. Project will build capacity by selecting NGC
                                                           intermediaries and work with them to identify
                                                           strengthen, register and invigorate institutions at thc
                                                           community level. Substantial activity work being
                                                           carried out by NGOs with local and foreign funding
                                                           Civil society participation in steering committees wil
                                                           also help maintain support.
 Overall Risk Rating
 !isk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk).
 ~




                                                 11

The project has a "Substantial Risk" rating overall.        Given the unreliable political
situation, the limited implementation experience o f agencies, and the new mechanisms to
channel funds to communities, IDA will need to take the following steps to minimize the
risks:
    --- provide adequateresources for supervision;
        provide intensive support for financial, procurement andM&Emanagement; and
        collaborate closely with internal and external partners and stakeholders.

6. Grant effectiveness conditions and covenants
    -   Adoption of: (i) accounting and financial management system for the project
                           an
        which shall provide, inter alia, for the preparation o f FMRs; and (ii)  the project
        implementation manual (including specific manuals for financial management and
        accounting, procurement and M&E); all in form and substance satisfactory to the

    -   Association;
        Each Public Sector Organization (MDAs, in particular Ministry o f Health,
        MinistryofEducation, MinistryofDefense, MinistryofAgriculture, Forestryand
        Livestock, and the State Secretariat o f Youth Culture and Sports) have presented
        action plans to fight against HIV/AIDS for the first year o f project

    -   implementation, inform and substance satisfactory to the Association;
    -   The Government has appointed an independentauditor; and
        All technical staff o f NAS have been appointed, including the National Secretary
        to be responsible for overall project management, a financial manager, a
        procurement specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with
        experience and qualifications, and under terms o f reference satisfactory to the
        Association.

A PPF is assisting Government inmeetingthese conditions ina timely manner.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses
Economic
The economic analysis inthe PADfor the first phase M A P (Report# 20727 AFR) applies
to this project. The analysis includes an overall assessment o f the impact o f HIV/AIDS
on economic development and poverty and a cost-benefit analysis o f HIV/AIDS
interventions. This section only highlights some o f the key points applicable to the
project.
The epidemic has become a serious socioeconomic development issue and it affects the
economy through (a) reducing productivity, domestic savings and economic growth, and
(b) increasing costs o f treatment and care for both affected households and society as a
whole. AIDS strikes people in their most productive age, reducing both the size and
growtho fthe nation's labor force.



                                             12

Care and treatment for AIDS impose enormous costs on households and the society at
large. Households with AIDS patients are likely to lose the income o f their members in
addition to facing an increase in medical expenses.       Some households are forced to
withdraw their children from schools in order to save money as one o f their coping
strategies.
The economic benefits are multifold.          First, since this project aims to expand
interventions in HIVIAIDS control and mitigation, the majority o f the population will
directly and indirectly benefit from increased access to HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment,
care and mitigation activities. Secondly, new HIV infections will be reduced, due to an
expansion in coverage o f the package o f HIV/AIDS prevention activities.          Thirdly,
people living with HIV/AIDS can lead longer and more productive lives by benefiting
from better management o f opportunistic infections and access to nutritional
supplements, resultinginless productivity andincome losses. Fourthly, orphans will have
improved economic prospects with increased schooling.
Financial
The P A D for the first phase M A P states that, "for each o f the physical works
components, the operation and maintenance costs will be calculated and commitment
required from Government to finance and carry out effective O&M on an annual basis.
An annual review of O&M for physical works will be carried out three months prior to
the fiscal year." Where applicable, this process will be conducted for the project.
2. Technical
The project will follow internationally accepted best practice for HIV/AIDS prevention,
treatment, care and support services, and the training o f health care professionals, as
validated by UNAIDS and WHO and other key technical partners.              In addition, the
technical design o f the project has been based on lessons learned from experience inother
countries and inGuinea-Bissau.
The epidemic behaves differently in every setting, so no single approach is universally
valid. The program will emphasize learning-by-doing. Workshops will be heldregularly
among communities andassociations and also at the regional and national levels. All key
stakeholders will participate and share experiences from implementation and monitoring,
as well as reviewing data emerging from the M&ES. Lessons from implementation
experience will be usedto refine program design.
3. Fiduciary
Procurement

NAS and the Regional Committees will procure works and goods inaccordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, and, in
particular, Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services
by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be contracted inaccordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers. Communities and CBOs will use the Bank's simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments to procure goods or



                                             13

services needed to implement their initiatives under the Community AIDS Response
Fund. Most grantsthat fall underthis category will beunderUS$lO,OOO.
For urgentlyrequireditems valued at less than US$50,000, contracts may be made based
on international shopping and national shopping procedures, per IDA Procurement
Guidelines (Clauses 3.5 and 3.6).     Pharmaceuticals, reagents and medical consumables
maybe procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office o f the United
Nations, UNICEF, the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
Proprietary agents maybe procured on a sole source basis. A wide-ranging General
Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year will be placed on the United Nations
Development Business web site. The Government will include the procurement plan for
the first year in the Procurement Manual. The procurement schedule will be updated
quarterly and submitted to IDA by the NAS and its performance will be assessed on an
annual basis and through ad-hoc reviews.
Financial Management
Given the lack of capacity to adequately manage project funds at the beginning o f the
project at all levels, it was agreed, in keeping with the principles o f the umbrella MAP,
that extraordinary arrangements were warranted to aid the community-level response.
The arrangements for the NAS have been detailed above and aim at ensuring adherence
to fiduciary requirements imposed by IDA and the Government while at the same time
imposing efficiency in the provision o f funds for agreed upon purposes when needed.
These two will be key criteria in assessing the performance o f NAS and its technical
staff.
According to terms o f the agreed action plans at the regional level, CBOs and NGOs will
receive funds from NAS transferred through the Western Union system (no other formal
banking system exists).
Accounting and auditing procedures will apply to funds disbursed to public or private
institutions, as detailed inthe Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by
The World Bank. Accounting requirements for project beneficiaries such as CBOs and
NGOs will be simplified and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. The N A S
Financial and Administrative Director will ensure that financial management and
reporting complies with international standards and acceptable to IDA. The Financial
management system will be capable o f producing timely, clear, relevant, and reliable
financial  information for planning, implementing, and monitoring overall project
progress.
DisbursementProcedures

All procurement contracts not subject to prior IDA reviewwill be disbursedagainst SOEs
and documentation will be retained by NAS and made available for review.               All
disbursements will be subject to ex post financial and physical audits by the project's
external auditor and Bank supervision missions.




                                             14

 Planningand Budgeting

 The work program planning and budgeting cycle has been designed to fit the National
 Budget cycle. Annual budget requests will be prepared at regional and central levels by
 mid-year.       This process will be initiated and supported by the NAS. The planning
 process will be bottom-up, with work programs and budgets first agreed at the regional
  level before submission for consolidation at the national level. At this time, NAS will
 also invite MDAs, NGOs, etc., to present cross regionalhational level proposals that are
  eligible for project funding.
  4. Social
 A social assessment was carried out duringproject preparation and it revealed two main
  issues. First, gender inequity i s a key issue inthe AIDS epidemic. Females will receive
  particular attention in project design and implementation by supporting efforts to reduce
  mother to child transmission, the risk o f infection o f adolescent girls, and specific
  programs targeting women who sell sex as a means o f survival. The NAS will have a
  specialist focusing on gender and human rights issues.
  5. Environment
  The project is rated category B. The most important environmental issue identified
  relates to medical waste disposal. In February 2002, regulatory agencies, health care
  facilities, litter gatherers, and community organizations were consulted and identified
  issues include: lack o f appropriate selection o f health care waste, carelessness and lack of
  qualification of the medical staff, mingling o f health care waste with normal household
  litter, insufficient quantities of collection baskets and provisional litter containers, lack o f
  security equipment for cleaning staff, and no efficient waste treatment system. For
  detailed description o f the Medical Waste Management Plan, please review Annex 10.
  The project is allocating US$370,000 for MWMP implementation in the five pilot
  regions.
  6. Safeguardpolicies

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                          Yes                   No
Environmental Assessment                                                             [XI                    [ I
Natural Habitats                                                                      I1                   [XI
Pest Management                                                                       [ I                  [XI
Cultural Property                                                                     [I                   [XI
Involuntary Resettlement                                                              [ I                  [XI
Indigenous Peoples                                                                    [I                   [XI
Forests                                                                               11                   [XI
Safety of Dams                                                                        [I                   [XI
Projects in Disputed Areas*                                                           [I                   [XI
Projects on International Waterways                                                                        [XI
  "By supportingthe proposedproject,the Bank does not intendto prejudicethe final determinationof the parties'
  claims on the disputed areas

  7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness
  Policy Exceptions
  Not applicable.


                                                       15

Readiness for Implementation

  0   The first year's procurement plan has been submitted as a condition o f Board
      presentation;
  0   The various implementation manuals are in an advanced stage o f preparation.
      Their completion will be a condition o f effectiveness; and
  0   Recruitment o f key technical staff at NAS will be a condition o f effectiveness.




                                             16

  GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT
                  Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background


For country and program introduction, please review SectionA 1 o f the main text.

Below are explanations o f the fundamental determinants for the increase in infection
rates:

Awareness and BehavioralChange
In 1998, a national survey showed that of all women in the 15 to 49 age group, 42 percent had
never heard o f HIV/AIDS. Only 40 percent were informed about at least two ways to avoid
infection. Sixty-five percent were unaware that a person living with AIDS could infect another
persons through unprotected sex. Sixty-six percent of health workers were unaware of the risk
posed by insufficient or no sterilization of medical equipment. In Bissau in 2001, 23 percent of
men and 63 percent of women of all ages had no knowledge o f HIV/AIDS.

Low rate of condom use
In 1998, inthe Bissau area, only 27 percent ofmenand 2 percent ofwomen statedthat they had
used a condom at least once. Amongst young sexually active people (15 to 19) only 11percent
reportedhavingusedcondoms at least once.

Denialand fear of AIDS
The inability o f women to negotiate condom use limits their demand. Due to the absence of
information on transmission and viable treatment options and a strong social stigma there is no
incentive to get tested for HIV or change behavior.

Multiple partnersis an acceptedcustom
In 1998, 39 percent of menand 10 percent of women declared that they had more than one sexual
partner. The development of multi-partner behavior has ledto an increased opportunity to transfer
the diseaseand a decreasedincentiveto inform partners o fHIV status.

Prostitution
Commercial sex is accepted and the economic crisis is increasing the attractiveness to work as a
sex worker. The prevalence amongst one group o f prostitutes was 25 percent in 1998.

Stigma
The problem o f stigma affected the momentum o f the past HIV/AIDS campaigns. Only a small
number o f courageous individuals, living in urban areas, have revealed their HIV positive status.
They are subject to discrimination andjob loss and are now slowly organizing themselves into an
association, which can mobilize resources for care and advocacy. At higher levels of society the
issue remains taboo. The national legislation is not taking into account the HIV/AIDS stigma.


Government Strategy
The importance of the HIV/AIDS epidemic is clear to the Government, which notes that
"further evolution o f this epidemic would be disastrous for the country's development"
and that "AIDS is more than a problem pertaining to the health sector alone, it i s a social
problem of national and global proportions, which requires alerting society more


                                                 17

forcefully about the current infection situation inthe country and mobilizing support from
all partners to intensify the fight againstthe disease."

A first program to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS and treat STIs was launched with
extensive donor support in 1990. The 1998/99 conflict stopped all efforts and donors
financing. In the post-conflict situation, the waging of an effective campaign against
HIV/AIDS is complicated by an economic situation where everyone is more concerned
with daily survivalthanfocusing onthe long-term development impact ofHIV/AIDS.

Ina difficult environment during the last two years the national team supportedby donors
succeeded inthe following two steps:

I.BuildinganationallyagreedStrategicNationalPlan
In spite of the difficult post conflict conditions and with very scarce financial resources,
the national team has succeeded in elaborating a SNP for HIV/AIDS, with technical
assistance and financial support from UNAgencies and the World Bank. InJune 2002,
the Planwas adoptedat a national consensus workshop chaired by the Prime Ministerand
the Minister of Health.
decentralized participatoryThe    Government has confirmed their commitment to:         i)a
                              approach, ii)a multi-sector strategy, and iii)a reliable and
fully transparent financing system. Each of these elements are crucial to building an
efficient MAP.

11.Building a National Programfor SNP implementation
During the 18 months of MAP preparation with the World Bank, UNDP, UNAIDS and
other donors, the Government carried out several studies to analyze the national context
and to prepare a reliable technical proposal. Studies and workshops developed the
institutional framework clarifying the roles of NGOs and CBOs, the financing system, the
M&E strategy and instruments, and the technical strengthening strategy for each sector.
The GFATM comments for the first financing request of June 2003 have emphasizedthe
lack of efficient management system, financial management, and M&E.                     The
Government has completed the updatedNSP implementation program. NAC,which was
created by the Prime Minister in March 2004, is comprised of the main ministers, civil
society representatives including representation o f the three main religions, and the
private sector, including NGO service providers (overall two-thirds non-government
membership).

Search for donors to fund the implementation of the National Strategy Plan.
The Government is looking for support from the World Bank (May 2004), the GFATM
(potentially June 2004), and other donors. In March 2004, a GFATM preparation team
and the World Bank project appraisal team, worked together with the national team in
preparing a comprehensive national plan, which would be eligible for support from both
organizations. The Government expects to start a limitedimplementation planwith Bank
support inJuly 2004 andan expandedplanwith bothBank and GFATMsupport in2005.




                                               18

The project will focus on the following strategic choices to support SNP implementation:

a) intensify prevention, care and mitigation at thegrassroots level:

     -
     -   engage broadly inrural areas;
         strengthen capacity building aimed at empowering CBOs and fund action plans
     -   eligible under grant allocations;
         fund actionplans aimed at strengtheningNGOs so that they will become efficient

     -   services providers;
         fund measures to mitigate the negative socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS by
         supporting the design and promotion of social safety nets for those affected by

     -  HIV/AIDS; and
         strengthenrural radios to ensure an efficient national cover as a key element of
        the preventionstrategy.
PLWHA and orphans will be the mainbeneficiaries o fthe above activities. By late 2000
it was estimated that there were some 35,000 people living with HIV/AIDS in Guinea-
Bissau. About 6,000 children inthe country are without parents due to the conflict and/or
HIV/AIDS. This burdenhas been, to a limitedextent, absorbed by the extended family,
but there are limits to how much support is available. The burden is expected to grow
exponentially, as the number o f adult deaths from AIDS will increase in the coming
years. The creation o f the first NGO-supported PLWHA association last year has beena
positive step forward. The association i s very active and will be supported by the project
to scale up its activities at the regional level.
The project recognizes that support for community-based responses targeting orphans i s a
desirable and economically feasible intervention and it will address the education, health,
economic and social needs o f orphans (see Annex 12).
b) improveHIV7AIDS-related health care system:
The health system in Guinea-Bissau consists o f a network o f one national hospital, four
regional hospitals (plus one new under construction), and about 135 rural health centers
and health posts.
It is estimated that about sixty percent o f the population have access to basic public
health services and live within ten kilometers o f a facility. Most o f the doctors in the
country are concentrated inthe Bissau region with the health centers being administered
by midwivesand nurses. People living on the regional outskirts can be thirty kilometers
(almost a day o f walking) away from a doctor. Health posts with nurses are on average
five kilometers away.
The closest medical service available to most o f the population is the traditional healer,
located usually less than two kilometers (thirty minutes o f walking) from the rural
household. The traditional healer i s normally the first stop for the rural population with
health concerns. Health care i s officially free of charge in Guinea-Bissau. However, in
reality patients are required to contribute about ten percent of the health care cost, which
i s often too expensive.
Prevention without care for people living with HIV/AIDS i s not an appropriate strategy.
The Ministryo fHealthwill be one o fthe pillars supported by the project inthe following


                                                19

areas: availability o f VCT facilities, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of STIs,
epidemiological surveillance, mother to child transmission, access to drugs, improvement
o f laboratory capacities, monitoring and evaluation o f activities. Equipment and a large
training program will help improve the response to the epidemic.
c) facilitate full public sector involvement:
       -   encourage involvement o f key ministries: Education, Agriculture, Youth and
           Sport and Army . Other ministries will also provide IEC programs, training,
       -   facilitation to access to care and monitoring for all of their staffs; and
           ensure respect o f human rights o f those affected by HIV. The project will
           focus particularly on reducing the social stigma associated with HIV/AIDS by
           helping improve the legal environment.
d) support institutional strengthening:
        -   buildcapacity o fthe National AIDS Secretariat (NAS) andthe National AIDS

        -   Council (NAC) bothnationally and regionally;
            build coordination and coherence among stakeholders by putting in place
        --  M&Esystems andby sharing informationandbest practices;
            improve quality o f financial management and flow o f resources; and
            seek increased financial support from donors.
e) ensure essential access toART and treatmentsfor STI:
Access to HIV/AIDS-related care and treatment i s critical for a population that cannot
afford current drug prices. The Bank will assist Government in developing partnerships
to make HIV/AIDS and STI treatments more accessible, while ensuring that improved
health services are in place to support improved access to ART. The project will also
support the development o f procurement and financing policies and methods, M&E
systems and analytical work to provide the basis for better decision-making by the
Government on this issue.       The Government will take advantage o f the new WHO
regulations allowing poor countries to import low cost HIV/AIDS medication. Funding
support from the Global Fundwould be needed to complement the M A P resources.
fi mainstreamgender issues:
Young girls tend to engage insexual activities earlier than their male counterparts. They
also enter into relations with older, more experienced men who are more likely to have
beeninfected. Females withmultiplepartners are also less likely to perceive risk and less
likely to report sexual activity with non-regular partners when compared with their male
counterparts.    After the death of their male partners, females are more likely to lose
control over the properties o f the deceased thereby becoming even poorer. When parents
are illor have died, girls are more likely to drop out o f school to care for sick parents or
younger siblings. When placed infoster homes, girls are much more likely to be sexually
abused. Physical violence, the threat o f violence, and/or fear o f abandonment can act as
substantial barriers to women in negotiating condom use, discussing fidelity with
partners, or in leaving relationships perceived to place them at increased risk o f HIV
infection. Boys and young men are still brought up in an environment in which social
values, education and peer pressure encourage multiple and casual sexual relationships.




                                              20

To address the HIV/AIDS epidemic successfully, it will be essential to consider the role
o f gender inincreasingthe vulnerability and impactof HIV/AIDS.
Gender specific community activities that focus on the prevention of HIV will be
encouraged. Reducing the HIV prevalence in the teenage girls population will receive
highpriority, and a concertedeffort will bemadeto involveactivitiestargetingolder men
to facilitate this change. The project will support community-drivenactivities that focus
on the care of women, girls andwidowers affectedby HIV/AIDS.




                                             21

  GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORT PROJECT
   Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies


 Sector Issue           Project                                     Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings*
                                                                     Implementation      Development
 Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)      Objective (DO)
                        National Health Development Program                  S                 S

                        Private Sector Rehabilitation and                    S                 S
                        Development Project

IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory).
*Bank-financed projects only




                                              22

         GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORTPROJECT
                                  Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                                 ResultsFramework

                                                  OutcomeIndicators                  Use of OutcomeInformation
                                        By the end of Y3 of the project, the rate letermine overall effectivenessofthis
Guinea-Bissau                            o f increaseof seroprevalenceo f HIV     ipproachand progress on stemming
                                        amongst antenatalwomen aged 15-24         -IIV/AIDS inGuinea-Bissau.
                                        has declined in the population
                                        (comparedto Y1).
       IntermediateResults                    ResultsIndicatorsfor Each               Use of ResultsMonitoring
        One per Component                             Component
ComponentOne: Community and             Component One:                            Component One:
Civil Society initiatives and Capacity
Building

Civil society and the private sectorare 50 priest, predicatorsor marabous in      4nalysis of communities' commitment
carryingout HIV/AIDS related            each regionhave receivedHIV/AIDS          :o the HIV/AIDS fight
prevention, advocacy andpublic          IEC formal training by the end of PY2
awareness creation                                                                \/lassmediaexposureto HIVIAIDS
                                        At least 2 operators and 1managerof       Drevention
Relevant community groups are being      each rural radio have receivedformal
trained                                  training in HIV/AIDS IEC by the end of   Monitoringof geographicalcoverage
                                        PY2
Inthe five pilot regions, PMTCT                                                   Analysis o f condomdistributionand of
servicesare available                   Number of programsthat are                levelof declaredutilization by the
                                        disseminatedon HIV/AIDS in local          population
Condomspromotionand distributionis      languages
widely practiced                                                                  Vulnerable groups aretargetedwith
                                        Number of regions that have at least 1    preventiontraining
The mostvulnerable groupsprotect        PMTC center inplace
themselvesagainst HIV/AIDS                                                        Analysis of the relationbetween
                                         Numberof women who are HIV+ who          knowledge and practices
                                         do full preventioncourse by the
                                         nationalguidelines

                                        % of men and women 15-49 that
                                         reporthavingaccessto condoms

                                         % of sex workers, military, truckers
                                         and market female traders aged 15-49
                                        that reporthavingaccessto condoms

                                         Use of condoms in sexual encounters
                                         outside of primaryrelationshipinthe
                                         last 12monthsby persons 15-19, has
                                         increasedby 10%over 2003 levels by
                                         PY5

                                         Number of sexual partnersoutside of
                                         primaryunion in last twelve months
                                         amongst the 15-49age grouphas
                                         declinedby 10%from the 2003 level
                                         hv PY5




                                                            23

        IntermediateResults                  ResultsIndicators for Each                  Use of ResultsMonitoring
        One per Component                              Component
Component Three: Institutional           ComponentThree:                            ComponentThree:
Developmentfor Program
Management

Project facilitation, coordination,      Reliable and decentralizedmonitoring       Project managementefficiency and
monitoring and evaluation systems are    dataare available and usedto improve       transparency.
fully operational.                       project management

                                         50 regional and 50 national association
                                         membershave received formal training
                                         on the Project's proceduresby end PY1

                                         5 priority regions develop and
                                         implement annual regional planswith
                                         stakeholder participation

                   PDO                            OutcomeIndicators                    Use of OutcomeInformation
Increase access to STIJ HIVJAIDS         Increase from 0% to 20% o f PLWHA          Determine effectiveness and coverage
treatment                                that receive medical assistance(01         o f care services
                                         andlor ART) by PY3

                                         20% increase in men and women aged
                                         15-49reporting STI symptoms inthe
                                         last 12 months, who sought care at a
                                         health facility, in the five pilot regions
                                         by PY3
        IntermediateResults                  ResultsIndicatorsfor Each                   Use of ResultsMonitoring
        One per Component                              Component
ComponentOne:                            ComponentOne:                              ComponentOne:
Community and Civil Society
initiatives and Capacity Building

The community care responseis            50 traditional healersin each region       Analysis of communities' commitment
available                                have received formal training STI /        and attitudesto AIDS andPLWA
                                         HIV/AIDS counseling by PY2

                                         50 traditional "sage femmes" and 20
                                         traditional healersin each region
                                         received training in STI / HIV/AIDS
                                         counseling by PY2
ComponentTwo: Government multi-          ComponentTwo :                             Component Two:
sector response

Structures for STI J HIVJAIDS Care are   All secondaryand tertiary health           The Government is committed and
efficient, available and affordable for  facilities of pilot regions have capacity  capableof investing to prevent
people living in the five pilot regions  to treat STIs by syndromic approach        HIV/AIDS.
                                         (trained staff and no drugs stock out) as
                                         o f PY3
ComponentThree: Institutional            ComponentThree:                            ComponentThree:
Developmentfor Program Mgmt

Efficient management and                 Percentageo f health centerswhere          Donors are informed and sufficiently
implementation arrangements              funding STI / HIV/AIDS prevention and      funding the needs
                                         treatment is available as needed


                                                              24

                  PDO                                OutcomeIndicators                 Use of OutcomeInformation
Reduce socio-economic impacts of             Percentageof orphans receiving          Assess national capacity and solutions
HIV/AIDS,       at      the     individual,  support increased from 3% to 20% by     to mitigate the socio-economicalimpact
household, and community levels and          PY3                                     ofthe epidemic andmonitoring of
strengthen national capacity to respond                                              equity
to the epidemic                              Increasefrom 0 % to 20 % of
                                             PLWHA that receivemedical
                                             assistance (01and/or ART) by PY4
         IntermediateResults                   ResultsIndicatorsfor Each                 Use of ResultsMonitoring
         One per Component                                Component
Component One: Community and                ComponentOne:                            ComponentOne:
Civil Society initiativesand Capacity
Building

Civil society andthe private sector are     Number of community-basedprojects        Analysis o f communities' commitment
carrying out HIV/AIDS mitigation                                                     and attitudesto HIV/AIDS and
initiatives                                 that supportOVC or PLWA and their
                                            families                                 PLWHA


Inthe five pilot regions, civil society     At least 12HIV/AIDS civil society        Evaluate the empowermentand strength
and private sector capacity is built to     initiatives funded by region per year    of civil society and the private sector
implement HIV/AIDS prevention care          from PY2 through PY5
and support
                                            By 2007, at leastUS$1million is
                                            channeledto communities for civil
                                            society initiatives

                                            Over 30 private sector clients funded by
                                            PY4
ComponentTwo: Governmentmulti-              ComponentTwo :                           Component Two:
sector response

Eachministry has included HIV/AIDS          Percentage of ministries including       Monitoring information are regularly
mitigation into its national strategy and   HIV/AIDS mitigation in their work        disseminatedto the council o f ministers
work plan                                   plans

                                            Percentage of agricultural advisers
                                            trained to support rural PLWHA and
                                            their families

                                            Percentage ofjudges and community
                                            leaders trained about the rights o f
                                            PLWHA
Component Three: Institutional              ComponentThree:                           ComponentThree:
Development for Program
Management

TheNAS is issuingreliable, updated, and     Semi-annualregionalizedimpact analysis    Reportdisseminationto all partners(civil
regionalizeddata analysis about             reportsare availableandreliableas of      society, public andprivate sector donors)
HIViAIDS impact development                 project start




                                                               25

  GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROSECT
                          Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription

Component 1: Community and Civil Society Initiatives and Capacity Building
(US$2.5M)
This component will focus on social mobilization and community level responses to
HIV/AIDS. Funds will be set up to expand and strengthen HIV/AIDS activities of
Community Based Organizations (CBOs) and civil society associations themselves or in
contracting Non-Govemment Organizations (NGOs) or private sector entities.             Civil
society associations include religious organization, associations o f persons living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and orphans associations. Funded activities will include
prevention, care, and mitigation support to decrease negative socio-economic impacts.
There will be clearly defined eligibility criteria for organizations to be funded under this
component, which have been elaborated in the Implementation Manual. Groups that
receive funding will be encouraged to focus, but not necessary limit, their activities on
the most vulnerable groups. These include: people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA),
hospital workers, orphans, youth, commercial sex workers, andtruck drivers.

Financial assistance i s especially important for the support o f youth, as it i s one o f the
most vulnerable and spread facilitating groups.        Due to inaccessibility o f television
programming, rural radios will serve as key instruments in the public awareness
campaign. Project funding would be limited to five pilot regions. Once complementary
funding from the GFATM has been acquired, coverage would become national. Funds
will be specifically set aside for two groups:

Orphans, whose numbers are increasing as the epidemic progresses. The program will
not differentiate support to orphans on the basis o f cause as this would be difficult and
inhumane. UNICEF and WFP will be two o f the main implementing partners. The
project will set up a permanent regionalized system, managed by recipient CBOs, faith-
based Organizations and associations with involvement o f representatives o f NGOs and
the private sector, to provide support to identified orphans and to identify and apply best
practice approaches.

PLWHA, who have decreased productive capacity, which further reduces their
resources. It i s essential to help families avoid the poverty trap and adjust available
technologies in the agricultural and private sectors.        It is also important to create
alternative sources o f revenue. Based on the outcome o f a study on how the disease
affects economic capital formation for PLWHA (rural and urban), appropriate responses
will be formulated and tested for roll out duringthe thirdyear.

The conceptual basis for this component is that the factors that determine the spread o f
the HIV virus can only, to a limited extent, be influenced by Government. Where
traditional and cultural values and practices are of critical importance, Civil Society has
to play an important role as a vital partner inthe response to the epidemic. Civil Society
organizations are sometimes better able to understandthe needs and problems o f people,


                                              26

and therefore are in a better position to effect behavioral change, empowerment and
ownership. They can also be innovative and flexible and therefore fast reacting. For the
purposes o f this project, Civil Society Organizations are self-defined community groups
that share a common interest for a specific purpose. They can be organized by age,
gender, profession, etc., and include groups like village workers' associations,
community-based organizations, and faith-based organizations.

This component will support efforts to create HIV/AIDS competent communities by
improving skills and increasing implementation capacity for the implementers,
supporters, and target groups active under the Community and Civil Society Initiatives.

Funded activities will include:

    Training and activities to build HIV/AIDS awareness and leadership capacity in the
   public sector, civil society, and the private sector;
   Formulation of HIV/AIDS awareness training modules for use in public and private
    sector enterprises.    Development and distribution o f specialized packages o f
   Information, Education and Communications (IEC) materials;
   Rural radio equipment rehabilitation and staff technical capacity strengthening. RCs
   will enter into contractualagreements to include specific HIV/AIDS programs intheir
   broadcasts; and
   Funding grant allocation for CBO empowerment and activities and NGO
    strengtheningand activities.

There will be a cap on the number o f grants for sub-projects costing more than US$5,000,
to ensure a community-level focus. Larger NGOs or national organizations will access
these funds only as service providers to individual communities. They could be
contracted directly by the NAS with prior Bank review o f their action plan. Private
sector organizations will also be eligible to access the funds. The maximum sub-project
size will be US$50,000 equivalent. The funds will be managed ina decentralized fashion
through the RCs, who will have approval authority up to US$20,000 equivalent per
subproject. They will receive training and adequate resources to be able to carry out this
task. The subproject selection process will be open and participatory, with representation
of beneficiaries. Duringthe first phase, subprojects will have a maximum duration o f one
year. The regional commissions will meet a minimum o f three times per year to review
project proposals. Selection procedures will be detailed in the implementation manual
and monitored by the regional adviser to avoid conflicts o f interest. All projects over
US$20,000 equivalent will be forwarded to the NAS for approval after an initial RC
review.

At the beginningo f the program major cities will be dividedinto districts, which will be
considered as villages in rural areas. Bissau city will be included in the Bissau region
program. The project will support neighborhood association buildinginthese districts.

Project preparation and approval criteria and procedures will be specified in the
Implementation Manual, and will cover: (i) principles o f operation; (ii)eligible
                                                  the



                                             27

applicants; (iii) institutional arrangements and facilitating agents; (iv) eligible activities;
(v) process o f allocation of resources by province; and (vi) the features of the project
identification, preparation, approval and supervision cycle. Monitoring and evaluation
will involve active participationof CBOs and associations, contracted NGOs, and private
and public sector. They will participate in defining or reviewing what will be monitored,
andhow results can be shared. This will improve implementation.

Component2: GovernmentMulti Sector Response(US$2.2M)
This component will comprise a fund to scale up and strengthenprevention, care, support
and mitigation of the social economic impact of HIV/AIDS through programs/activities
of the public sector. It will support public sector institutions to protect their own
personnel from the impact of HIV/AIDS and, where applicable, to integrate HIV/AIDS
activities into their core business. Sub-contracting by ministries, local authorities and
parastatals will be encouraged in order to make the best use o f the implementation
capacity that may be available outside the public sector. Each public sector agency will
define a work program that will address issues regarding HIV/AIDS among its
employees. Public agencies will also be expected to extend HIV/AIDS services to their
clients and neighboring communities. The component has two sub-components.

Subcomponent1: Supportto Ministry of Health (US$1.3M)
The largest share of funds under this sub-component will be dedicated to supporting the
Ministry o fHealth inits unique role incombating the epidemic. Inrural areas, the public
sector i s the primary source o f modern health care, with only in few areas additional
services being provided by national or international NGOs. The project will partially
finance the Ministry's HIV/AIDS work plan and will include prevention activities,
medical treatments, and the procurement o f HIV/AIDS commodities and services. It will
also include Ministry assistance to other partners inthe multi-sector campaign. Giventhe
special nature o fthis subcomponent, the funds will be for a broad range o f purposes.

Project support will not be sufficient to respond to the Ministry's needs for a national
HIV/AIDS program. Other sources of funding such as from GFATM will be essential to
complement project funding and ensure national coverage.              GFATM has already
committed about US$2 million for support to the Ministry's tuberculosis program. The
IDA financed project will only provide funding at the regional level for activities inthe
pilot regions.

With the objective of scaling up the response of the health sector to the epidemic and to
provide technical leadership on the treatment and care for PLWHA, this sub-component
will include:


0   Strengthening the Integrated Health Network (IHN). The IHN provides voluntary
    counseling and testing and HIV/AIDS related services along the major transportation
    axes where prevalence rates are highest;




                                             28

    Increasing the supply o f drugs and materials, such as condoms, drugs to treat
    opportunistic infections, and anti-retroviral drugs for the reduction o f M T C T and post
    exposure prophylaxis;
    Strengthening clinical laboratory capacity to enable diagnosis and monitoring o f
    ART, including those for CD4 monitoring and diagnosis of opportunistic infections;
    Support to epidemiological surveillance;
    Prevention, diagnosis, andtreatment of STIs;
    Mother to child transmission prevention;
    Improving management o f opportunistic infections, focusing on prevention and
    treatment; and
    Improving monitoring and evaluation o f activities supported under the component
    and measuring the impact o fthe project onthe epidemic.


Subcomponent 2:          Support to other Ministries, Departments and Government
Agencies (US$0.9M)
All other MDAs will be supported in the implementation o f their comprehensive
HIV/AIDS work plans. Ministerial work plans must be presented indecentralized shape
clearly defining regional responsibilities, which will be reviewedand agreed upon by the
RCs.    Some ministries with advanced work plans and responsibility for the highest
priority areas (education, health, agriculture, interior and army forces, youth and sport)
will receive comprehensive work plansupport duringthe first year. Other ministrieswill
receive limitedsupport duringthe first year focused mainly on workplace interventions to
protect their own personnel and to support them in building their own comprehensive
further strategy .

Additional technical assistance will be providedinthe first year to support ministries and
their focal points to strengthentheir work plans inaccordance with the national strategy.
The focal points will be part of the NAS, participating in all coordination and review
meetings.

Comprehensive support i s expected to address the following two broad areas:

    The external impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the specijk ministry/agency: The
    extent to which HIV/AIDS has affected (i) quality, quantity and substance of
                                                     the
    services; (ii) ability to supply the required services; (iii) organization o f the
                   the                                              the
    sector; (iv) the role of service providers; (v) human resources policy and management
    practices; (vi) the planning and management o f sector resources; and (vii) the
    availability o f resources to the sector; and

    The internal impact of the epidemic relative to the work of the spec@
    ministry/department/agency: Support will focus on the prevention o f further spread
    among ministerial staff and facilitation of access to care and support for affected and
    infected employees andtheir families.




                                               29

The range o f activities to be considered withinwork plans o feach ministrywill include:

0   Capacity building for the mainstreaming o f HIV/AIDS-related activities into regular
    work programs;
a   IEC campaigns, including promotion o f condom use, for staff and client awareness.
    The campaigns are to ensure a sustainable behavior change among its staff and
    clients;
e   Promotion o f staff access to condoms;
0   Facilitation o fHIV/AIDS social support network provision for all staff;
0   Impact studies to investigate the qualitative and quantitative consequences o f the
    epidemic on specified sectors and analysis o f possible and appropriate responses; and
0   Policies regarding the posting and location o f staff.

Ministries and subordinate institutions will be supported under this component in the
development and implementation o f HIV/AIDS related programs directed at their own
personnel and their families (particularly high risk staff such as soldiers, police,
agriculture agents, teachers, health workers). Public servants and their families will be
provided with HIV/AIDS education, training, condoms, and support for caring for those
who are infected or affected.

The activities will also focus on encouraging behavioral change and not stigmatizing the
illness at the work place. To combat stigmatization, funds will be provided to address its
legal aspects and improve the rights o f PLWHA, orphans and widow(er)s. Activities will
include technical assistance, studies, training, and study tours to facilitate the
improvement o f the legal framework and will target lawyers, deputies in the National
Assembly, journalists, communities, associations andNGO leaders.

Support will be provided to facilitate outreach programs o f ministries. In each o f the 5
key ministries (Education, Health, Agriculture, Army, Youth and Sport), a Focal Point
has been appointed and i s supported by ministerial and/or departmental management
committees designated to oversee the design and implementation o f HIV/AIDS related
policies and action plans. The Focal Points, appointed full time for the program, will
receive training and day-to-day guidance on their roles and responsibilities from the
NAS, of which they will be an active part. The project will fund their basic office
equipment and operating costs.

To reflect the highly decentralized nature o f Government, the component will be broken
into national, regional, and local initiatives. Additionally, each ministry, key ministry or
not, will conduct activities relevant to the areas of its comparative advantage, for
example:

Ministry of Education

e   Development and application o f lessons which seek behavioral change through a
    teaching approach which targets both skills and knowledge and includes negotiation,
    resistingpeer pressure, self-esteem, communication and assertion;


                                              30

0 Promotion of school and student association-led HIV/AIDS initiatives in primary,
  secondary andtertiary educationinstitutions;
0 Monitoring and evaluation of the HIV/AIDS impact in the education sector in
  collaboration with other relevant ministries;
0 Integration of HIV/AIDS IECs in curricula at all levels of the formal education
  system including teacher training colleges. Best practices from other countries,
  particularly from Brazil, will be usedto improve the dissemination process; and
0 Promotion of safe sex practices, includingthe use of condoms, among sexually active
  youth.

Ministry of Financeand Planning

0 Provisiono f cost models to determine the cost o f HIV/AIDSrelated interventions;
0 Provision of national and sector HIV/AIDS-related projection models for national
  humanresource and economic development planning; and
0 Appropriate budgetsto support national HIV/AIDS activities.

Ministry of Defense

0 Promotionof safe sex practices, includingthe use of condoms, among its employees;
  and
0 Creation of HIV/AIDS social support networksfor its employees.

Ministry ofJustice

0 National legislation review to identify and promote laws that protect people living
  with or affected by HIV/AIDS, in particular regarding the property rights of
  widow(er)s and orphans;
0 Provisionof HIV/AIDS IEC to prisoners and people indetention; and
0 Training of National Assembly members, judges, CBO and NGO leaders as agents
  for defending PLWHA and orphanrights.

Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries


0 Research and test specific services support to those families affected by HIV/AIDS;
  and
0 Facilitate general training andinformationo fproducer organizations.

Ministry of Transportation

0 Provision of HIV/AIDS IEC to its employees and water and other transport workers;
0 Promotion of safe sex practices, including the use of condoms, among its employees
  and commercial vehicle/maritime drivers; and
0 Creation of HIV/AIDS social support networks for its employees and commercial
  vehicle/maritime drivers.



                                           31

Component3: InstitutionalDevelopmentfor ProgramManagement(US$2.3M)
This component will provide support to NAC, whose broad responsibilities will evolve
mainly around advocacy, and providing leadership for the multi-sectoral response to
HIV/AIDS. NAC is not envisioned to have implementationor funding responsibilities.
The project designacknowledges the mandate o f the NAC and creates opportunities to
support N A C inthe implementation o f its mandate. Additional support will be givento
N A C for a semi-annual one-day information workshop.

The project will also support the National AIDS Secretariat (NAS), including its
regional components and focal points, to fulfill its national HIV/AIDS coordination
mandate, technical support, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation.

Support will be givento the N A S for:


0   Establishment o f an effective secretariat and networks at national, regional, and
    district levels;
0   Guarantee a highlevel technical references and advisory capacity;
0   Establishment o f financial management and procurement systems;
0   Resource mobilization; and
0   Monitoring& evaluation.

Below are the detailed descriptions o f lessons learned as listed inthe maintext:

Politicalleadershipandcommitment
The successive Governments o f Guinea-Bissau have indicated their firm commitment to
the fight against HIV/AIDS. The successful examples o f HIV epidemic control in
countries like Senegal and Uganda were facilitated by political leadership drivenby good
epidemiological data, effective programs, and vibrant activist civil society participation.
The project will support decision makers at national and regional levels. They will be
informed, invited to participate in semiannual workshops and supervision missions, and
asked for recommendation.

Vulnerabilityfactors are key drivers of the epidemic
Underlyingvulnerability factors among populations drives the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The
combination o f poverty, gender disparities, .and information asymmetry provide very
fertile soil for HIV infection rates to rapidly grow.       Any attempt at controlling the
epidemic will have to address the vulnerability factors.       This project focuses on the
vulnerable groups.

Civilsociety organizationsas a processof empowerment
The affected communities find themselves facing multifaceted challenges, but have
limitedresources to respond. Inaddition, short term focused strategies may not meet the
need for long term rehabilitation and healing in those communities. Community
participation engages the people to fight the epidemic. With external resources and local
capacity building, communities and civil society association will be more empowered in


                                             32

their response, which is more likely to be sustainable. This project will have a specific
component on civil society-led initiatives.

Multi-sector approach
It has been widely recognized that the HIV/AIDS epidemic extends far and beyond the
health sector. The multi-dimensional nature o f the epidemic and its impact warrant a
change in paradigm from a biomedical to a development one. Inthis context, the multi-
sector approach in HIV prevention, care and mitigation offer best chances of success.
This project will involve the active participationof all sectors at all levels.

Beneficiariesmust take the leadto defineorientationand project evaluation
The risk is that funds would be usurped by public sector agencies and well-connected
and/or large NGOs. One o f the main objectives o f the project i s to improve the life
quality o f the victims: PLWHA and orphans. One o f the priorities o f the project will
therefore be to support capacity buildingo f associations by and for PLWHA and orphans
so they will be able to orient project activities to addressing their real needs.

Focuson knowledgebuilding and evidence-basedinterventions
There i s a huge deficit o f knowledge, best practices, and resources to build strong
evidence based prevention and care interventions. There i s lack o f knowledge on areas
such as preventing Mother-To-Child Transmission, ART, use of vaginal microbicides,
and treatment o f STIs, prophylaxis, and opportunistic infections. This project will adopt
a progressive approach initially supporting well-designed socio-cultural research
activities and pilot operations for larger intervention. The project will benefit from tested
approaches in other countries such as Senegal and Brazil. Such research findings could
provide firmer bases for specific interventions.

Ruralradios are crucial
They can efficiently deliver updated messages to the largely rural population. The project
will support the completion o f national coverage by rural radios, managed by
community-based associations and broadcasting in national languages. It will also
provide technical and management skills strengthening.

The use of indigenousknowledgeand practices
Indigenous knowledge and practices could be complementary in the efforts to fight
HIV/AIDS, InMozambique, the involvement o f traditional healers had a higher impact
at a lower cost. Along similar lines, the Bank i s currently piloting the use o f traditional
channels o f communication to deliver culturally congruent messages in prevention o f
HIV/AIDS inWest Africa. Local practices o f community orphan support have beenused
successfully in many countries. Inthis regard, this project will encourage access to and
use o f appropriate indigenous knowledge and practices that have been shown to work in
the fight against HIV/AIDS.

Role clarity betweenNACLNASand implementingagencies
Channeling significant resources to institutions that were set up to coordinate and monitor
project activities introduces a temptation for those institutions to venture into



                                               33

implementation. The N A C would therefore be from the beginning limitedin its activities
to policymaking and project implementation oversight, and not involved in project
implementation. The NAS will be supportedunder the project to coordinate and monitor
the technical activities, whereas a wide spectrum of civil society organizations, CBOs,
faith-based organizations, associations, and public and private institutions will be
supported to implement the project activities with contracted support from public and
private sector including NGOs.

Complexity of supervision of MAP projects
Given the innovative M A P approach andmultitude o f stakeholders and partners which all
lead to the relative complexity o f the projects, supervision o f M A P projects requires more
attention and resources than average projects. The experience suggests that supervision
teams for MAP projects should draw on the resources o f partners, particularly bilateral
and other stakeholders. The composition o f the supervision teams should also be multi-
sector and multi-donor.

Robust Monitoring and Evaluation
The key features o f MAP require that robust M&E systems and plans need to be
developed through a participatory involving stakeholders who will be involved in
implementing M&E activities according to their expertise areas. Sufficient financial
resources with a specific budget line and consequent skills strengthening support are
made available for M&E under the Project.

Good Donor Co-ordination
Effective coordination among development partners can significantly reduce the
transaction costs. Common arrangements for program reviews, M&E, planning o f
financial and technical assistance, support missions, funding o f programs or program
components are all areas that will be pursued in close cooperation with the NAC/NAS,
UNAIDS, Global Fundand other partners.




                                              34

   GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBALMITIGATION SUPPORTPROJECT
                                                 Annex 5: ProjectCosts


ProjectCost By Componentand/or Activity                                                 Local            Foreign              Total
                                                                                        US$M              US$M               US$M
Community and Civil Society Initiatives and                                                1 .o               1.3                 2.3
Capacity Building
Government Multi-sector Response                                                           0.8                1.4                 2.2
Institutional Development for Program                                                      1.2                0.8                 2.0
Management




Total Baseline Cost                                                                                                                0.0
  Physical Contingencies                                                                                                           0.2
  Price Contingencies                                                                                                              0.3
                                             TotalProjectCosts'                                                                    7.0
                                    Interest during construction                                                                   0.0
                                                         Front-end Fee                                                             0.0
                                    TotalFinancingRequired                                                                         7.0

'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$O.O, and the total project cost, net o ftaxes, is US$O.O million. Therefore, the share of project
cos! net o ftaxes is 100%.




                                                                    35

  GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT
                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

The project will support the National AIDS Program and will be under direct supervision
o f the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Policy making will be the responsibility o f the
National AIDS Council (NAC).       Coordination, technical support, and financing on the
national level will be carried out by the National AIDS Secretariat (NAS) directed by a
National Secretary.     The Regional Committees (RCs) will lead regional policy and
activity implementation on local and regional level. Implementation will be performed
by Community Based Organizations (CBOs), associations, public and private sector,
which will contract NGOs and technical assistance when needed.

Institutionalarrangements.

The NationalAIDS Council(NAC)

The N A C is housed inthe Prime Minister's Office and responsible for providing strategic
direction and policy leadership. It i s headed by the N A C President (Prime Minister), and
includes 1/3 representation from Government, 1/3 from civil society and 1/3 from private
sector including NGOs. The N A C was formally established by Prime ministerial decree
inMarch2004.

The NationalAIDS SecretariatPAS)

The Government has agreed to implementation procedures that would help expedite
project implementation and outsource project implementation. Given the post-conflict
status o f Guinea-Bissau, key implementationaspects cannot be outsourced to one or more
private firms as such capacity does not exist in-country at this time and obtaining this
from abroad would not be cost-effective.         For other IDA projects this has meant
establishing Project Management Units (PMUs) staffed with national consultants. This
has worked and i s confirmed by positive financial management and procurement
assessments by Bank supervision missions. Building a P M U takes, however, time and
risks delays in project implementation. It has therefore been agreed that the project
would initially use the financial management and procurement staff inplace at the Private
Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (PSRDP) until N A S technical staff have
been hired and sufficiently trained.      The PSRDP has satisfactory procurement and
financial managementprocedures and trained staff. Inaddition, it has sufficient capacity
to ensure the efficient management o f these activities during project preparation and take-
off. It has also been agreed that all seven (national) technical staff o f the National AIDS
Secretariat (NAS) would be hired on a contractual basis through an open (internationally
advertised), competitive and transparent process to manage implementation activities
such as behavioral surveys, operational research, financial and program management,
monitoring and evaluation, etc. All technical staff would receive compensation based on
national expert standards to attract broad interest and would have annually renewable
contracts with clear performance criteria.     These arrangements are aimed at ensuring
efficiency, accountability and transparency o f project management and reducing


                                             36

implementation related and fiduciary risks. NAS staff selection would be done by a
broad committee, including members of the HIV/AIDS thematic group, as well as UNDP
Agencies (including UNICEF), to ensure independence from Government. The World
Bank no objection for each selected NAS staffwill be requested before appointment. An
independent institutional assessment would be carried out within twelve months of grant
effectiveness to ensure efficiency of arrangements2

The NAS will include a President, one national secretary, seven national technical staff,
five focal points inkey ministries,and two staff per region: one regional adviser andone
regional accountant who would support the RC. National and regional staff will be
recruited through a transparent and competitive process and receive annually renewable
contracts. These would only be renewed upon satisfactory rating by an independent
evaluator two months prior to the end of the contract. Representatives of orphans,
PLWHA, NGOs, CBOs, and ministries will participate in the evaluation process. Given
the difficult post-conflict financial situation the project will provide contractual salaries,
equipment,training, technical assistance, andoperating costs ofthe NAS.

The regionalcommittees (RCs)

At the regional level SNP implementation will be the responsibility of the RC, which
would include representatives from regional ministries (regional focal points), civil
society and private sector representatives (one third o f representatives for each). The RC
will be presided by the Regional Governor's nominee and will be coordinated by a
Regional Coordinator, who will be elected by CBOs, including PLWHA associations,
orphans associations, associations of youth and women, and regional focal points
representingtheir ministries.

The Mandates:

NAC

NAC will be the national HIV/AIDSpolicy maker. Itwill overseethe national HIV/AIDS
program and related projects. It will have an advocacy role to improve fund raising and
set policy and strategy.       It will organize two semi-annual workshops where all
stakeholders can meet to discuss progress inimplementing the SNP.

NAS

NAS is an autonomous structure mandatedby the Government. Under the responsibility
o f its Head (the National Secretary) it will perform day-to-day management ofthe SNP, it
will be responsible for ensuring consistency of all aspects of the national response
including the national strategy, day-to-day coordination of the program, mobilization of
resources, and M&E. The project will support the NAS to manage the SNP at the
national level and in five pilot regions. The NAS will present annual work plans and
regular progress reports of the program and the proposed project and will provide

  These arrangementswere confirmedduringnegotiations.


                                              37

information on the use o f project funds, procurement progress, and findings from M&E.
It will also organize annual reviews for all partners and stakeholders, including annual
financial and technical audits as detailed inthe project implementationmanual.

NAS will coordinate and facilitate activities implemented by civil society. Once RCs
have approved sub-projects for funding, NAS will transfer the funds using the Western
Union system to the organization responsible for implementing the sub-project,
informing the regional adviser and accountant. Regional accountants under the oversight
o f the NAS will follow-up to fulfill fiduciary responsibilities.         Modalities for
disbursementswill be clearly spelled out inthe ImplementationManual. The Ministryo f
Economy and Finance would be informed monthly on disbursement status. The NAS will
also contract out capacity building o f the RCs, NGOs, CBOs, faith-based organizations,
and other groups.

NAS including regional advisers, regional accountants and the five key focal points will
hold bi-monthly meetings to review national program and project implementation
progress. These two or three-day meetingswill be located inone o f the regions (selected
on a rotating basis). Travel and subsistence cost will be supported by the project. An
analysis o f the project's technical and financial performance over the preceding two
months and an action plan for the following two months will be the core part o f that
meeting.

NAS will convene two annual National Forums to review the status o f the HIV/AIDS
Campaign. The first will be timed to coincide with the international HIV/AIDS Day
(December first) while the second will be approximately six months later (May/June).
The second will coincide with the preparation o f the National Finance Law for the next
year. The events will bring together all key actors active in the HIV/AIDS campaign,
from both Government and civil society, for two days o f review, reflection, guidance and
training. ?'he second meeting will be preceded by a number o f workshops at the regional
level. In order to ensure transparency, the regional events will also be used to publicly
display information on planned and completed activities, financial accounting and audits
(financial and technical).

Each Ministry will ensure that project activities are aimed at mitigating the impact o f
HIV/AIDS in their sectors and that prevention activities are integrated into sector work
programs. They will also ensure that grant resources will be used for intendedpurposes
and towards eligible expenditures according to their contract. The Focal Point in each
ministry will coordinate project implementation at the ministry level, regularly update
work plans, and be the primary interlocutor with the NAS. Focal points representingthe
different ministries will submit their regional and local administration plans to the RC,
which will contract them upon agreement.

The RegionalCommittees

RCs will have the responsibility to define the regional policy in accordance with the
national strategy. The RC will review the proposals from civil society, and the public and



                                             38

private sectors at the regional level.     Its approval authority i s limited, however to
US$20,000. With the help o f the regional adviser it will monitor the contracted regional
action plans and collect the related data. The Regional Committees will meet at least
three times per year.    The project would support a full time regional adviser and a
regional accountant under the umbrella o f each RC.

Partners Response Organization

The Civil Society HIV/AIDSresponse:
The civil society includes CBOs and associations. The civil society responses will be
coordinated through the RCs as outlined above. This component will be community
driven, and the projects to be funded will be identified and proposed by the civil society
organizations. The RC will select projects from a menu o f broadly-proposed activities.
The process starts when a civil society organization preparesa proposal for funding of an
HIV/AIDS activity to the RC. A facilitating agency such as anNGO canbe contracted by
a civil society organization to provide assistance inthe proposal preparation if requested.
The proposal i s channeled to the RCs for review and approval during its regular sessions.

The Private SectorHIV/AIDS response:
The private sector can prepare action plansto be involved inthe campaign. To prepare a
proposal, enterprises can contract NGOs, hire private technical assistance, or request
support from regional advisers and the national NAS staff. Trade and industry chambers
can also prepare national or regional programs related to HIV/AIDS mitigation and solicit
support for its members. All proposed activities must be reviewed and agreed upon by
the RCs.     Expertise o f the ILO with private sector HIV/AIDS mitigation support
programs will be examined.

The Public Sector HIV/AIDS response:
Each Ministry, at the regional level, will prepare an annual action plan. The focal point at
the regional levelresponsible for the preparationcanrequest technical assistance from the
regional adviser, central NAS staff, or central focal points.      The RC will review the
action plan and ifagreed, the RC will contract and monitor it.

For all proposed activities by public, private, or civil society, the regional level will be
the first point o f entry. The national level will decide only activities that exceed
US$20,000, cannot be handled at the regional level or activities, or where significant
economies o f scale exist.




                                             39

     InstitutionalArrangements for the NationalStrategic PlanImplementation:

                                 The National Council (NAC)

                  (1/3 Administration - 1/3 Civil Society - 1/3 Private Sector)
                             The Prime Minister: President of NAC


                                    Policy Making Oversight

                               The National Secretariat (NAS)

                                      The President of NAS
                                     The National Secretary
                              5 Focal points in the key ministries
                                 7 technical staff (contractual)
                                       5 Regional advisers
                                     5 Regional accountants
                       Technical Coordination - Financing - Monitoring

                                  Regional Committee (RC)

                  The President of RC (Nominated by the Regional Governor)
                                 Regional Coordinator (elected)

                       Civil Society - Private Sector - NGOs - Ministries
                                       Representatives of:


                                         Implementation



OperationalArrangements

ImplementationManual
An implementation manual is being prepared by the Government in close collaboration
with representatives from civil society and donors. The manual will detail the Project's
institutional and implementation arrangements, the respective responsibilities and
mandates o f each participating identity, and the functional relationships between
participants. It will define procedures and eligibility criteria for review and approval o f
projects proposals. It will include the contractual arrangements between the N A S and
implementing agencies and standard contracts for a broad range o f activities. It will
detail procurement arrangements and financial management requirements, including
accounting and reporting norms at national, regional, and local levels. Completion o f the
manual with all its annexes i s a condition o f Grant effectiveness.




                                               40

 The manual will also specify the approval authority for the differentlevels:

Approving entity     Size of project proposals (US$ equivalent)
NAS                  All proposals from Central Ministries, Ce'ntral Government Agencies, National
                     Associations, National NGOs. Also regional proposals in excess of US$20,000.

RC                   Approval of proposals from civil society: CBOs, NGOs, regional and local
                     associations, regional private sector, and public services: up to US$20,000.

 Disbursement of funds civil, private, or public entities will be in accordance with the
 eligibility criteria and terms specified inthe operational manual. Eachproposal from any
 entity will include an action plan.

 ImplementingAgencies

 Project fundedactivities will be implementedby public and private sectors including civil
 society groups, and both non and for profit organizations. The project will be
 implemented incrementally, starting with entities, which already have HIV/AIDS work
 plans and experience.        Coverage will be extended as implementation capacity is
 strengthened and work plans prepared. All funded activities will be contracted by the
 CRs or the NAS.

 (a) PublicEntities

 At local and regional levels, the public entities (ministries and parastatals) will prepare
 project proposals and submit them directly to the RCs. At the national level, public
 entities will support the preparation and implementation of their regional teams. The
 NAS will fund directly to the local and regional level after RC approval and contract
 signature. The ministries will implement their respective plans through their existing
 regional offices.

 National public entities can also submit financing requests directly to,the NAS for
 national (cross-regional) activities inorder to decrease the cost. The NAS points will also
 provide administrative and technical support for SNP implementation, including relevant
 guidelines, training, and M&E.

 A formal contract including a six-month action plan and budget with agreed input and
 output indicators would guide the relationships betweenthe ministries, the NAS, and the
 CRs. The Ministry o f Finance will be informed about project funding for each of the
 ministriesat boththe national andregional levels.

 (b) Civil Society Organizations

 CBOs and associations operating inonly one regionand with a proposal costing not more
 than US$20,000, will present their project proposals to the respective RC. The RC
 according to the budget allocated to the region and after technical and financial review by



                                                  41

the regional adviser, the regional accountant, and, if necessary technical support by the
NAS, will review and where appropriate approve the proposal. Both the related RC and
the NAS must approve regional level proposals for more than US$20,000. Once the RC
approves proposals of less than US$20,000, the NAS Financing Service will
automatically fund them. Implementing agencies operating nationally or inmore than one
region will submit their proposals directly to the NAS. The NAS review will be required
only for tasks that are technically complicated, involve more than one region or exceed
us$20,000.

(c) NGOs

In general, NGOs are service providers. As service providers they will need to be
contracted by the project beneficiary organizations (civil society organizations, and
public or private entities). Exceptionally, NGOs willing to be consideredas civil society
organizations will have to demonstrate the appropriateness of their mandate,
representative membership, transparent management procedures, and account for their
funding. At the beginning ofthe project the role o fNGOs will be defined andthey will be
eligible to receive support to help them reinforce their technical capacity, management
ability, and accountability.

(d) Private Sector

Private sector enterprises, such as the Chamber o f Industry and Trade, can submit action
plans with budgets to RCs or NAS according to the location and type of envisaged
actions.

Donor Coordination

To date, the donors are channeling most of their small support through NGOs, the UN
System, or civil society organizations. Due to the diversity of implementation channels
and contracting mechanisms, it is difficult to track all activities, or account for all donor
funds. The principal bilateral and multilateral actors include: the French cooperation,
WHO, and UNICEF.          A UNDP thematic group meets regularly to coordinate UNDP
support to HIV/AIDS and health activities. This group will continue its crucial role in
support coordination and it will progressively bestow that role on the NAC and the NAS
during the first year of the project. The NAC/ NAS will use the semiannual meetings to
report to Government and donors on the status of implementation of the National Action
Plans. The meetings will also serve as a venue for raising additional funds as donors gain
confidence inthe ability of the NAC andthe NAS to account for funds.

Project Monitoring

There will be only one M&ES for both the Project and the National Program. The
GFATM appraisal team has agreed to this. The project will support the national M&E
system. A specific line will be includedinthe NAS budget to charge M&E expenses on
national andregional levels. PleasereviewAnnex 9 for detailed M&E information.



                                             42

The aim o fthe M&E system will be to:

    Identify intra-country variations inHIV/AIDS epidemiology to support the design o f
    effective HIV/AIDSprevention, care, and impact mitigation operations;
    Identify trends in behavioral attitudes and knowledge, to inform project design and
    track obtained results;
0   Provide best practice examples; and
0   Provide information on HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and impact mitigation services
    undertaken by implementingagencies of the public sector and civil society, as well as
    their coverage, quality, cost-effectiveness and access. This will provide information
    to the management and services providers at every level operations improvement.

Program and project M&E will be based on a broad range o f measures, including
specified indicators and process and output measures to capture project performance in
the intermediate term. An M&E manual, o f which an advanced draft will be included in
the Project Implementation Manual as a condition o f Grant effectiveness, will be
finalized within five months o f Grant effectiveness and inform and substance satisfactory
to IDA.

Project outcomes will be measured employing data from the HIV sentinel surveillance,
baseline, and end-point population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices, and
behavior. Service utilization and special studies commissioned to assess outcome in
specific areas not easily addressed by population-based surveys will also be used.
Monitoring o f the project will be carried out usingproject-based data, beneficiary inputs,
andprogram reviews.

The NAS through direct contracting and the RCs will monitor overall project
implementation, assessing the performance o f project implementation as well as the
effectiveness and efficiency o f implementation at national, regional and local levels.
Ministries will also monitor their respective mandates. The activities o f civil society and
private organizations will be monitored based on their contract performance.

Central NAS staff, focal points, and regional advisers will supervise overall project
implementation and will meet every two months to discuss progress under each
implementingagency. They will have mandatory field visit included into their monthly
budgeted action plan.      The N A C and the N A S will organize semiannual project
development reviews, and, together with the donors, a joint project launch workshop
within a month o f project effectiveness. Its main purpose will be to strengthen project
monitoringandreporting requirements.

To simplify the system, it will include a single goveming flowchart and database to
ensure a single structured form. It will also have a single unitary system, based on
nationally agreed data collection forms and pathways, leading to a single database.
External technical assistance from the World Bank and other donors will be required for
system refinement and startup assistance. Periodic assessments o f key aspects of the



                                              43

program will be organized and contracted by the NAS. These will provide the
background and material for annual Learning Events and Progress Reviews by all
stakeholders, starting at the regional level and leading to a National Assessment. Other
learning events and study tours will be built into the program.

ProjectEvaluation(PerformanceAssessment)

Once the M&E system for the national program i s finalized, one o f the first priorities o f
the NAS will be to determinewhether the existing data provide a sufficient baseline for
the program impact and outcome indicators. If not, new data will be collected from the
onset o f the project and the feasibility o f the indicators may need to be reviewed. The
program evaluation process will evolve around the annual reviews, when the existing
data collected through the M&E system will be collated and analyzed specifically relative
to the achievements o f the goals set by the project and program. During the project
preparation process, an attempt was made to set realistic and achievable targets. While
project progress will be monitored regularly, it should be possible to evaluate definitively
whether the project is moving in the right direction or not and, and at the end o f the
project, assess its impact. In the event that significant weaknesses appear, the annual
reviews will provide a timely opportunity to address these. It is expected that these
reviews, as well as the final evaluation o f the project, will be participatory and will
include beneficiary assessments.

Supervision

The RCs, assisted by the RegionalFocalPoints, will supervise project activities at district
and sub-district levels. Staff from the NAS, cooperating partners, and the Bank's Task
Team will make visits to the field to monitor the performance o f implementing agencies
at the regional levels. The N A S will monitor and review overall program implementation
and meet regularly with HIV/AIDS focal points o f the various ministries to discuss
progress under each ministry.

The NAS will organize semiannual project reviews to assess the performance o f the
National Program, including this project, its components and its contribution to the
national effort to reduce the spread and impact of HIV/AIDS. Semi-annual supervision
missions, preferably jointly with other donors, will be planned.       In addition, timely
mission will be scheduled to provide specific technical implementation support.

Specific areas o f the review will include technical and operational aspects o f
implementation. The reviews will draw on the information generated from routine
monitoring, conducted studies, and any other relevant information. Project reviews will
culminate in stakeholder meetings, which will be held in May or June and will form a
planning basis for the next year.

These meetings will be usedto share information on trends, best practices, and to provide
general technical and financial information. The World Bank's Task Team charged with
the supervision will cooperate closely with all partners involved in project financing to
achieve multi-sectoral expertise based on each partner's relative technical strengths. In


                                              44

view of the new institutional structures being put in place, the multiplicity o f
implementing agencies, and the consequent need for broad consultations, participation
and coordination, an intensive supervision strategy i s proposed as essential to the success
of the project.




                                           45

  GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT
          Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements


ExecutiveSummary and Conclusions

The Government has agreed to implementation procedures that would help expedite
project implementation and outsource project implementation. Given the post-conflict
status of Guinea-Bissau key implementation aspects cannot be outsourced to one or more
private firms as such capacity does not exist in-country at this time and obtaining this
from abroad would not be cost-effective.       For other IDA projects this has meant
establishing Project Management Units (PMUs) staffed with national consultants. This
has worked and is confirmed       by positive financial management and procurement
assessments by Bank supervision missions. Building a P M U takes, however, time and
risks delays in project implementation. It has therefore been agreed that the project
would initially use the financial management and procurement staff inplace at the Private
Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (PSRDP) until NAS technical staff have
been hired and sufficiently trained.     The PSRDP has satisfactory procurement and
financial management procedures and trained staff. Inaddition, it has sufficient capacity
to ensure the efficient management o f these activities duringproject preparation andtake-
off.

The objective of the financial assessment was to determine the necessary action plan to
get the Project quickly offthe ground. The following issues were identified:

         Staffing,
         Administrative, Accounting and financial manual,
    m    Accounting software,
        External audit,
        Flow o f funds.

The action plan is detailed below and has been agreed with the Government and the
President o fthe NAS during negotiations.
Staffing

The NAS Financial Manager will report to the NAS' Secretary and be responsible for
ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be implemented as
agreed with Government, the World Bank and, ifapplicable, other cooperating partners.

Given the complexity o f fund flow arrangements, which include many and widely
dispersedbeneficiaries, many small transactions, andmultiplelayers o f accountability,




                                            46

NAS will have two accountants at the central level, working under the responsibility of
the financial manager:
     ..  the first will be in charge of the Community and Civil Society Initiatives (Part A
         o f the project) andthe Government Multi-sector Responses (Part B) at the central
         level.
         the second will be at the level of chief accountant and in charge of the regional
         disbursementsandsupervision of the five regional accountants.

At the regional level, a regional accountant will be appointed to support each RC. The
project will be implemented in five regions namely Bissau, Gabou, Bafata, Ohio and
Cacheu.

The recruitment of the financial manager will be an effectiveness condition. At the
regional level, the recruitment of regional accountants will be done progressively
following the setting up ofthe RCs.

Ithas also beenagreedthat all seven (national) technical staff ofthe NAS would be hired
on a contractual basis through an open (internationally advertised), competitive and
transparent process to manage implementation activities such as behavioral surveys,
operational research, financial and program management, monitoring and evaluation, etc.
All technical staff would receive compensation based on national expert standards to
attract broad interest and would have annually renewable contracts with clear
performance criteria.         These arrangements are aimed at ensuring efficiency,
accountability and transparency of project management and reducing implementation
related and fiduciary risks. NAS staff selection would be done by a broad committee,
including members o f the HIV/AIDS thematic group, as well as UNDP Agencies
(including UNICEF), to ensure independence from Government. The World Bank no
objection for each selectedNAS staff will be requested before appointment. Inaddition,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that NAC and NAS would be autonomous
from Government with an independent board comprised two-thirds of non-public sector
representatives. An independent institutional assessment would be carried out within
twelve months of grant effectivenessto ensure efficiency of arrangement^.^
Accounting Policiesand Procedures,Reportingand Monitoring

The Financial Management System (FMS) objective will be to help management
effectively and efficiently provide project resources to intended beneficiaries and thus
achieving the objectives. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing quarterly,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will allow management to
plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress or lack thereof. The
FMS will allow for the proper recording of all project-related transactions as well as
timely monitoringof expendituresper category, implementing agency, and component.




  These arrangementswere confirmed duringnegotiations.


                                               47

Given the lack o f capacity at the beginning o f the project at all levels, to adequately
manage project funds, it was decided, in keeping with the principles o f the umbrella
MAP, that extraordinary implementation arrangements were warranted to facilitate the
decentralized civil society-level response. Moreover, the project i s expected to conduct
training on basic bookkeeping for the civil society organizations including at community
level. As part o f the Project Implementation Manual, a manual detailing administrative,
accounting and financial procedures will be prepared and submitted for Bank no
objection. This manual will include accounting policies and procedures, definition o f
respective duties with a good segregation, budgeting system and all relevant
administrative and financial procedures, and relations between the components o f the
project. It will also cover the decentralized levels o f the project and a specific section
will cover civil society initiatives.

The Bank standard procedures related to financial management, accounting and auditing
will apply to the funds disbursed to either public or private institutions, as set out in
Annual Financial Reporting andAuditingfor WorldBank-Jinanced activities.

To ensure consistent financial reporting, detailed procedures will be developed for project
accounting based on IDA'S experience with other decentralized projects.             Internal
accounting controls for the project will be set out in detail in the financial procedures of
the manual and will be satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that accounts will
be properly recorded and resources safeguarded.

NAS will prepare quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMR). The quarterly reports
will cover financial management, procurement and physical progress monitoring, and
cover all activities financed underthe project regardless o fthe source o f funding.

The first FMRshall beprovidedto IDA no later than 45 days after the end o fthe calendar
year after the effectiveness o f the Grant. Thereafter, each FMR shall be provided to IDA
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter.

A financial management review o f the Project's progress will be made by a the Bank
within 18 months o f Grant effectiveness to assess the FMS and decide whether or not the
project can be qualified for FMRbased disbursement.

The annual financial statements o fthe project will be prepared be preparedinaccordance
with the new guidelines o f IDA : Annual Financial Reporting and Auditing for World
Bank-Financed Activities.


FinancialManagementSystem

The project FMS will be computerized with software acceptable to IDA. The chart o f
accounts for the national and regional program will be clearly designedto allow reporting
to requirements o f each o f the donors. It will be installed at the NAS and each of the
RCs. The FMS will be managed at the central level by the financial manager supported




                                             48

by the two accountants. The FMS mustbe inplace, satisfactory to IDA, as a condition of
effectiveness.

Audit

The NAS will be responsible for the preparation and production o f the annual financial
statements in accordance with IDA new guidelines: Annual Financial Reporting and
Auditingfor World Bank-Financed Activities. The project consolidated annual financial
statements will be audited by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA according
to detailed terms o f reference approved by IDA. The auditors' report should be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end o f a fiscal year. The auditors'
report should include a management letter. The auditor will be recruited as a condition o f
effectiveness.

Flow of funds

Giventhe weaknesses o f the formal banking system, the project will use Western Union
(WU) for the disbursement o f funds to implement regional level activities. Western
Union i s expected to be represented in all the pilot regions by grant effectiveness. NAS
will use similar arrangements as already in effect in for other Bank projects and reflect
these inthe manual. The normal fees o f WU are five percent o f the amount sent. It was
agreed that the consultant in charge o f the implementation manual would prepare a
Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) with WU to reflect these arrangements. The fee
would also be negotiated.

Summary of ProjectDescription

See SectionB o fthe maintext.

Summaryof CountryFinancialManagementissues

The IntegratedFiduciary Assessment for Guinea-Bissau is scheduled for FY06.There are
a number o f concerns about public financial management. The recent Public
ExpendituresReviewhighlighted some o f them. However, those concerns will not impact
this project because o f the specific arrangements for the flow o f funds, outside o f
Government.


Impact of ProcurementArrangements

At the time o f the financial management capacity assessment, the Project's procurement
assessment was under preparation. It was therefore not possible to assess the impact o f
the procurement       assessment findings on the Project's         financial   management
arrangements. However, the procurement arrangements described in Annex 8 are not
expected to have an impact on the financial management o f the project.




                                            49

DisbursementArrangements

See section D.3 o f the main text o f the PAD relatedto the disbursementarrangements.

RiskAssessment

At the country level:
The FY04 public expenditure review assessed the procedures in place for budget
preparation, execution and control. The report identifieda number o f shortcomings at the
level o f budget executon. One potential strength o f the system i s the strong centralization
o f the expenditure control, which in a situation o f loose managementand cash shortage
could be an effective alternative to ensure at least some budgetary discipline. The many
weaknesses, however, lie in the fact that the government has been unable to adjust to a
deteriorating macroeconomic environment in a transparent way and there i s an almost
complete absence o f effective reporting on budget execution. This may be pervasive at all
levels o f Government in Guinea-Bissau due to the existence o f multiple rents that key
figures are extracting from the system. The final accounts o f each fiscal year are not
consolidated in time thus creating disruptions in the flow o f information on the budget
execution. The Treasury lacks a modern accounting system and i s therefore unable to
produce meaningful information on the budget and the use o f public funds.

The General Audit Office does not operate well, especially for the ex-post control o f the
public accounts and these have not been audited since 1987. Based on the main findings
o f the review, the mission concluded that the risk at the country level i s high.

At the project level:
Because o f the highfiduciary risk at the country level, IDA has taken special measures to
ensure adequate financial management o f its portfolio. PMUs are often established to
manage IDA-financed projects and Bank funding i s following special mechanisms to
mitigate fiduciary risk. Accounting staff is hired on contractual basis, typically on
salaries higher than civil servants, to work on projects, even when a Ministry implements
these projects.   In addition, IDA projects are invariably audited by independent and
competent audit firms. The N A S i s therefore established as an autonomous PMU.

As mentioned elsewhere in the text, the P M U o f the PSRDP will ensure financial
management o f the Project untilNAS financial management staff (financial manager and
two accountants) have been sufficiently trained and the FMS has been satisfactorily
installed. This will help avoid implementation delays and minimize fiduciary risks.

The table below identifies the key risks at the project level and provides a basis for
determininghow management should address these risks.




                                             50

Rating
                                                        iskAs, 'ssmen
                                                 H         S       M        N /              Comments
InherentRisk
1. Corruption                                    X                                The proposedfinancial
2. Poor governance                                X                               management(FM) action
3. Weak Judiciary                                 X                               planbelow will help solve
4. Weak Managementcapacity                        X                               this issueby hiringon
Overall Inherent Risk                             X                               qualifiedaccountingstaff.
                                                                                  Moreover,there will be
                                                                                  regularsupervision by IDA
                                                                                  andat the endofthe year, the
                                                                                  Projectand Programfinancial
                                                                                  statementswill be auditedby
                                                                                  an indenendentauditfirm.
ControlRisk
1. ImplementingEntity                                              X




                                                                                  PSRDP.
2. FundsFlow (fromthe central to the                       X                      A MemorandumOf
     regions)                                                                     Understandingwill be signed
                                                                                  with WesternUnionto ensure
                                                                                  the availability o f funds inthe
                                                                                  regions anda correct flow
                                                                                  recording.
3.   Counterpartfunds                                                       X     No counterpart funds will be
                                                                                  requiredunder this project
4. Staffing                                                         X              Ideminherent risk
5.   AccountingPolicies and Procedures                              X              Ideminherent risk (i)

6. InternalAudit                                                    X              Ideminherent risk
7. ExternalAudit                                                    X
8. ReportingandMonitoring                                           X
9. InformationSystems                                               X
Overall Control Risk                                                X            I Idem inherent risk

(i) spec@ risk such as Delay on the Civil Society and the line Ministries component due to lack of capacity

accountant and regional advisers .
in budget formulation and execution will be solved by the assistance to those two component by the NAS




                                                   51

                                            ACTION PLAN

Action                 Tasks                                                       Target CompletionDate
                                                                  .
1.   Recruitment o f   .                                          Entity
                           Preparation of the TOR for the staff   .    NAS        ..........June2,2004
the staff (i)          .
                       9   Review of TOR and approval              9   IDA                  June 10
                           Advertisement                               IDA                  June 16
                           Selection process                        m  NAS                  June 30
                           Non Objection                               IDA                  July 6
2. Development o f         TOR for the consultant                   .
                                                                    m  NAS                  June 10
                                                                    ...
the project's manual       Selection process                        m  NAS                  June 16
o f procedures         ...
                       ...
                           Draft manual                                Consultant           June 16
                           Review ofthe draft manual                   NAS                  June20
                           Final version                               NAS                  June25
3. Installation of the         Development of a chart of               NASI                 August 30
financial                      accounts reflecting the activities1     consultant
management system                                                                  .
                               sources of financing of the
                               project (regional and central
                               level),                                                      August 30
                                                                                   .
                               Customizing the agreedformat         .  NASI
                               for the quarterly Financial             consultant
                                                                    .
                               MonitoringReports (FMR)                                      September 30
                               Completingthe testing of the
                               transactions recording and the          NASI
                               financial statementproduction           consultant
                               and printing
4. Selection of an     Preparation o f the request for proposal NAS                .        July 30
auditor                package including the terms of reference
                       and the standard bidding documents
                       World Bank's no objection on the IDA                                 August 6
                       request for proposals package
                       Requestsfor proposals sent out             NAS              ..       August 15
                       Proposals received, Technical and          NAS                       August 29
                       financial evaluation completed and
                       transmitted to IDA non objection
                       IDA no objection                             IDA                     September 11




                                                    52

                                  FLOW OF FUNDS




                                            \

                                             \
                                              \
                                               \

                                                \
                                                 \
                                                  \
                                                   \




                      /                             \

                                                        Accounts o f Suppliers,
                                                        Consultants, or all other
  WESTE,RNUNION                                              contractor
     (REGION)


i
REGIONAL ACCOUNTANT
Paymentof suppliers, consultant
or NGOs and other operating
costs




                                       53

                                    FINANCIAL CHART OF NAS


                                          1     NATIONAL
                                               SECRETARY




CHIEF
ACCOUNTANT             ACCOUNTANT         ---------_____
Responsiblefor  ---._  Responsible for               ------______       REGIONAL
componentsA et B       component C                            -----____ACCOUNTANTS
                                                                           (5)



                  Liens hikrarchiques

     ____________--_
                   Liens fonctionnels




                                                54

      GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORTPROJECT
                                    Annex 8: Procurement
1. Generalprocurementenvironmentin Guinea-Bissau

A new national procurementpolicy has beenapproved and tested in five line Ministries but it is
not yet beengeneralized. All procurementactivitiesunder Bank-financedprojectsare subject to
World Bank guidelinesanduse of standarddocuments.

The general procurement environment in the country is acceptable as most Bank-financed
projectsmake use ofPMUs that includea procurementspecialistwho is trained inthe guidelines
andthe use ofstandarddocuments.

2. Use of World Bank guidelines

IDA will finance goods, civil works, consultancies, training, and other local activities necessary
to implement the project according to the World Bank's procurement and disbursement
guidelines

3. Procurementofworks and goods

(a) Procurement of works and goods for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January I995 and revised in January andAugust 1996,September 1997,and January 1999);
(b) The Bank's standardbiddingdocuments for works and goods, the standardpre-qualification
document (when applicable) andthe standardevaluationform will be usedinthe process;
(c) National standard biddingdocuments do not exist inthe country. It will be ensuredthat the
proceduresare acceptable to the World Bank, ifthe country intends to elaboratenational bidding
documents.The principlesof economy, transparency, efficiency and fair participationwill have
to be respected. Such biddingdocumentswill ensure that:

               (i)    bids will be advertised in national newspapers and rural radio network
                      with wide circulation;
               (ii)   the documentclearly explainsthe bidevaluationandaward criteria;
               (iii)  bidders are given adequate response time (minimum four weeks) to
                      prepareand submit bids;
               (iv)   bids will be awardedto the lowestevaluatedbidder;
               (v)    eligible bidders, including foreign bidders will not be precluded from
                      participating;and
               (vi)   no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic manufacturers
                      or suppliers or contractors.

Requirementsfor large-ticketitems such as medicalsupplies (drugs and equipment) andvehicles
will be consolidatedand preparation of procurement documents will be carried out by the NAS
using the ICB method. Thus, to the extent possible, procurement for goods will be grouped
where feasible into packages valued at US$150,000 equivalent or more. Delivery of these goods


                                               55

to the end users will either be done directly by the suppliers or through separate distribution
contracts that will ensure timely delivery o f the goods. It will be necessary to ensure that
adequate procurement capacity i s available at the center to organize the procurement and
distribution.

4. Selection of consultants

The selection o f consultants necessary for the execution o f the project will take place in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997,revised in September 1997,January 1999andMay 2002).

The Bank standard request for proposals will be used and forms o f contracts as needed (lump-
sum, time-based and/or simplified contracts for short term assignments and individual
consultants) as well as the sample form o f evaluation report for the selection o f consultants.

5. Advertising
(a) A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared and finalized and will be issued in
the United Nations Development Business before the end o f May; the finalized GPN lists all
goods and works contracts above US$200,000 and large contracts for selection o f consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent value o f US$lOO,OOO or more;
(b) The related pre-qualification (ifany) or bidding documents will not be released and the short
list for consultant services will not be prepared before the eighth week following GPN
publication;
(c) The GPN will be updated annually for those contracts still to be let;
(d) Incase o f expressions of interest, a minimumo f 14 days will be allowed before preparing the
short list; the period will be 30 days incase international firms might be interested;
(e) Specific procurement Notice (SPN) for goods and works will be advertised in the national
press of wide circulation, and internationally for large contracts;
(f) Large contracts to be advertised internationally will put inUNDNand DgMarket web sites;
and
(8) Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain the biddocuments.

6. Procurement capacity
(a) General features. Since the NAS procurement specialist has not yet been recruited, no
assessment could be carried out. As soon as all technical staff have been recruited, NAS will be
evaluated to determine whether all conditions are in place to procure in compliance with World
Bank procedures. These conditions will be an important part o f the terms o f reference and the
contracts. The core staff at the N A S will include a Procurement Specialist who should be
familiar with World Bank's procurement procedures and will work closer with each o f the RCs
and the NAS RegionalAccountants andAdvisers under the project to ensure efficient andtimely
project implementation through compliance with the procurement schedules agreed with the
Bank. The Procurement Specialist will: (a) prepare and update the procurement plan for the
project; (b) monitor the progress o f procurement; (c) assist the implementing agencies in the
preparation o f biddingdocuments and advertisements for goods and works contracts and request
for proposals for consulting assignments; and (d) be responsible for bid opening and evaluation.
The Procurement Specialist will also advise the implementingagencies onprocedural matters.



                                                  56

To avoid delays inproject launch, it was agreed after the mission o fthe procurement specialist to
have the PMU o f the PSRDP, which has procurement staff on-board with satisfactory
qualifications, manage procurement for the Project o f all non-medical supplies and equipment. It
will manage the selection process o f the seven contractual staff o f the NAS and initial studies
andtraining, procure basic equipment, and organize office rehabilitation. These activities will be
financed from the Project Preparation Fundadvance. Once the NAS procurement specialist has
beensufficiently trained, PSRDPwill transfer procurement responsibilities back.

(b) Capacity of CECOME ( Centralede Commandedes MCdicamentsEssentiels)

Drugs and equipments for drugs may also be purchased through CECOME, which is
administratively and financially autonomous since November 2003,               CECOME will be
responsible for purchasing drugs and medical equipment for public hospitals and small health
centers under the control o fthe central Government and the municipalities.

(i)Organizationand operationalmechanisms

Regardingprocurement activities, CECOME will make an arrangement with PNDS (theNational
Health Development Project) for assistance from their specialist; technical specifications for
goods and works and terms o f reference for consultants will be issued by CECOME and the
process conducted under the control o f the procurement specialist o f the Health Sector
Development Program.        However, the evaluation committee will be mainly composed o f
CECOME members.

(ii)Procurementprocedures

CECOME has no procurement system inplace yet; during the period they will be assisted by the
procurement specialist o f PNDS. There will be a need for them to:

    0   Establish a proper procurement system to ensure sustainability and reduce delays for
        procuring drugs andequipment;
    0   Provide for capacity building o f the procurement team to be recruited;
    0   Elaborate appropriate standard biddingdocuments for drugs and equipment inconformity
        with requirements o f a World Bank-financed project and ensure that procedures will
        remain flexible untilthe Bank has evaluated them as satisfactory; and
    0   Elaborate an implementation manual that institutes a tender board commission and
        evaluation commission, so as to enhance the transparency ofthe process.

Where feasible, bid packages will be of such size to attract interest from larger manufacturers
and distributors (this i s however contingent on availability o f adequate storage facilities) and
lengthof procedures.

7. Procurementplan

A global procurement plan for the whole project and a detailed procurement plan for the first
year o f the project have been completed following the appraisal mission and finalized as a



                                                 57

condition o f Board presentation. The procurement plan includes relevant information on all
goods, works and services contracts under the project as well as the timing o f each milestone in
the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every six months and
submitted to IDA. The Procurement Specialist will monitor the progress of procurement and
implementation o f each contract under the project and will ensure effective and timely project
execution.

8. Implementationmanual

The implementation manual is under preparation and its adoption is a condition o f effectiveness.
The section o f this manual related to procurement will be in compliance with the procurement
arrangements described inthis annex. Specifically, subprojects identified and executed by NGOs
or CBOs will be carried out inaccordance with private sector procedures acceptable to the Bank.

9. Procurementimplementationarrangements

(i)Centrallevel :

The NAS procurement specialist. This specialist will handle all procurement activities for
vehicles, office rehabilitation and equipment, and all large items that can be grouped in big
packages for all project public or private executives agencies. The specialist will also participate
inbuildingcapacities for the other actors andassist/control their procurementactivities

Since there i s lack of capacity in the country, line Ministries will refer to NAS for their
procurement activities.

CECOME will be responsible for drugs andmedical equipment procurement.

(ii)Regionallevel

The RCs will be allowed to procure their own goods and works except drugs and medical
equipment; if needed they will be assisted by the national level at the beginning o f project
implementation.

(iii)Locallevel

At the community level NGOs and CBOs will be fully responsible for procuremento f goods and
services under the project and will be provided with training inproject procurement procedures;
international and national NGOs will be selected on the basis o f their qualification but local
NGOs and CBOs will be awarded funding for subprojects only when they have demonstrated
capacity to manage funds in accordance with Project requirements. Public procurement at the
local level will be under the control o fthe regional level.




                                                 58

10. Procurement Methods

(a) Procurementmethods for goods and works. The methods to be usedfor procurement are
describedbelow. The estimated amounts for eachmethod are summarized intable A below. The
threshold contract values for the use of each method and the total amount of contracts above
prior reviewthresholds are shown intable B below.

Goods. Given the urgency of the program, items required urgently during the first 12 months
could be obtained on a fast-track basis using appropriate procurement methods directly from
UnitedNations agencies (UNFPA, WHO, UNICEF=, etc). Immediate requirementsof vehicles
and office equipment specifically for the program could be acquired from IAPSO or by local
shopping (preferably ex-bonded warehouses on a competitive basis) or international shopping.
Furniture for coordinating offices could be procured through local shopping. Where feasible,
procurement agents could be used, including UNFPA for procurement and distribution of
condoms, andpossibly other UnitedNations agencies for procurement and distribution of drugs.

All procurement actions will follow standard IDA procurement guidelines and annual general
procurement notices (GPN) will be preparedfor the project and publishedinthe UnitedNations'
Development Business and DgMurket. The distribution to the final users can be done through
the municipalities, the NGOs, or the CBOs.

Inorder to facilitate the procurement process the thresholds will be established as stated below
for essential goods:

           (i)     ICB: equal or above US$150,000 equivalent for goods including drugs;
           (ii)    NCB: Less than US$150,000 up to a total amount not exceeding US$
                   800,000;
           (iii)   National or international shopping: US$50,000 up to a total amount of
                   US$500,000;
           (iv)    Drugs and medical equipment purchased from CECOME will follow sole
                   source system with IDA prior review; however CECOME must follow
                   adequate procurement methods; and
           (v)     Goods up to an aggregate amount of US$l.O million may also be procured
                   through various UNprocurement agencies.

Regarding civil works, for example rehabilitation of facilities, the procurement procedures will
be as follows:
                     (i)ICB:equalormorethanUS$200,000equivalent;
                     (ii)NCB: Less than US$200,000 up to a total amount not exceeding
                          US$800,000; and
                     (iii)Procurement of small works: US$50,000 up to a total amount not
                          exceeding US$500,000.

(b) Selection of consultants. Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical
assistance, promotion of the project activities, and support of project execution will be carried



                                                59

out in accordance with the Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (Consultant Guidelines). As a
rule, consultant services will be procured through Quality and cost-based selection (QCBS)
methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or
more will be advertised in a national newspaper and in Development Business (UNDB) and
DgMarket. In addition, the contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or a
technical magazine seeking "expressions o f interest." All consulting assignments exceeding
US$200,000 will be procured through QCBS. In the case of assignments estimated at
US$lOO,OOO or less, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made
up entirely o f national consultants provided that at least three qualified national firms are
available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from
consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 may
be contracted by comparing the qualifications o f consultants who have expressed an interest in
the job or who have been identified. Auditors will be selected using least-cost selection
procedures.

11. Prior review thresholds

(i)Goodsandworks
All goods and works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent value o f US$150,000 and
US$200,000 respectively or more will be subject to IDA review o f bidding documents including
draft contracts and technical specifications prior to inviting bids and IDA review o f bid
evaluation report prior to contract award and signature.

(ii)Consulting services
The TOR and the short list for all consulting assignments irrespective o f value will be subject to
IDA prior review. For consultancy contracts with firms with an estimated value of US$lOO,OOO
or more, and US$50,000 or more inthe case of individuals, the draft request for proposals (RFP)
or letter of invitation for individuals and the shortlist o f consultants must be cleared by IDA prior
to inviting proposals from consultants. Inaddition, the evaluation o f technical proposals must be
cleared with IDA before financial proposals o f the qualifying firms are opened. The draft
contract accompanied by the final evaluation report (combining technical and financial criteria),
and the negotiation session report will be submitted to IDA for no-objection before contract
signature.

This means that with respect to each contract for the employment o f the consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more and each contract for the employment o f
individualconsultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set
forth inparagraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph o f paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix
ItotheConsultantGuidelinesshallapply.




                                                  60

12. Post review

Contracts that are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix Ito the guidelines

13. Readiness for implementation

Drafts o f the documents required for effectiveness:   (a) an implementation manual i s under
preparation; and (b) A draft o f the general procurement plan for the whole project and the
detailed procurement plan for the first year have been prepared and reviewed during appraisal
and completed as a condition o f Boardpresentation.


                       Table A: Project Costs by Procurement methods
                                     (US$ `000 equivalent)

    Expenditures categories                      Procurement methods                        Total

                                    ICB      NCB       Consulting       Other      NBF      Total
                                                        services

           Civil works                       44.9                                            44.9

           Equipments            I 273.6    I107.7   II                i429.4               810.7

 Consultant services ( technical                         3,148.9                            3,148.9
     assistance and training)                                          I
       Operating costs and                                                                  1,950.5
           maintenance                                                  1y950.5 I
             Salaries                                                                        868.5

              Total              1 273.6    1152.6   I    3.148.9       3,248.4   1         6.823.5




                                               61

               Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
                                                 (US$)

 Expenditures categories          Contract value         Procurementmethod           Contractssubject
                                  threshold                                          to prior review

  1. Civil works                       -200,000
                                       >                             ICB                         0
                                       <200,000                      NCB
                                       - 50,000
                                       <                     Proc. of small works

  2. Goods                             -150,000
                                       >                            ICB                      791,000
                                       <150,000                    NCB                           0
                                       - 50,000
                                       <                 Nat. or intern. shopping                0
3. Consultant services and
training :       Firms                 2 100,000                  QCBS andother            2,5 13,200
                Individual              <50,000           Individual consultants
                                                             selection method
     Total amount of contracts                                                              3,304,200
      subject to mior review

     Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment: Medium

     Frequencyofprocurementsupervisionmissionsproposed : One every four months including
     procurementsupervision for post review during the first year and one every six monthsafter that



                             Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds


   Expenditure Category           SDR equivalent         Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                               10,000       100%
2a. Goods: vehicles and office              450,000       100%
equipment
2b. Goods: drugs, tests and                 280,000       100%
medical supplies
3. Consultantservices, training           1,890,000       100%
and audits
5.   OperatingCosts                       1,460,000       100%
6. Refunding of PPF                         5 10,000
7. Unallocated                              100,000

Total                                     4.700.000




                                                 62

      GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT
                              Annex 9: Monitoringand Evaluation


Introduction

The MAP is based on the assumption that rapid project preparation without extensive ex ante
technical analysis i s possible if effective M&E systems (M&ES) are urgently established as a
management tool to guide project adjustments.

M&ESComponents

M&E comprises (a) surveillance; (b) epidemiological research; (c) financial management; and
(d) Program activities.

Surveillance

This encompasses both biological and behavioral surveillance. In Guinea-Bissau there is an
urgent need to implement regular, annual, comprehensive HIV surveillance. Antenatal
surveillance i s the bedrock o f biological surveillance. The N A S and the ministry o f health will
implement antenatal surveillance among up to 2000 antenatal patients, 400 each d r a k from one
o f the 5 priority regions o f Bissau, Bafata, Gabu, Cacheu, and Ohio, taking into account both
rural and semi-rural (or urban) antenatal sites. Further surveillance i s required to track STI/HIV
trends among priority groups. In particular, surveillance will examine STLrHIV prevalence
among a key sentinel or "tripwire" population, up to 400 female sex workers, sampled from
Bissau and Gabu. The uniformed forces will also be monitored, with up to 600 samples, drawn
from Bissau, Gabu and Catchungo. Intensive interventions and continuing STI and HIV
surveillance will also be conducted among these cohorts to assess intervention impact. STI
prevalence, aetiology, and sensitivity studies among sex workers and other groups are also
urgentpriorities. Technical assistancewill be provided by international agencies such as WHO.

Behavioral surveillance will be managed by the NAS, using FHI's manual and materials and
undertaken by a competitively identified researchkonsulting agency or NGO. FHI have
established comprehensive manuals and rigorous procedures for questionnaire adaptation and
translation, interviewer training and supervision, sampling, data management, and quality
assurance. Guinea Bissau will initiate regular behavioral surveillance at 18-24 month intervals,
among up to 1000 female sex workers, 1000 uniformed service members, and 1200 young
people aged 12-19 (300 male in-school, 300 female in-school, 300 male out-of-school, 300
female out-of-school).

Epidemiologicalresearch

The focus will be on two major areas: (a) STI prevalence, aetiology and sensitivity studies and
(b) evaluation o f HIV interventions among priority groups, including sex workers and uniformed
service members.



                                                 63

Financial and projectmonitoring

This will focus on the NAS contracting and coordinating capacity and the relevance, quantity,
quality, and economy o f public sector, municipal, and civil society services. Project monitoring
will be combined with financial monitoring and managed by NAS staff recruited from a
competitive international manpower market (restricted to Guinean nationality) with annual
contract according to specific related TOR. Contract renewal will be submitted to external
evaluation every year. Each technical NAS staff and each contracted partner will collect and
verify primary monitoring data from each operation. Through the project, NAS will assume a
major grant-making role, supporting numerous AIDS projects nationally. NAS will develop
established systems and procedures for budget transfers and grant-making, including systems for
identifying epidemiological priorities and soliciting compliant applications, publicizing grants,
developing and publicizing structured, transparent selection procedures, publicizing recipients,
monitoring program performance o f recipients and communicating achievements.

An M&E manual will be developed as a condition o f Grant effectiveness. All Program staff at
the national and regional levels, as well as those NGOs, MDAs and civil society leaders, will be
trained on M&E procedures. During project implementation, the manual will be reviewed,
adapted, simplified, and translated to ensure that it meets the Program's needs.

M&EStructure

Biological surveillance will be undertaken by the Department o f Hygiene and Epidemiology
with support from the National Public Health Laboratory, with specialized staff at national and
regional level. External technical assistance will be provided by WHO, UNAIDS, CDC and/or
FHI. Behavioralsurveillancewill be contracted to a researcWconsulting agency or anNGO. It
i s suggested that FHI provide technical assistance, to ensure surveillance, fully incorporates
international good practice.     Epidemiological research will be conducted jointly by the
Department o f Hygiene and Epidemiology, with external technical assistance from FHI. The
NAS M&E specialist and financial manager will be responsible for Financial and program
activity monitoring.

There are several reasons why it i s preferable to combine financial and program activities
monitoring into the NAS. Since the M&E specialist and the M&E financial staff are working
together at the NAS, such a set-up is more efficient. Project monitoring may be added to
financial monitoring at marginal cost.     Moreover, combining financial and physical project
implementation monitoring provides a basis to corroborate financial and activity data and to
ensure sounddata cross-verification. This improves both financial and project accountability.




                                                 64

 Component                        I Contracted to
 SurveilIance                     I Biological: Departmentof Epidemiology,with support from

                                    Behavioral: Directed by NAS and contracted to
                                    research/consultingagency or NGO
 Epidemiological research           Departmentof Epidemiologyof the Ministry of Health
 Public sector and civil society    Directed by NAS financial staff (annual contract)
 financial monitoring
 Public sector and civil society    Directed by NAS M&E staff (annual contract)
 technical project monitoring

NASActions

The NAS will undertake the following actions to effectively coordinate project monitoring:

e Clarify its coordination role and increase its capacity to coordinate, not implement, M&E;
e The NAS M&E specialist will coordinate M&E activities and will          be responsible for training
  partners andverifying, collating, analyzing and reporting data;
e The NAS and stakeholders will undertake a participatory process, to prepare a nationally
  owned M&E plan and manual and to build commitment and ownership for M&E. Each
  partner will agree on key targets with NAS M&E unit, usinga structured targets form;
0 Eachpartner will report results monthly using a simple, structured reporting form. Results will
  be verified semi-annually bythe Program activities unit;
e The NAS M&E will support partners to introduce M&E into all contracted activities to assess
  progress by usingsimple standardized forms;
0 The NAS M&E will collate, analyze and prepare semi-annual summary reports o f aggregate
  activities, usinga standard format;
e The NAS and key stakeholders will meet semi-annually to review monitoring reports and to
  identifykey lessons; and
0 The NAS M&E unit and key stakeholders will update their operational and M&E manuals and
  procedures based on lessons learned.

Monitoringand EvaluationBudget


Component                                     Y1              Y2              Y3          Total
Biological Surveillance                     30,000          30,000           30,000       90,000
Behavioral Surveillance                        0            40,000              0         40,000
Epidemiological Research                    10,000              0            10,000       20,000
Financial and program monitoring              5,000           5,000           5,000       15,000
Total                                       45,000          75,000           45,000       165,000




                                                 65

Action                                                                                         Completed
Guinea Bissau project M&E plan and M&E manual producedthrough                             September 2004
national stakeholder consultativemeeting
Training of key staff                                                           October-November2004
M&E included into the project launchingworkshop                                            December 2004

Key Indicators

Input and Output Indicators
  Increase from 0% to 20 % of PLWA that receivemedical assistance (01and/orARV) by Y3
  Increasefrom 0% to 10% of OVC benefitingfrom improved access to education and/or food aid
  % of PLWHA and/or affected families receiving/benefitingin finding adaptedsources of revenue
  50 priest, predicators or marabous in each region have received HIV/AIDS IEC formal training
  50 regional, 50 national associationmemberstrained on project proceduresby end 2004
  50 traditional healers in each region have receivedformal training in STI/ HIV/AIDScounseling
  50 traditional "sage femmes" in each regiontrained in STI/ HIV/AIDScounseling
  Funded line Ministries have achieved75% of their annual HIV/AIDSoutreach plan
  75% of all civil servants have been reached by HIV/AIDS related IEC by 2007
  All public institutions distributecondoms,with 1 million condoms distributedannually by Y3
  All secondary and tertiary healthfacilities of pilot regions have the capacity to treat, diagnose and
  test for STDs by syndromic approach (trained staff and no drugs stock outs)
  At least 12 HIV/AIDScivil society initiativesfunded by region per year, at full project development
  At least 2 operators and 1 managerof each rural radio trained in HIV/AIDSIEC by end 2006
  Number of men and women who are being counseled and tested for HIV
  Number of programsthat are disseminatedon HIV/AIDS in local languages
  Number of regions that have at least 1VTC center in place (at least 2 for Bissau)
  Number of community based projects that support OVC or PLWA and their families
  Over 30 private sector clients funded by 2007
  Over 50000 clients reached annually by civil society initiatives on HlVlAlDS by 2007
  At least US$1 million is channeledto communities for civil society initiatives by 2007




                                                     66

Outcome Indicators
  Condom use in sexual encounters outside of primary relationship in the last 12 months by persons
  15-19, has increased by 10% over 2003 levels
  Percentage of men and women aged 15-49 reporting STI symptoms in the last 12 months, who
  sought care at a health facility, in the five pilot regions
  Number of sexual partners outside of primary union in last twelve months amongst the population
  aged 15-49 has declined by 10 % from 2003 levels
  Percentage of orphans receiving support increased from 3% to 20% by Y3

Process (and coverage) Indicators
  Seven VCT centers, equitably distributed geographically, are in place
  Percentage of men and women aged 15-49 that report having access to condoms
  Percentage of sex workers, military, truckers, and female market traders aged 15-49 that report
  having access to condoms
  5 priority regions develop and implement their annual regional plans with stakeholder participation

Impact Indicators
  By the end of the third year of the project, the rate of increase of seroprevalence of HIV among
  antenatal women aged 15-24 has declined (compared to the first year of the project)




                                                       67

            GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORTPROJECT
                                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues

              MEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN : LOGICAL FRAMEWORK*

                                                 0bjective                                             I Performance         Indicator

     OBJECTIVE 1: To strengthen the legal and institutional framework of the MWM
     Result: Policy document, law, rules, and procedures for sound MWM completed. Monitoring

                    Set up a coordinationand monitoringteam.                                            MonitoringCommittee
                    Prepare MWM policy.                                                                 Documentof Policy
    Activities Prepare and enact legaltext for MWM.                                                     Law and rules
                    Prepare and enact technical guidelines for MWM.                                     Guidelines




                    Prepare a training plan and to executethe training.                                 Training documents
    Activities Train all people involvedwith the manipulationof medical waste.                          # of peopletrained
                    Assess the implemented plan.                                                         Evaluation report

     OBJECTIVE 4: To increase population awareness about MWM risks
     Result: Population is well informed about MWM risks.
     Activities To inform population about MWM risks.                                                    % of population
                                                                                                         informed

     OBJECTIVE 5: To support the implementation of the MWM plan
     Result: Plan is agreed, coordination system, M&E in place. MWM directors at national, regional,

                    Organization of regionalworkshops for sanitary chiefs                                Number of workshop
                    Survey, evaluation, and planning of activities.                                      Reports
     Activities                                                                                          Monthly and annual
                    MWM plan implementation monitoring.                                                  monitoring reports. Mid
                                                                                                         term review report and
                                                                                                         final assessment report.
*Operations and costs bellow are referring to the five pilot regions in which the medical waste management plan will be piloted.




                                                                        68

             GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORTPROJECT
                        Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision




                                                    Planned               Actual
PCN review                                    December4,2003         December4,2003
Initial PID to PIC                                                    February 13,2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                               02/20/2004         February 20,2004
Appraisal                                        March 2004            March6,2004
Negotiations                                      April 2004          March 19,2004
Board/RVP approval                               May 26,2004
Planneddate o f effectiveness                September 30,2004
Planned date o f mid-termreview             Before December 31,
                                                     2005
Plannedclosing date                          December 31,2007

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
PNLS inGuinea-Bissau (Paolo Rabna)

Bank staff and consultantswho worked onthe project included:

Name                                           Title                      Unit
Christian Fauliau                                            TTL        AFTS4
Marie-JeanneN'Diaye                 LanguageProgram Assistant           AFTS4
Rohan Selvaratnam                          Sr. Program Assistant        AFTS4
Virginie Vaselopulos                Language Program Assistant          AFTS4
Demba Balde                       Social Development Specialist         AFTS4
Fily Sissoko                              Financial Management          AFTFM
                                                        Specialist
Bourouma Diaite                           Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Kees Kosterman                     LeadPublic HealthSpecialist          AFTH2
Laura Rose                           Sr. Public HealthSpecialist        AFTH2
FernandoVasco                                    HealthSpecialist      Consultant
DirkPrevoo                                    Operations Officer        AFTS4
Inacio Alvarenga                        Implementation Aspects          AFTS4
                                                      (consultant)
Alioune BadaraDiouf                 Audit Specialist (consultant)       AFTS4
Clara Barros                        M&ESpecialist (consultant)          HDNGA
Pave1Trcala                                            Consultant       AFTS4




                                                 69

Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources: US$240,000
   2. Trust funds: US$267,000
   3. Total: US$507,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: US$O
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost:US$120,000.00




                                            70

      GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORT PROJECT
                                     Annex 12: Orphan Support

It is estimated that there are currently some 6,000 orphans in Guinea Bissau. However, the
orphan identification system is not reliable and data collection is not covering every part of the
country. The situation is also not sufficiently analyzed. The few NGOs supporting orphans
(SOS Villages, Casa Emanuella) have recently started to collect data and monitor development.
There is no information on the conditions and needs of families already integrating orphans.
Orphan support i s not planned and it largely depends on the good will of people deciding to help
them with very limitedresources.

The orphan question cannot be approached in standardized manner, as orphans in different
communities will require a different kind of support. Their vulnerability to HIV/AIDS is not
based only on their material needs, but it also concerns their health, social environment, legal
situation, and, last but not least, their emotional status. The support package will be definedby
evaluating the different aspects of vulnerability according to the situation of each individual
orphan. The objective will not be to solve all problems o f all orphans, as i s not possible during
the three-year project, butitwill aim to improve the lives of orphans.

The nationalorphan strategywill aimto:

     e   Build a small and efficient national core team. It will include a NAS staff at the central
         level with TOR to support PLWHA and orphans, an NGO representative already
         working in supporting orphans (SOS, Caritas, Casa Emanuella), representatives of the
         mainreligions, and arepresentativeofministryof social support. The national team will
         be supportedby regional teams;
         Train the national and regional leaders about orphans situation, needs, and support;
         Informthe civil society leaders andNGOs about the potential project support;
         Launch community lead identification survey with counts, localization, and short needs
         descriptions;
         Launchpotential adoptive families identificationbasedon their proximity to orphans;
         Define priority criteria for eligibility o f orphans support;
         Set up various mechanismsfor orphans support;
         Set up the monitoring system at national, regional, and community levels;
         Support orphans association building at regional and national levels; and
         Support adoptive family associationbuildingat regional andnational levels.

The approachwill be very pragmatic, learning by doing. However, rigorous monitoringwill be a
key element of success and particularly to find better ways to extend a reliable support to other
orphans.




                                                    71

   GUINEA-BISSAU: HIVIAIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT
                         Annex 13: Project SupervisionStrategy

Objectives

Project implementation i s expected to take o f f inthe second half o f calendar year 2004 (end
first quarter FY2005). Although project preparation has beenextensive, it i s still anticipated
that there will be considerable need for close supervision during the initial years o f project
implementation. The main objectives o f the supervision inthe first year are to (a) ensure that
there is adequate implementation capacity at the regional levels and all the participating line
ministries; (b) ensure that the contractual staff o f NAS has sufficient adequate capacity and
support to begin carrying out their mandate o f coordination and M&E; (c) ensure that
implementation arrangements are efficient and responsive to program and project
requirements, and where necessary make changes; and (d) ensure adherence to appropriate
safeguards and fiduciary responsibilities.

Strategic focus

The supervision strategy will focus on the following critical areas inthe first year. However,
as i s the case with the overall project design, flexibility in focus for support supervision will
be requiredinorder to be responsive to evolving priorities or emergingproblems.

Institutionalarrangementsfor implementation

The supervision will focus on the essential institutional arrangements inorder for the project
to carry out the planned project activities.    The role o f the Facilitating Agencies and the
committees at the regional level for coordination of project activities under the first
component will be evaluated during the first year of implementation. At the national level,
the evolution o f the mechanisms for Monitoring and Evaluation, Planning and Financing
under NAS will be closely monitored. During the initial stages o f the project there will be a
strategic focus on the strengthening and creation of partnerships - with civil society
organizations, private sector organizations and within the public sector              -  for the
implementation o f the national program. Such partnerships are seen as the main vehicle to
address concerns about the absorptive capacity to intensify the national response to
HIV/AIDS as significant as foreseen underthe project.

Monitoringand Evaluation

Ina multi-sector projectwithdiverseimplementing agencies suchas this, itwill be important
to have a sound M&E system in place early during project implementation. At the core o f
the mandate o f the N A C is the M&E function for the overall national program. The project
will strengthen the M&E capacity within NAS.             During the first year, the supervision
activities will focus on:

     -   Achieving an adequate level o f functioning for the M&E. It i s anticipated that
         participatory stakeholder meetings will form part o f the annual project reviews.


                                              72

        Participatory M&E systems, such as being developed for community-based projects
        will be used to give the NAS the advantage o f sample tools and lessons learned

     -  elsewhere; and
        Reviewing the appropriateness o f indicators as well as quality and quantity o f
        available data. Where needed the supervision mission will also provide additional
        support to the establishment o f terms o f reference for base studies and continuous
        data collection.


Coordination

The core function o f NAS is the coordination of a large range o f activities and initiatives
implemented by a host o f agencies from the public sector, the private sector and civil society
organizations, from national level to decentralized level.      The supervision strategy will
concentrate on supporting NAS inthis formidable task. Key targets inthe initial year will be
the development o f a Joint M&E Framework for the national program, the development o f a
model for Joint HIV/AIDS Program Reviews, the elaboration o f a joint financing framework
for HIV/AIDS, and the functioning of NAS as the institution for joint administrative
functions.

Procurement

Supervision will provide problem-solving support on procurement and evaluate whether
capacity and procedures for procurement at the national and regional levels are satisfactory.
It will also do ex-post reviews to ensure compliance with guidelines and evaluate the need
for additional training.

Financialmanagement

Duringthe first year the project, supervisionwill focus onthe establishment andmanagement
o f the Special Account and facilitate timely flow of funds directly to implementation entities.
The argument for the fast tracking o fthis project hinges on an efficient and fast-disbursement
channel to support the community and multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS. The financial
management specialist will also regularly evaluate the appropriateness o f the financial
management set-up.

Partnerships

Many UN and bilateral agencies such as UNAIDS, WHO, UNICEF, and the French
Cooperation have made useful contributions during project preparation. The Global Fund
also expressed interest inparticipating on the basis o f the Government's strategy and the IDA
prepared project document. A joint implementation mechanism will be established to ensure
efficient allocation of scarce donor resources. The supervision o f the project will continue to
build such partnership and collaboration. Three methods are identified to further develop the
partnership and collaboration:




                                             73

(i)    Joint-missions. The IDA team will participate in the annual joint review o f the
       national HIV/AIDS program as organized by N A S together with other program
       partners. For all other regular supervision mission, the IDA team will invite other
        partners to participate. As each other partner can contribute a particular expertise this
       would leverage supervision resources and provide a more effective support to the
       program than individual missions can support;

(ii) Sharinginternationalexperiencesandbestpracticesthroughsupervisionandbuilding
       o f regional alliances (exchanges and visits in sub-regional countries where more
       implementation experience exists), and by inviting resource persons with experiences
       inimplementingsimilar programs; and

(iii) Periodicevaluationofthepartnershipswithaview(a) tostrengthenoftherelations;
       (b) improvecoordination.

Duringthe project launch workshop, the IDA team will discuss the options described above
with various partners to confirm possible arrangements and support.

Supervision

The project will need intensive supervision given the large span o f activities, its blend of
public and private sector interventions, and its multi-sectoral as well as its multi-agency
nature.   In addition, concerns about severely constrained capacity will require intensive
support. The project will be implemented by many entities with limitedto no experience in
the area and whose capacity will therefore need substantial strengthening.         A budget o f
US$120,000 and a Junior Professional Associate based inthe Senegal Country Office will be
needed to supervise the project during the first 12 months o f project implementation. The
project task team will closely collaborate with the Bank's Global HIV-AIDS Office to obtain
additional support to strengthen and review the project's M&E system as described above.

Some o fthe skills required for the supervision o f the project will be needed on a regular basis
while others will be required on an ad hoc basis. A core project team will be established
after Board presentation, consisting o f staff involved in project preparation, emphasizing
financial, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and general implementation skills,
complemented by technical specialists as needed, in particular those covering M&E,
community participation, training o f health staff in ART and STI diagnosis and treatments,
maternal and child needs, specific health treatment issues, etc. A much more intensive than
normal supervision program should be carried out during the first year o f the project to put in
place a sound institutional base that will ensure efficient implementation o f a complex
operation. Clearly there will be a learning process for N A C and NAS staff, who will have
just come on board (developing a management culture, preparing terms o f reference, and
with limited World Bank procuremedfinancial management experience). The Bank team
will needto assess--on the ground--whether the indicators levels chosen are realistic, given
the paucity o f data and the difficulties in data collection in a post-conflict country and
evaluate their conformity to program and project needs. This is made more difficult in the
absence of a permanent in-country presence o f Bank operational staff. The involvement o f



                                            74

the Senegal Country Office staff in the project preparation would facilitate close supervision
through their continued involvement. It i s expected that the Bank's country office will fully
ensure supervision o f fiduciary aspects. Concerning the health sector, which i s crucial for
related HIV/AIDS care, a specific supervision plan and budget will be established at the
beginning o f each fiscal year.

The project team will include the following members: (i)    Task Team Leader with experience
inHIV/AIDS operations; (ii) specialist, (iii) specialist, (iv) IEC specialist, (v)
                               health                 M&E
implementation specialist, to help in the critical first half year o f project's implementation;
(vi) financial management specialist who will review adherence to Bank procedures with
regard to fiduciary responsibilities; and (vii) procurement specialist, responsible for the
procurement related issues. Sectoral specialists in the areas o f education, gender, maternal
and child needs, and community participation will participate on an ad hoc basis.




                                            75

        GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORT PROJECT
                               Annex 14: Documents inthe Project File


L i s t of studies financed by the PHRD Grant (TF026788)

Identification of best practices:

          NationalAcces Systemto ARV: Anne Marie BodoBlizabeth MoreiraDos Santos
           Community and Traditional practitioners' involvement: ENDA Tiers Monde
          Creation o f an Association of PLHVIH: ENDA Tiers Monde
          Religious Involvement: ENDA Tiers Monde
          Strategical Plan and Instruments for the creation oftesting and counselling centers:
           Sonia MariaBatista Da Silva
          Making o f a kit for informal sexual education: Simone Souza Monteiro
          HIV/AIDS HumanRights andLaw inGuineaBissau: Ousmane Sane

Designof a decentralized funding mechanism: OMS Consulting/Julio Injucam

Designof an IEC strategy: Jacques DaMathdJose Rodrigues Santy

Design of a nationalparticipatory strategy to fight against HIV/AIDS: AbdessalamFarzd
Inacio Alvarenga

Preparation of a strategy for orphan and PLWHA: Marie France AdrienKheikh Sagna

Diagnostic of existing health care facilities: Fernando Vasco Da Silva Marques

Preparation of Health Service Delivery Component: Fernando Vasco Da Silva Marques

MAP Restructuring Proposal: AbdessalamFarza.

Other Studies or documents:

     --   The HIV/AIDSNational Strategic Plan (2002)
          The first proposal for the GlobalFundfinancing (2003)




                                                   76

       GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT

                        Annex 15: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                   (data as of February 2004)

~~

                                                                                Difference
                                                                                 between
                                                                              expected and
                                     Original Amount in US$                       actual
                                               million                        disbursements
  Project  FY   Purpose           IBRD     IDA       SF    GEF  Canc  Undisb. Orig.    Frm.
  ID                                                             el.                  Rev'd
  PO01001 2002  Private Sector     0.00 26.00        0.00  0.00  0.00 24.19   2.61      0.00
                Rehabilitation
                and
                Development
                Support Project
  PO65725 2000  Economic           0.00 25.00        0.00   0.00 0.00 13.79   14.32     4.77
                Rehabilitation
                and Recovery
                Credit
  PO35688 1998  National Health    0.00 11.70        0.00   0.00 0.00  4.46    4.13     4.30
                Development
                Program.
  PO01015 1997  Basic Education    0.00 14.30        0.00   0.00 0.00  5.67   "5.21     4.59
                                                                         ~~                 ~~

                           Total:  0.00 77.00        0.00   0.00 0.00 48.11   26.27    13.66




                                               77

                                 STATEMENT OF IFC's
                              Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                 In Millions of US Dollars
                               (Data as of February2004)

                              Committed                                  Disbursed
                                         IFC                            IFC
FYApproval  Company           Loan     Equity  Quasi   Partic. Loan    Equity  Quasi Partic.
1998        Banco da Africa   0.00       0.28   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.28   0.00  0.00
              Total portfilio: 0.00      0.28   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.28   0.00  0.00



                                                              Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                   Company                         Loan    Equity  Quasi  Partic.



                              Total pending commitment:       0.00     0.00     0.00  0.00




                                             78

         GUINEA-BISSAU: HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATIONSUPPORT PROJECT
                                                Annex 16: Country at a Glance


                                                                     Sub-
P O V E R T Y and S O C I A L                             Guinea- Saharan      L O w-
                                                          Bissau    Africa   income        Development diamond*
2002
Population mid-year (millio ns)
             I                                                  1.3     688     2,495                     Life expectancy
GNipercapita (Atlas method, US$)                               150      450       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              0.19      306     1,012

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                   T
Population (%)                                                  2.1     2.4        1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                  2.1     2.5        2.3     GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                           per                                   primary
M o s t racent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                   capita                             enrollment
Poverly (% o f population belo wnationalpo vertyline)
Urban population (%oftotalpopulation)                           33       33        30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                               45       46         59                            1
Infant mortality (per 1000 live births)                        122      105        61
Child malnutrition (%of children under5)                       25                                Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulatlon)             56        58        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 59                             59        31        31
Gross primaryenrollment (% o f school-agepopulation)           63        86        95              -Guinea-Bissau
   M ale                                                        99       92       m3                   low-incomegroup
   Female                                                       66       60        87

KEY ECONOMIC R A T I O S and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1962      1992    2001      2002
                                                                                           E c o n o m i c ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                   0.V      0.23     0.20      0.22
Gross domestic InvestmentlGDP                        26.3     48.4     21.7        6.3
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                     1.8      4.9     40.1                                    Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                           -5.2      3.2     -11.2
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                               ..    10.6     -3.2

Current account balancelGDP                             ..   -31.6    -22.1
Interest payments/GDP                                 0.6       1.3     5.6        3.6
Total debt/GDP                                      102.6    336.4    335.7
Total debt service/exports                              ..    59.5     59.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                             213.0
Present value of debtlexports                                         792.1                                 Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02      2001     2002 2002-06
(average annualgro wth)
GDP                                         3.6       0.1      0.2     -4.2                          -Guinea-Bissau

GDP percapita                               1.4      -2.0     -2.0     -6.3                                  Low-income group


STRUCTURE o f the E C O N O M Y
                                                             Igg2zoo1                    / G r o w t h o f investment and GDP (%)       h
(%ofGDP)
Agriculture                                          46.8     49.4     56.2       58.1
Industry                                             14.4     m.7       12.7      12.2     50
  M anufacturing                                               2.5      10.1       9.4
Services                                             38.6     39.9      31.1     29.7       0

Private consumption                                  15.1     81.8     98.9              -50
General government consumption                       29.4      9.o      12.3
Imports of goods and services                        41.3     50.1     13.6              I             -GDI            -GDP


                                               1982-92 1992-02       2o01      2o02       Growth o f exports and imports (%)
(average annualgro wth)
Agriculture                                           3.5      3.2       1.2       8.1   '50
Industry                                              2.8     -4.6      6.5          "   100
   M anufacturing                                    6.3      -3.7      5.9
Services                                             4.2      -0.1      9.2               50

                                                                                       -
Private consumption                                  -3.3      0.5    -16.0                0

General government cOnSUmPtiOn                       4.6       4.6    -14.2          ..                                              -
                                                                                         -50
Gross domestic investment                            14.6     -9.9     86.2       -1.9              -Exports          -Imports
Imports of goods and services                        -1.4      2.2     -5.8        9.9




                                                                   79

                                                                                                                            Guinea-Bissau
~~




  P R I C E S a n d G O V E R N M E N T F I N A N C E
                                                      1982   1992    2 0 0 1  2002
  D o m e s t i c p r i c e s                                                            I n f l a t i o n (%)                                      I
  (%change)                                                                              50

  Consumer prices                                             69.4      5 0       3.5    40
  Implicit GDP deflator                                16.5   65.0     -5 1       7.9
                                                                                         20
  G o v e r n m e n t finance
  (%of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       0

  Current revenue                                       0.0   13.9     22 5             -20
  Current budget balance                                0.0    -2.1    -0 7             I
  Overall surDlus/deficit                               0.0  -34.3    -16 4                              ---GDPdeflator            -CPI             I

  T R A D E
                                                      1982   1992    2001     2002
  (US$ millions)                                                                         E x p o r t a n d i m p o r t l e v e l s (US$ mill.)

  Totalexports (fob)                                             6       50              IO0 T
   Cashew nuts                                                   3       46
   Fish and shrimp                                                1        1             75
   M anufactures
  Total imports (cif)                                           95        81             50

   Food                                                         32       30
   Fuel and energy                                               5        9              25

   Capital goods                                                24        7                0

  Export price index(1995=WO)                                   86       69                      95         97   98      99       00     01     02

  Import price index(895=WO)                                    87       1%                               Exports             Imports
  Terms o f trade (S95=WO)                                      98       60


  B A L A N C E o f P A Y M E N T S
                                                      1982   1992    2 0 0 1  2 0 0 2     C u r r e n t a c c o u n t b a l a n c e t o G D P (%)
  (US$ millions)
  Exports of goods and SeNiCeS                           TI      11      55                0
  Imports of goods and Services                          80     113      116
  Resource balance                                     -62    -la2       -61              -5

  Net income                                                   -14       -16      -15    .10
  Net current transfers                                         30       32
                                                                                         .I5
                                                                                         20
  Current account balance                                     -86      -45

  Financing items (net)                                         91        41
  Changes in net reserves                                16     -5        4        -7

  M e m o :
  Reserves including goid (US$ millions)                        18        51      55
  Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                      0.7  x36.7   733 0    699.3


  E X T E R N A L D E B T a n d R E S O U R C E FLOWS
                                                      1982   1992    2 0 0 1  2 0 0 2
  (US$ millions)                                                                          C o m p o s i t i o n o f 2 0 0 1 debt (US$ mill.)
  Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  l70    761     668
    IBRD                                                  0      0         0
    IDA                                                  13    165     220                                        G: 18


  Total debt service                                      6      7       32
    IERD                                                  0      0         0
    IDA                                                   0      1        7

  Composition o f net resource flows
    Official grants                                      33     28       42
    Official creditors                                   TI     38      -14
    Private creditors                                     1      0         0
    Foreigndirect investment                              0      6       30
    Portfolio equity                                      0      0        0                                             D: 145
  World Bank program
    Commitments                                           0     lo         0              4    IBRD                                    E - Bilateral
    Disbursements                                         3      11        4              3 -- IDA          D -Other multilateral      F Private
    Principal repayments                                  0      0         5              3 - I M F                                    G Short-ter
                                                                                                                                        --




                                                                    80

