Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: 
39862
 
Project Name 
HIV/AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORT PROJECT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (40%);Sub-national government 
administration (40%);Health (20%) 
Project ID 
P073442 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
Implementing Agency 
 
NAS 
Prime Minister's Office 
Bissau 
Guinea-Bissau 
Tel: (245) 20-0000 
Fax: N.A. 
gabrielca@eguitel.com and coopmadrugada@eguitel.co 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 1, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 2, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
According to the most
 recent United Nations’ Human Development Index, Guinea-Bissau is one 
of the world’s poorest countries, and was ranked 156
th
 out of 162 countries in 2001.  The poverty 
rate in 2002 was estimated at 80 percent of the total population and the growth domestic product 
(GDP) at around US$250 million with GDP per capita over the period 1997-2000 averaging 
US$195 per annum. 
Guinea-Bissau became independent from Portuguese rule following a liberation struggle from 
1963-1974.  The eruption of an armed conflict in 1998-1999 brought to an end progress that had 
been made in economic development in Guinea-Bissau in the early 90s.  The conflict reduced 
real GDP by 28 percent and agricultural production by 17 percent.  Much of the physical 
infrastructure was severely damaged. Fiscal problems have hampered the implementation of all 
publicly financed programs, including activities to fight HIV/AIDS.   
Access to modern healthcare is limited and the health system is weak with one central hospital, 
four regional hospitals, and a patchwork of about 135 health centers and health posts of varying 
quality.  Much of the rural population have no or limited access to modern health care and use 
the services of traditional healers.      
Page  2
Availability of financial resources remains a serious problem.  Health services, which are crucial 
for HIV/AIDS mitigation, are in disarray and will take a long time to recover given the poor state 
of the physical infrastructure.  The displacement of people fuels transmission rates, which have 
increased following the civil war, especially among the under 30 age group. 
Some limited actions to prevent HIV/AIDS and mitigate its impact are being carried out by a few 
NGOs.  However, these NGOs are motivated only by goodwill and donor support has been weak.   
There are no comprehensive and reliable HIV statistics.  Available data from the Ministry of 
Health show that from 1994 to 1996, there were between 600 to 900 new cases per year, and 
1101 in 1999.  The disease is continuing to spread mostly along the main transportation axes 
from Bissau to Bafata, Gabu, and Cacheu.  According to the 2001 WHO EPMODEL 
calculations, health centers were only capturing around 16 percent of estimated cases.  It is 
projected that in the next years HIV-1 would infect 24 to 40 persons daily, while HIV-2 rates 
would continue to decline. 
The Government’s response
:
The importance of the HIV/AIDS epidemic is clear to the 
Government, which notes that “further evolution of this epidemic would be disastrous for the 
country’s development” and that “AIDS is not a problem pertaining to the health sector alone, it 
is also a social problem of national and global proportions, which requires alerting society more 
forcefully about the current epidemic in the country and mobilizing support from all partners to 
intensify the fight against the disease”.  
In a difficult environment during the last two years, the national team supported by donors has 
completed a Strategic National Plan (SNP) and a National Program for SNP implementation.  
The Government has also confirmed its commitment to a decentralized participatory approach, a 
multi-sectoral strategy, and a reliable and fully transparent financing system. Each of these 
elements are crucial to building an efficient MAP.    
 
2. 
Rationale for Bank's Involvement 
 
The Bank addresses HIV/AIDS as a developmental issue.  The September 1999 launch of the 
Bank's regional AIDS strategy, 
Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa
,
was well 
received by governments, private sector, and donors.  Through the Bank's Global HIV/AIDS 
Unit and the regional AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACT
africa
), UNAIDS, and other 
partnerships, the Bank is well positioned to contribute its regional experience to the project.   
The Government has requested access to IDA resources within the framework of the second 
phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP II) for the Africa Region.  Guinea-Bissau 
is eligible for MAP II funding and has satisfied the four eligibility criteria as follows: 
a) Guinea-Bissau already has a coherent national strategy and has developed a 
comprehensive medium-term, multi-sectoral plan in a participatory manner with all 
concerned stakeholders; 
b) It has created a National HIV/AIDS Council chaired by the Prime Minister with 
representation from government (one-third), civil society (one-third) and the private 
sector (one-third); 
c)  The Government has agreed to implementation procedures that would help expedite 
project implementation and outsource project implementation.   
Page  3
d) The Government has agreed to use and fund multiple implementation agencies as 
reflected in its plans to channel funds directly to both public and private implementing 
agencies, civil society organizations, NGOs, associations of PLWHA, and to 
communities.  
3. Original Objectives 
 
The project will support the medium-term strategy of the Government to expand and accelerate 
the national response to HIV/AIDS by:  (i) reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS infection; (ii) 
increasing access to treatment for STIs and HIV/AIDS; and iii) decreasing the socio-economic 
impacts of HIV/AIDS at the individual, household, and community levels. 
The project is consistent with the objectives of the Transitional Support Strategy, which will be 
presented to the Board before the end of 
2004.
The TSS supports the Government’s goal to 
improve access to basic social services. 
The project will support the Government in implementing its SNP and will provide the necessary 
resources and technical skills to scale up and improve delivery mechanisms for HIV/AIDS 
control activities.  The SNP was designed to take into account the following Government 
priorities: (i) build capacity at local and national level to ensure quality of services and expansion 
of existing good practices; (ii) mitigate the negative socioeconomic impact of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic; (iii) scale up advocacy measures to ensure full involvement of policy makers, civil 
society and the private sector; (iv) reach all vulnerable groups to prevent new HIV infections; (v) 
promote positive socio-cultural behavioral changes; (vi) improve the institutional framework; 
and (vii) ensure sustainability of the overall program. 
The project will focus on the following strategic choices to support SNP implementation: (a) 
intensify prevention, care and mitigation at the grass-roots level; (b) improve the health care 
system related to HIV/AIDS; (c) facilitate full public sector involvement; (d) support 
institutional strengthening; (e) ensure essential access to Anti Retroviral Treatment (ART) and 
treatment for Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI); and (f) mainstream gender issues. 
4.  Original Project Description 
 
Total project costs amount to US$7.0 million.  The project will be implemented through three 
components: (i) Community and Civil Society Initiatives and Capacity Building (US$2.5 
million); (ii) Government Multi-Sector Response (US$2.2 million); and (iii) Institutional 
Development for Program Management (US$2.3 million).  IDA funding would not be sufficient 
to support the national program without complementary funding from the GFATM.  Hence the 
IDA supported project will focus on five pilot regions only.  GFATM has already committed to 
provide US$2 million to the Tuberculosis program. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
7 
FRANCE: Ministry of Foreing Affairs (MOFA) 
0 
 Total 
7 
Page  4
6. Implementation 
 
The project will support the updated SNP and will be under direct supervision of the Prime 
Minister's Office (PMO).  Policymaking will be the responsibility of the NAC.  The NAS, 
headed by a National Secretary, will carry out coordination, technical support, and financing at 
the national level. NAC and NAS would be autonomous from Government and two-thirds of the 
NAC Board would be from civil society.  NAS technical staff would be recruited using open, 
transparent and competitive procedures internationally advertised and maintained on the basis of 
annually renewable performance contracts.  Continued financing from the Bank would be 
contingent on a satisfactory institutional assessment within one year of grant effectiveness.  
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.  The project preparation advance 
will provide funding for the hiring of technical staff. 
 
The RCs will coordinate and provide technical support to project implementation at the local and 
regional levels.  Implementation of project supported activities will be the responsibility of 
CBOs, associations, and the public and private sector, which will contract NGOs and technical 
assistance when needed.  Annex 6 provides detailed implementation arrangements. 
 
7. Sustainability 
The project is expected to be sustainable institutionally, as it is built on strong government 
ownership and broad partnerships.  It will gradually expand interventions in line with capacities 
and progressively mainstream HIV/AIDS activities into major government sectors and civil 
society.  The project emphasizes institutional capacity building at national, state, and local levels.  
At the community level, sustainability will be bolstered by participatory methodologies for 
identifying subprojects, end-user accountability, and tying replenishments to results.  With 
regard to financial sustainability, it is unlikely that Government will be able to finance even a 
part of the program over the medium term given the precarious position of public finances.  The 
country will therefore remain dependent on support from bilateral and multilateral agencies 
beyond the initial period of implementation.  
 
B.  Rationale for restructuring 
Since the grant supporting the Project became effective in January 2005, some progress has been 
made by the country. . Prevention activities have gradually expanded and now include all key 
ministries and there is an increased access to condoms to all sexually active age groups. A 
national communications strategy was launched with the help of rural radios and Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to focus on reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS infection; its 
effectiveness is presently being assessed. Access to treatment for sexually transmitted diseases 
and HIV/AIDS has been expanded and it is planned to continue to do so in the five priority 
regions as part of a multi-donor collaborative effort (250 persons receiving anti-viral treatment, 
expanded support for prevention of mother to child transmission). Finally, NGOs have continued 
to provide education, health and nutrition support to those affected by HIV/AIDS. A scheme to 
increase access to micro-credit for this group is presently under preparation in collaboration with 
the United Nations Development Program. 
The project has a number of specific challenges which will have significant negative impact on 
the outcomes of the Project if not addressed through this restructuring: (i) overall M&E and 
Page  5
specifically, data collection and reporting, remains the critical bottleneck in the national M&E 
system. This will require the revision and realignment of key performance indicators and their 
targets to the reality and the capacity of the country to collect and report progress; (ii)  the 
current PDO needs to be revised to acknowledge that the country does not have the capacity and 
adequate resources to reduce the spread of HIV infection (as defined in the current PDO) 
especially within the project timeframe; (iii) increased support to Ministry of Health is needed to 
develop and roll out the ART strategy to strengthen the integrated health network.  Support to 
development of health sector infrastructure to improve access to treatment was planned to be 
included in the National Health Sector Development Project 
–
this did not materialize. Since 
improving access to ART is not a possibility without support from the current Project, 
reallocations are needed in some expenditure categories; (iv) the roles of the National AIDS 
Council and its Secretariat need to be strengthened for better integration of the Bank financed 
and the Global Fund financed interventions. This will support the country in meeting the 
principles of the 
Three Ones;
 (v) social marketing of condoms has been stopped by PSI and 
given the limited capacity in-country for sustainable social marketing, the emphasis will be 
shifted to distribution through pubic sector agencies as well as one or two national NGOs; and 
(vi) skills building to support income generation activities for PLWHA and commercial sex 
workers needs to be targeted and prioritized to reflect limited resources and capacity.  In 
addition, it would be difficult to attain the current DO within the project implementation period 
given the precarious state of national infrastructure and the level of international support.  
Therefore the project needs to be extended by 12 months. 
The proposed restructuring also takes into account the nature of the epidemic in Bissau.  Based 
on limited date, the epidemic is primarily concentrated among those 25 years and older, and in 
particular in the age group 45 years and older.  No overall prevalence data are available and 
Guinea-Bissau has only formally reported on sub-groups such as the military or from donors to 
the national blood bank.  Early sexual activity (10% by age 11), multiple partners coupled with 
lack of knowledge of methods of transmission and low condom use require that prevention 
activities are focused in particular on the younger age groups, while a mixture of prevention, care 
and mitigation activities will be focused on older groups.  In addition stigma to HIV positive 
people is very strong, which is why the project has provided support to strengthen the National 
Association of People Living with HIV/AIDS and anti-discrimination legislation. 
Revised PDO.  The proposed amendments will refine the DO as follows:  The Project will 
support i
ncreased access to HIV prevention, care, treatment and mitigation services
 
Key performance indicators will be redefined in line with the existing capacity and resources, 
target resources to the vulnerable groups, strengthen institutional and coordination mechanisms 
with other donors; strengthen national monitoring and evaluation capacity, and integrate the 
ART strategy of Ministry of Health and provide support to improved infrastructure.  
 
C.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assesment 
[X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management  
[ ] 
[X] 
Cultural Property  
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement  
[ ] 
[X] 
Page  6
Indigenous Peoples  
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests  
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams  
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas* 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways 
[ ] 
[X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas 
 
D.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
Identification of best practices: 
 
-
National Acces System to ARV: Anne Marie Bodo/Elizabeth Moreira Dos Santos 
-
Community and Traditional practitioners’ involvement: ENDA Tiers Monde 
-
Creation of an Association of PLHVIH: ENDA Tiers Monde 
-
Religious Involvement: ENDA Tiers Monde 
-
Strategical Plan and Instruments for the creation of testing and counselling centers:  
Sonia Maria Batista Da Silva 
-
Making of a kit for informal sexual education: Simone Souza Monteiro 
-
HIV/AIDS Human Rights and Law in Guinea Bissau: Ousmane Sane 
 
Design of a decentralized funding mechanism
:
OMS Consulting/Julio Injucam 
 
Design of an IEC strategy:
 Jacques Da Matha/Jose Rodrigues Santy 
 
Design of a national participatory strategy to fight against HIV/AIDS:
 Abdessalam Farza/ 
Inacio Alvarenga 
 
Preparation of a strategy for orphan and PLWHA:
 Marie France Adrien/Cheikh Sagna 
 
Diagnostic of existing health care facilities:
 Fernando Vasco Da Silva Marques 
 
Preparation of Health Service Delivery Component:
 Fernando Vasco Da Silva Marques 
 
MAP Restructuring Proposal:
 Abdessalam Farza. 
 
Other Studies or documents:
-
The HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan (2007) 
-
Second Phase Global Fund financing proposal (2006) 
 
E.  Contact point 
Contact: Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo 
Title: Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-3358 
Fax:  
Email: Dprevoo@worldbank.org 
Page  7
F.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
