Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15062-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 4, 1996
Macro, Industry and Finance Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1996)
Currency Unit   Zimbabwe Dollar
US$1.00 = Zim$9.53
GLOSSARY
ADB            African Development Bank
AFC            Agriculture Finance Corporation
BLR            Base Lending Rate
BSD            Banking Supervision Departnent (Reserve Bank)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBZ            Commercial Bank of Zimbabwe
CGC            Credit Guarantee Company
CGA            Credit Guarantee Agency
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CPI            Consumer Price Index
CREDSURE   Credit Insurance of Zimbabwe
CSO            Central Statistical Office
CZI            Confederation ofZimbabwe Industries
EDP            Enterprise Development Project
EPSS           Export Promotion Support Service
EPZ            Export Processing Zone
ESAP           Economic Structural Adjustment Progam
FCAs           Foreign Currency Accounts
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment
Fl             Financial Institution
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOZ            Government of Zimbabwe
ICR            Inmplementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
[PR            Inward Processing Rebate
JV            Joint Ventures
LA             Licencing Agreement
LIBOR          London InterBank Offering Rate
MIS            Management Information System
MOIC           Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MMF            Matchmaker Fund
MM             Matchmaking Management Contractor
NCDs           Negotiable Certificate of Deposits
NGO            Non-Government Organizations
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PF Is          Participating Financial Intermediaries
PN             Promissory Note
PSIP           Public Sector Investment Program
PlTC           Public Telecommunications Corporation of Zimbabwe
RBZ            Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
RPED           Regional Program for Enterprise Development
SA             Special Account
SBAI           Subsector Business Associations Initiative
SBU            Small Business Unit
SEDCO          Small Enterprise Development Corporation
SME            Small and Medium Enterprise
SMSE           Small and Microenterprise Development Project
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
SSEs           Small Scale Enterprises
T/MA           Technical and/or Marketing Agreements
UDI            Unilateral Declaration of Independence
LIK            United Kingdom
LUSAID         US Agency for international Development
ZABO           Zimbabwe Association of Business Organizations
ZDB            Zimbabwe Developing Bank
ZIC            Zimbabwe Investment Center
ZISCO          Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company
ZMGS           ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme
ZNCC           Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce
ZSE            Zimbabwe Stock Exchange
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
I meter (m)                  =               3.28 feet
I square meter (sq. m)                       10.76 square feet
I kilonmeter (km)            =               0.62 miles
I square kilometer (sq. k)   =               0.386 square miles
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE FISCAL YEAR
July I- June 30



ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary
1. INTRODUCTION  ....................................................................                                                            ]1
2. THE PRIVATE SECTOR .........................................................2
A. Description  of the Private Sector .........................................................2
B. The Policy Environment .........................................................4
C. Enterprise Finance and  Financing  Constraints .........................................................7
D. The Export Sector ..........................................................7
E. Small and Medium   Enterprises ..........................................................9
F. Business Support Services - Information  Linkages and Market Intelligence ............................ I 1
3. FINANCIAL MARKETS AND  THEIR  REGULATION .........................................................                                           13
4. THE PROJECT ........................................................                                                                         16
A. Origin  and Relation with  Country  Assistance Strategy .........................................................  16
B. Lessons Learned  From   Past Experience .........................................................                                            17
C. Project Objectives ........................................................                                                                  17
D. Project Description ........................................................                                                                 18
E. Project Cost and Financing  Plan .........................................................                                                  25
F. Project Implementation ........................................................                                                             26
G. Environment ........................................................                                                                        31
H. Project Benefits and Risks ........................................................                                                         32
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................................... 33
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal mission which visited Zimbabwe in October
1995. The mission was led by Mark Dorfman (Task Manager) and was comprised of Kapil Kapoor (Co-
Task Manager, AFIZB), Brian Levy (AFlMI), Yung Whee Rhee and Judith Brandsma (PSD), and Kafu
Awunyo (LEGAF). Georgette Johnson provided secretarial support. Ataman Aksoy and Barbara Kafka
are the managing Division Chief and Country Operations Manager, respectively, for the operation. This
project was prepared under the direction of Katherine Marshall, Director, AF 1.



TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Racial Origin by Firm Size ....................................... 10
Table 2: Interest Rates and Spreads .......................................                       14
Table 3: Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan ...................         ..................... 26
Table 4: Procurement ........................................ 29
Table 5: Disbursements ....................................... 30
Table 6: Estimated IDA Disbursements ....................................... 30
SUPPORTING ANNEXES
A. Business Services ........................................ 35
B. Finance Component ....................................... .                                    53
C. Institutional Development Component ..................                   ...................... 71
D. Outline of Project Functions ......................................... 79
E. Operation of the Administrative Secretariat               ........................................ 80
F. Project Implementation Schedule ........................................                       81
G. Summary of Procurement Arrangements                    ....................................... 86
H. Summary of Disbursement Arrangements                    ....................................... 87
I. Project Supervision Plan .......................................                               88
J. Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators ....................... ................ 92
K. Documents Available in the Project File               ........................................ 100
MAP IBRD-26057R



ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Government of Zimbabwe
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Industry and Commerce
Beneficiaries:         Private Sector Enterprises, Participating Financial Institutions
Poverty:               This project does not represent a program of targeted interventions and thus
does not have a poverty category.  The project is expected to offer a
significant improvement in poverty alleviation through sustainable
employment generation by emerging enterprises, including the generation of
approximately 2,700 jobs.
Amount:                SDR 47.5 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA Terms (40 Year Maturity, 10 Years Grace, 0.75% Interest)
Commitment Fee:        0.50% on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
On-lending Terms:      *  SME Financing: Funds provided to Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs) at the average cost of funds of the commercial banking system;
* Export Financing: Funds provided to PFIs at an average variable-rate cost
of US$ funds of the banking system from abroad, currently LIBOR +
0.875%; and
* Rates to final borrowers freely negotiated between PFIs and their clients.
Financing Plan:        See paras. 4.28-4.29.
Net Present Value:     $52 Million at a discount rate of 12% (economic rate of return of 25%); see
Annex J.
Staff Appraisal        15062-ZIM
Report:
Map:                   IBRD-26057R
Project Identification    35628
No.:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1         Zimbabwe is a relatively large Southern Africa country with a total area of about
390,700 square kilometers and a strong natural resource base. Its population of about 10.4
million people (1992) has a significant natural population increase (3.1% per annum) and 28% of
the population lives in urban areas. Zimbabwe's principal economic activities are manufacturing
(29% of GDP in 1993), agriculture (about 15%), mining and quarrying (about 7%), distribution,
hotels and restaurants (11%) and other services, the remaining 38%. The rate of growth of
output in the post-independence period has been modest, averaging about 2.5% per annum,
reasonably evenly-spread across major sectors, uneven over time and, unfortunately, below the
rate of population growth. In the first decade after independence, economic policies continued
the pre-independence focus on an inward orientation, including strict controls on foreign
exchange allocation, investment and prices, as well as controls on wages and labor. Long-term
macroeconomic trends generally have been characterized by economic stability, with import
substitution policies contributing to the emergence of a large and diversified manufacturing base
and self-sufficiency in food staples and agricultural raw materials.
1.2         The economic structure which characterized Zimbabwe prior to independence in
1980 continued thereafter -- a small number of highly vertically-integrated firms run by whites
and multinational corporations controlled the bulk of the productive capacity, while most black
Zimbabweans remained subsistence farmers or holders of subsistence microenterprises. The
policy framework solidified and perpetuated this bipolar economic structure.
1.3         Faced with an increasing dead-end in growth in aggregate demand, in 1991 the
Government embarked upon a significant structural adjustment and liberalization program, the
Economic Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP) which entailed far-reaching reforms to
accelerate economic growth and broaden participation. While economic performance during
1991 was encouraging, a severe drought in 1992 and again in 1994 caused output levels to
decline. Incomes were severely eroded, resulting in a drastic decline in purchasing power. The
shortfall in domestic demand, compounded by the tight monetary stance of the Government and
the resulting high interest rates, delayed the recovery process which only started to take hold in
the second half of 1993.
1.4         The reforms adopted under the ESAP began a process of liberalization whereby
resource allocation in Zimbabwe has become increasingly market-based and many of the legal
barriers to enterprise development have been removed. However, these reforms represent the
initiation of a process that requires a continuing series of steps to improve the regulatory
framework, macroeconomic incentive framework, and the implementation capacity to manage a
market economy. Since then, there has been some instability in exchange rates and prices
because of remaining barriers, recurrent drought, and difficulties in sustaining fiscal discipline.
High real interest rates and their volatility as a result of unprecedented levels of borrowing by the
government, which mopped up long-term funds from the system, have had a depressing effect on



- 2 -
the demand for debt financing, particularly longer-term financing. As a result of these factors,
the supply response to the enacted economic reforms has remained modest.
1.5         At this juncture in the adjustment process, what is most needed is for large
existing firms to restructure themselves to compete in the international market, and for SMEs to
increase their ability to perform specialized functions formerly performed by large firms, and
increasingly compete in production for the domestic market. This project aims to accelerate and
perpetuate a process whereby some of the identified micro-level supply constraints, principally
information (business services), financial (credit), and institutional (implementation capacity) are
loosened so as to accelerate this process of generating a supply response and broadening
participation.
2. THE PRIVATE SECTOR
A. Description of the Private Sector
2.1         Background.  Following independence, Zimbabwe maintained controls on
foreign exchange allocation, investment and prices, and added others on wages and labor. This
continued the inward orientation of the economy, constrained flexibility and resulted in change
being slow. The system of racial exclusion practiced by the previous government resulted in few
black Zimbabweans owning formal sector enterprises or accumulating capital. The productive
capacity of the country, outside of the low productivity "communal lands," was in the hands of
the State (16%), White and Asian citizens (28%), and foreign interests (56%). The Government
removed implicit racial restrictions, and set up development finance institutions such as the
Small Enterprise Development Corporation (SEDCO), and the Zimbabwe Development Bank
(ZDB) in 1983-1984, but did not introduce a comprehensive program to change the structure of
ownership. A significant emphasis on black entrepreneurial development only began at the end
of the 1980s as liberalization began to remove some of the barriers to indigenous business
development. SEDCO got off to a slow start and increased its loan volume by 1989/90. From
1986/87 to 1990/91, SEDCO approved 1,188 loans, while ZDB and commercial banks only
recently began to support new and small-scale enterprises to any significant extent. Finance was
not the only restriction, however, and individual entrepreneurs who attempted to establish
themselves ran up against the dominance of established enterprises. This dominance was
entrenched by the continuation of economic policies which explicitly gave established
enterprises privileged access to key resources, particularly foreign currency, and subjected new
entrants to a complex set of restrictive regulations. As a result, the emergence and growth of
viable small-scale enterprises remained restricted.
2.2         While measures adopted since have removed many barriers, the benefits resulting
from the ESAP are perceived to flow disproportionately to the most privileged segments of the
population.  Yet the combination of incentive reform and deregulation have created the
opportunity to both increase the rate and alter the pattern of growth. It is thus crucial both to
accelerate the rate of growth and broaden participation in this growth -- broad-based growth will
likely result in the greatest labor market absorption.
2.3         Manufacturing. Zimbabwe is one of the most industrialized countries in Africa,
with the manufacturing sector producing about 29% of GDP and a wide array of commodities



ranging from food and clothing to fertilizers and chemicals, metal products of all kinds, electrical
machinery and equipment and motor vehicle assembly. Next to agriculture, it is one of the most
important sources of employment, providing livelihood to about 16% of the formal workforce in
1992. Notwithstanding its sophistication and importance to the economy, the rate of growth of
manufacturing output has averaged less than 3% per annum in the post-independence period, and
growth in employment in manufacturing since independence has been less than that of the
population. The reasons for this modest performance are, to a large extent, a reflection of the
policy environment, characterized by extensive price and investment controls and a highly
regulated foreign exchange allocation system, which the sector has had to contend for nearly
three decades. As a result of these distortions, the sector, over the years, had become excessively
inward-looking and dependent upon the limited domestic market. The ESAP program has
started to improve the structure of incentives and regulations, but the supply response to date
remains modest.
2.4          Manufacturing export performance had generally been poor, with exports actually
declining between 1981 and 1986, before growing by 6.8% per annum between 1986 and 1990.
This is modest, especially in light of the wider range of export incentives available during the
latter period.  Over the period 1981-1990, average growth was only 2.5%  per annum.
Manufactured exports did increase from 29% of total merchandise exports (including gold) in
1981 to 36% in 1990. Evidence from surveys conducted recently', however, shows that, as a
result of the ongoing reform program, there have been important changes in the manufacturing
sector, and there is evidence that resource allocation is changing in such a way as to increase
productivity in the manufacturing sector, in part through generation of exports. In the 1991-93
period, exporting companies grew at a substantially faster rate and also exhibited higher gross
investment levels. The fall in employment, which has been a common feature in several
industries, is also markedly less in companies with a higher percentage of exports in total
turnover. Labor intensive sectors have benefited from the sharp reduction in real wages,
reinforcing the expansion of exports.
2.5          Agriculture. Although the GDP share of agriculture is smaller in Zimbabwe than
in most other African countries, the economy is highly dependent upon agriculture, with the
sector providing 70% of total employment and 40% of merchandise exports. Approximately
60% of manufacturing value-added is either related to agro-industry or to the provision of inputs
into agriculture. Many services, including a sizable proportion of domestic trade, are closely
associated with agriculture. Performance of the agriculture sector has been modest, with
agricultural output growing by about 2.4% on average per annum during the first decade of
independence. While agricultural output grew rapidly in the early-to-mid 1980s as a result of
expanded plantings and yields underpinned by heavy public sector support in marketing
infrastructure and credit, it has been stagnant since then, with smallholder agriculture
experiencing declines in output and productivity.  Although an important reason for this
mediocre performance is the variability of rainfall, more fundamental causes have been declining
producer prices in real terms, reduced availability of formal sector credit, declining effectiveness
of research and extension services, and a contraction of public sector marketing services. The
introduction, since structural adjustment, of far-reaching marketing and pricing policy reforms in
See, for example, Jan Willem Gunning, ed., The Manufacturing Sector in Zimbabwe: Dynamics and Constraints, April
1994, Free University, Amsterdam and University of Zimbabwe, Harare.



- 4 -
the agricultural sector are expected to have a strong impact on the systems for marketing several
major commodities. These policy changes represent a significant change from the past. Parallel
changes in import licensing and foreign exchange retention have increased the availability of
inputs required by farmers and agro-processors. Evidence of a supply response to the reforms
has come in several forms, including the emergence of urban hammer millers and of small-scale
oil expressors, and a growing interest on the part of commercial farners to produce commodities
for export. Broader interest is also emerging in the production of value-added agricultural
products, including ethanol, animal feed, and canned, frozen, and dehydrated foods. At the same
time, there has been a continued expansion of the country's export-oriented horticultural industry,
as evidenced by double-digit growth rates in trade, by a large expansion in citrus plantings in the
past three years, and by the growing numbers of large- and small-scale commercial growers
entering into cut flower production.
2.6         Mining. Zimbabwe is a mineral-abundant country, with the formal mining sector
employing about 50,000 people, contributing about 5% to GDP and accounting for about 23% of
total export earnings. Most of the minerals are gold, asbestos, nickel, copper, coal and chrome
ore, and most are exported in their raw form or as semi-processed metals. Notwithstanding the
decline in 1992 and 1993, the value of mining production has been rising steadily in recent years,
in local currency terms, largely as a result of currency depreciation. While mining output grew
only 1% per annum during the 1980s, increased profitability (in part due to exchange rate
depreciation), has helped to spur significant new investment and higher growth is now expected.
Although mineral prices continue to remain extremely volatile in the world market, there is
considerable optimism within the mining sector in Zimbabwe over its medium-term prospects,
and the sector has continued to attract new investment.
2.7         Tourism. Zimbabwe's attraction as a tourist resort stems largely from the wide
variety of scenery, flora and fauna of the country, one of the best climates in the world. Despite
these natural attractions, very limited tourism development occurred preceding independence
because of an effective global embargo. Visitor arrivals, which peaked in 1972 at 400,000, fell
to 270,000 in 1975 and further to 79,000 in 1979, of which 80% were from Southern Africa.
There was slow growth in visitor arrivals until the late 1980s but in 1992, upwards of 700,000
visitors arrived in Zimbabwe. Between 1980 and 1992, the total number of visitors grew at an
annual average rate of about 10%, and the share of tourism receipts as a percentage of GDP has
also increased from 0.8% in 1980 to about 2.6% in 1992. If the indirect and induced effects of
tourism are taken into account, the share of the sector, in both employment creation and GDP, is
probably much greater. New employment creation in the sector has been growing at an annual
rate of about 20%, far in excess of other sectors of the economy. Although the statistics on
growth of tourism are very encouraging, the tourism sector continues to rely too heavily on
regional markets with limited diversification of the tourism source markets. A strong component
of Zimbabwean tourism is also due to family visits reflecting the ethnic links between the various
population groups in the country and other neighboring states.
B. The Policy Environment
2.8         Background. To date, important reform measures have been undertaken to
improve the environment for enterprise development. With and since the ESAP in 1991, the
Government has been attempting to correct the anti-export bias and substantial changes have



- 5 -
been made to the exchange and trade regime. These changes in policy have resulted in
improving the access of the private sector to scarce foreign exchange, increasing price
competitiveness through trade liberalization and reduced barriers to capital movements.
Although much has been done, more remains to correct anti-export biases (see paras. 2.11, 2.12
and 4.24 below). Considerable measures have also been undertaken to improve the incentive
framework for emerging enterprises producing for the domestic market. These have included the
deregulation of domestic markets and distribution systems and modifications to local zoning
ordinances, to enable SMEs to develop and use appropriate factory space.  Considerable
measures have been taken, albeit more is to be done, to make infrastructure sufficient and
reliable enough for emerging exporters. In particular, measures are needed to improve the
provision of telephone service, reduce the cost and improve the on-time arrivals for air freight
and expand electricity coverage.  Finally, the Government has largely removed former
restrictions on new entrants in financial intermediation, and is considering draft legislation to
improve the regulatory framework (See paras 3.5 to 3.7 below). On the macro side, actions
needed include strong fiscal management and supportive exchange rate management aimed at
maintaining a stable pattern of relative prices and export profitability.
2.9          The experience of other developing countries with relatively large inward-oriented
manufacturing sectors demonstrates that firms, such as those in Zimbabwe, can increase
productivity and expand by penetrating export markets, provided the policy environment
facilitates such adjustment. Firms can often do this by restructuring their product mix and
production processes, thereby expanding output with a small amount of investment. This calls
for an array of initiatives to reduce the remaining anti-export bias, and enable Zimbabwean firms
to become internationally competitive. These include strengthening the duty drawback and
Inward Processing Rebate systems, as well as developing Export Processing Zones. Provisions
to ensure that exporters have access to material inputs at world prices are central, but to realize
the full potential for export-oriented growth, it is also critical that the anti-export bias inherent in
relatively high border taxes be greatly reduced, that any infrastructure constraints be removed
and that exporters have access to competitively priced finance.
2.10         Taxes, Tariffs and Customs Procedures. Import liberalization since 1991 has
dramatically improved access to imported materials and capital goods, and real exchange rate
depreciation has greatly increased the competitiveness of Zimbabwean exports in international
markets, but tariff collections remain high, and exporters are still far from free from the burden
of taxes on their material inputs. Zimbabwe has one of the highest tariff collection rates in the
world, despite having a nominal tariff structure (most imports have tariff collection rates of 15 -
25%) that is not exceptionally high by developing country standards. This is because Zimbabwe
has tariffs on basic inputs, while these attract zero duty in many other countries. This increases
the cost of final goods, making them uncompetitive in external markets. This then leads to
needing significant tariff protection on downstream products. This taxation of inputs creates a
major problem for the effective implementation of duty/tax rebate systems to enable exporters to
be competitive. Even if rebates or duty exemptions can be given to direct exporters, indirect
exporters (local firms who compete in supplying these inputs) would still face a cost
disadvantage, because the existing duty drawback system is very inefficient in granting relief to
such exports, and their inputs, in turn, are taxed.



- 6 -
2.11         Few exporters have been able to gain timely duty relief from the effects of import
tariffs under either of the current schemes - duty drawback, or duty suspension or exemption
under inward processing rebate (IPR) provisions. Meanwhile, the domestic tax regime creates
modest cascading in the cost of locally-produced goods. This is particularly evident with respect
to services, as providers of these services must charge tax on their sales yet also pay sales tax on
their inputs. This creates a double tax effect in the cost structure as passed on to consumers.
Exporters currently cannot reclaim any of the taxes which are embodied in the cost of services
they employ. Small-scale, indirect and new exporters have found it particularly difficult to gain
relief from indirect taxes. In fact, since repayment of duties is often delayed by some nine
months and cannot be relied upon, exporters generally have to price their goods sufficiently high,
based on the assumption that they will not receive a drawback, therefore the scheme is not
affecting the volume of exports. This deficiency needs to be rectified, and firms given full and
timely relief from the cost increasing effects of all taxes on inputs they can successfully switch
from being focused on the domestic market to being export-oriented.
2.12         Concrete steps would be supported by the project to limit, mitigate or remove the
anti-export biases against exporters, and, in particular, small export producers and indirect
exporters (see paras. 4.24 to 4.25 and Annex C). These would include: (i) strengthening the
capacity of the Customs and Excise Department to administer the existing IPR and Duty
Drawback programs; (ii) establishing and publishing standard input-output coefficients; (iii)
computerizing the processing of tariff tabulations and calculations; and (iv) establishing
regulations and implementing guidelines for a Licensed Common Bonded Manufacturing
Warehouse Scheme.
2.13         Export Processing Zones (EPZs).  Zimbabwe recently enacted legislation
authorizing the establishment of Export Processing Zones. To attract and retain a broad range of
producers, the legislation provides firms with the basis for a package of incentives which are
internationally competitive, and which will minimize administrative and other impediments to
free trade. The legislation, however, is general and no implementing regulations to date have
been drafted, nor has a staff been appointed for an EPZ Authority charged with enforcing the
legislation. Assurance of a best practice EPZ regime will depend on the execution of these
provisions, as well as the transparency of the implementing regulations. The project would
support meeting those objectives.
2.14         Infrastructure. Surveys have shown that constraints on infrastructure are seen
by firms as a serious problem for their development. Irrespective of the size or the sector,
telecommunications is identified as the most serious infrastructure problem, followed by
electricity and workers' transport. The difficulty with which firms can have access to efficient
telephone service has served as an entry barrier. Small firms rated freight transport as a bigger
problem than larger firms, and also rated other infrastructure problems highly. A less formal
assessment also suggests that the cost of factory space, including either new site and construction
costs (including financing costs) or rental costs have a large impact on the cost structure of
SMEs. Survey data is supported by financial analysis. For example, freight makes up more than
half the cost of supplying fresh horticulture products (including roses and chiles) to Europe and
hence, competitiveness is heavily dependent on freight rates. Unfortunately, air freight costs
from Harare are significantly higher than from directly-competing airports such as Nairobi,
Arusha (Tanzania), and Johannesburg, because of problems with the State-owned air freight



- 7 -
company, Affretair. Second, competitiveness in these products is adversely affected by the poor
quality of service, including delays which destroy perishable exports. In terms of transport,
Beira is by far the most geographically convenient port for land-locked Zimbabwe. However, in
spite of substantial recent investment in port facilities, and increased reliability of rail and road
links through Mozambique, problems remain, resulting in uncertainty of delivery and delays in
the period to get to port. As a result, Zimbabwe continues to depend on the longer rail-sea link
via Durban, and is not able to exploit to the full the geographical advantages of the Beira link.
Finally, an evaluation by the Bank found that the cost offactory space is significantly above that
of neighboring countries, including Mauritius. While few legal barriers have been identified to
the efficient functioning of a market for small factory shells, access to financing of the
developers of such shells remains limited, which both accentuates concentration, and appears to
result in large margins between rental rates charged and mortgage payments made by owners that
have precious access to finance.
C. Enterprise Finance and Financing Constraints
2.15         While Zimbabwe has a relatively developed banking and finance sector, data from
the RPED Study indicates that enterprises have limited access to external financing2. Just as in
most countries, firms have relied predominantly on internal as opposed to formal institutional
finance, including financing of start-ups. The same pattern is observed when financing post
start-up investments in land and buildings, and plant and machinery. Also, smaller enterprises
can be expected to incur higher transaction costs per unit of formal sector finance. However,
internal financing has historically been particularly large in Zimbabwe, with the bulk of
corporate investments having been undertaken using internally-generated funds, and the
corporate sector has been less dependent on the banking sector than common in other countries.
Hence, while credit was seen as important for small-scale and black-owned businesses, little
emphasis was placed on it as an overall investment constraint. However, around 1990, a large
shift in the structure of corporate finance occurred in response to the increased capital formation
and other uses of funds. Before 1990, only 23% of funds for investment were from sources
outside the firm. Since then, external sources have been dominant. Higher investment in
financial assets, as well as in inventory, and increased financing of trading partners, are behind
this widening need for external finance.
D. The Export Sector
2.16         Annual export growth in Zimbabwe has been only about 3%, and exports have
been heavily dependent on agricultural products and minerals, leaving the country vulnerable to
changes in commodity prices. However, as a result of some reduction in the anti-export bias,
there is evidence of increasing exporting activity in a number of non-traditional areas such as
horticulture, footwear, furniture, garments and textiles, chemicals, etc.; footwear and textiles
have experienced the largest increase in exports in recent years. Increasing import levels to meet
the development needs of the country, while at the same time reducing the deficit to sustainable
levels, will require aggressive action aimed at further increasing exports and diversifying the
export base.  Faster export growth, creating an additional exogenous source of aggregate
demand, is critical to sustain a higher overall growth rate. The growth of non-traditional and
2  For a description of the financial sector, see para. 3.1 below.



- 8 -
value-added exports is also critical to diversifying Zimbabwe's economic structure and exports,
thereby reducing vulnerability to external shocks. To generate this rapid increase in exports,
Zimbabwean firms need to become competitive with foreign producers, and exporting needs to
become as financially rewarding as selling on the local market. Only then can exporters
penetrate foreign market and attract investment. The recent depreciation of the Zimbabwean
dollar has done much to improve the relative profitability of export-oriented and efficient import
substituting activities, and the liberalization of imports has improved access to material inputs.
Moreover, trade liberalization, tax exemptions and the removal of investment licensing provide
ready access to capital goods at world prices. Yet, as indicated, while on the macro level
important measures have been adopted to support export expansion, exporters remain constrained
by remaining anti-export biases in the taxation of inputs, capital constrained for trade financing,
and a limited understanding by the exporters of the requirements of overseas markets. These
factors would be addressed by this project.
2.17        Trade Financing. Foreign currency-denominated export loans in Zimbabwe are
currently provided by merchant and, to a lesser degree, commercial banks for the shipment of
exports and imports, pre- and post-shipment, sourced from offshore credit lines, and generally
backed by "memorandum of deposit agreements" administered by the RBZ and regulated by the
Government External Loans Co-ordination Committee. These have been granted based on
Government's intention to ease the high interest rate burden of local currency loans on exporters.
Banks are "advised" by the RBZ that they should source at least 70% of the pre- and post-
shipment working capital requirements of any manufacturer engaged in export activity, based on
a confirmed export order from offshore sources, at an annual interest rate that is not higher than
LIBOR plus 0.875%, and on-lent to the exporter with the bank's indicative margin of 1% to 2%
for up to 180 to 270 days. Thus while two banks can source funds at below this rate, none can
exceed it under the memorandum of deposit agreement.
2.18        Yet while multiple facilities exist, there exists considerable evidence that a large
volume of potentially creditworthy exporters still have limited credit access.  Moreover,
continued high real interest rates create a brake on expansion of trade financing. Apparently,
foreign banks have been offering the offshore credit lines to Zimbabwe banks based on the above
guideline of the RBZ, under the understanding that benefiting exporters are well-established
companies with good credit standings. Those exporters who have poor credit standings with
banks due to their lack ofphysical collateral and track records, or those infant or SME exporters
for whom the banks are reluctant to commit resources to conduct thorough credit investigations,
would face these offshore credit line supply constraints, even if the banks would be willing to
grant export loans, based on confirmed export LICs and a revitalized Preshipment Export
Finance Guarantee coverage.  In turn, the Reserve Bank's own export finance scheme
(denominated in US$) has not been very effective in meeting the needs of SMEs or new
exporters. This is believed to be due to weaknesses in administration and marketing, each of
which would be addressed under the proposed project. The Zimbabwe Development Bank's
(ZDB's) export finance scheme is in a pilot stage, and appears to aim primarily at existing ZDB
borrowers.
2.19        Although post-shipment risk can be minimized by the use of instruments such as
irrevocable letters of credit, commercial banks face a more complex risk when extending pre-
shipment financing, i.e., that the exporter might not perform and might fail to get the goods on



-9-
the ship, as specified in the letter of credit. In many countries, banks not used to handling such
risks are assisted, at least in the early years, by schemes of pre-shipment performance guarantees
which share this risk with the individual bank, so as to increase the bank's willingness to extend
pre-shipment financing to all new and expanding exporters holding firm orders. In Zimbabwe,
Credit Insurance of Zimbabwe (Credsure) provides select post-shipment cover for buyer and
political payment risks, or client insolvency, and does not issue exporter performance guarantees.
2.20         Successful exporters in other countries generally have had reliable access to
competitively-priced credit. An almost automatic pre- and post-shipment credit system that
works on the basis of confirmed orders and import letters of credit makes it much easier for local
firms to take advantage of foreign markets. While Zimbabwe already operates a very limited
export credit facility through Credsure, it has supported only three companies (see Annex C).
Moreover, the domestic currency cost of investment has been greatly increased by tight monetary
policy designed to contain inflation. A long-run solution must involve low inflation and modest
nominal as well as real interest rates. In the short-run, efforts such as those supported by this
project, are needed to increase the amount of financing to emerging exporters and make such
lending decisions more attractive to financial institutions.
E. Small and Medium Enterprises
2.21         Policy Framework.  Until the early 1990s, the policy enviromnent favored
existing enterprises, inhibiting entry and the broadening of participation. While measures
adopted since have removed many barriers, the benefits resulting from the ESAP are perceived to
flow disproportionately to the most privileged segments of the population. Yet the combination
of incentive reform and deregulation have created the opportunity both to increase the rate, and
alter the pattern of growth. It is crucial both to accelerate the rate of growth and broaden
participation in this growth -- broad-based growth will likely result in the greatest labor market
absorption.
2.22         Concentration and Participation. The level of concentration and structure of
ownership of industrial assets in Zimbabwe changed only slowly over the first decade after
independence, but the pace of this change appears to have increased over the last few years. An
important study by GEMINI3 found about 845,000 enterprises, a much larger number than
anticipated. Although the bulk of employment is accounted for under activities of "knitting and
crocheting", and "grass, cane and bamboo" categories, there is also a significant number of other
more sophisticated businesses. However, it is not yet clear what proportion of these activities are
merely for subsistence, and what proportion could form the basis for a dynamic small-and-
medium-scale enterprise sector.
2.23         The results of the RPED survey4 (Gunning (1994) indicated rising indigenous
black participation in formal manufacturing. Of the firms surveyed, 28% had African owners,
40% were white Zimbabwean-owned, and 11% had Asian owners. The ownership of the
3  See Michael McPherson, Micro and Small Scale Enterprises in Zimbabwe: Results of a Country Wide Survey, GEMINI
Technical Report 25, 1991.
4  See RPED, The Manufacturing Sector in Zimbabwe: First Report on the Round 1I RPED Survey Data., Free University of
Amsterdam and University of Zimbabwe, 1994.



- 10-
remaining 14% could not be ascertained and/or were firms owned by multinationals, the state
and cooperatives. Although the proportion of African ownership is low, there has been a
significant shift in terms of ownership structure since independence. While only 26% of white-
owned firms were started after 1980, almost 72% of the African-owned firms were started after
independence. Fifty-five percent of all firms started after 1989 were started by Africans.
However, most of the firms owned by Africans are still small compared to the firms owned by
Table 1: Racial National Origin by Firm Size5
Employment
Less $More
Row (%          than                         than      Row
Origin)          I0     11-100   101-250    251       Total     %
African            34        19         2         2      57    (33)
Asian               3        13         6         0      22    (13)
European            3        28        23       26       80    (46)
Other               0         3         6         5       14    (8)
Column Total   40(23)    63(36)    37(21)    33(19)      173  (100)
whites. Table 1 shows the racial origin of owners by firm size. Almost 60%  of African-owned
firms employ less than 10 workers, and only 7% employ more than 100 workers.
2.24           Until 1991, not only did the policy regime strongly favor existing enterprises, so
too were significant barriers to finance identified for SMEs. Given the level of collateral
requirements and limited financial innovation, many SMEs with "bankable" projects found credit
access difficult. This was in spite of a number of donor-supported programs, as well as Small
Business Units established in each commercial bank to support this market. These units have a
lending responsibility to small-sized firms, generally those below a maximum of 50 employees,
and will intermediate loans referred to them by other branches.
2.25           The linkages between small- and medium-sized expansion of exports indicated in
Section D above and increasing the participation of indigenous business are significant: (i)
spillovers would likely occur to the extent that manufactured exporters source their input
requirements from domestic suppliers, in particular from SMEs; (ii) domestic producers
(including SMEs) could likely become indirect exporters as they provide finished goods to
producers that, in turn, export such products; (iii) small service enterprises would become
important beneficiaries of the increase in business in support services for exporting companies;
(iv) the nature of export growth in Zimbabwe would likely be relatively labor-intensive; and (v)
in the longer-term, export expansion generally leads to technological learning and productivity
gains by a broad array of enterprises.
2.26           SME Financing Constraints.  There are four sources of loan financing for
SMEs6: (i) commercial banks have in the past provided limited financing to SMEs through their
Small Business Units established for this purpose. These institutions have the branch networks,
5   Figures in parenthesis indicate the percentage of row tables. Source: RPED Survey, 1994.
6   While SMEs are defined in many ways, for our purposes we mean enterprises with approximately 10 to 100 employees.
Microenterprises having less than 10 employees are not excluded from the project but are not a primary focus of the
project.



- 11 -
staff, and financial resources to work towards the objective of making more substantial amounts
of funds available to indigenous businesses; (ii) although many NGOs are more focused on
microenterprises than SMEs, they tend to work well at the grassroots level and to lhave the
flexibility to undertake the character-based assessments of the principals of small businesses; (iii)
non-bank financial intermediaries potentially serve as additional mechanisms for intermediating
funds to SMEs but have done little to date; and (iv) state-owned intermediaries, such as the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), the Zimbabwe Development Bank (ZDB), and the
Small Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO), have provided financing.
2.27         SMEs face two important financial constraints: (i) lack of access to finance or
credit (particularly for the most dynamic indigenous enterprises); and (ii) a high cost of finance,
notably due to high real interest rates (10-20% in real terms during 1995). Both can constrain
enterprise performance. Surveys consistently identify high real interest rates as among the three
most binding constraints for all segments of the non-agricultural private sector. Gauging the
extent to which lack of access to finance is a binding constraint is complicated by the fact that
some firms that report lack of access to finance to be a binding constraint may not be
creditworthy, and hence ought not to be advanced loan finance; and, given high real interest
rates, many of those potentially creditworthy firms that might experience problems gaining
access to finance, simply self-select by choosing not to borrow.
2.28         Various factors are believed to have contributed to the observed credit constraint
for investors, particularly SMEs. The dualist economic structure and limited interaction between
the banking community and the emerging SME sector have resulted in the perceived risks of
financing SMEs being considerably greater than the actual risks. This is supported by data in a
recent survey of black-owned businesses in Zimbabwe7. Information asymmetries are usually
worse for small enterprises, and likely impair the functioning of the financial markets and cause
the cost of borrowing to be pushed up. This cost manifests itself in higher interest rates
reflecting higher risks and transaction costs as well as, typically, a greater reliance by financial
institutions on physical collateral. It is in this setting that the above survey indicates that vital
role that State-owned financial institutions played in providing initial support to enterprises
which, because of the risk perceptions of private financial institutions indicated, would not have
otherwise had credit access. Indeed, of 47 enterprises sampled which had used loans, 36 had
received loans or guarantees from one or more parastatal or non-profit organizations, including
18 from SEDCO. Implicitly, this also suggests a certain technical assistance and appraisal
capability to support emerging SMEs. In this way, deliberate measures to reduce this financing
constraint had a demonstrated impact.
F. Business Support Services - Information Linkages and Market Intelligence
2.29         The nature of business associations in Zimbabwe has to date reflected the dualism
in the economic structure: Associations controlled by whites generally catered to large existing
industrial and agricultural concerns and have had little interaction with associations which
catered to blacks, which generally catered to smaller businesses and more subsistence-based
agriculture. The outreach between these two types of associations has been limited, with blacks
7   See Levy and Bradburg, Zimbabwe's New Entrepreneur: An Emerging Success Story?. The World Bank, October, 1995.



- 12 -
and whites grouped with their own associations. Moreover, many associations also have
histories which included an actively political, in addition to an economic mandate.
2.30        In Zimbabwe, not enough attention has been devoted to developing business skills
which respond to buyer preferences, innovation, production efficiency, quality control and
marketing. As a result of long years of domestic orientation and protection from external
markets, many Zimbabwean firms lack the required skills, know-how, and market understanding
which is essential for obtaining orders in new markets. The returns from improving the
information base and, accordingly, upgrading supply capabilities by addressing deficiencies, are
very large. Supply performance is critical in exporting manufactured products to developed
country markets and, for firms looking for export orders, what counts is the buyer's perception of
the exporting firm's supply capabilities and its readiness to fulfill all aspects of the order. In the
same vein, strong evidence suggests that SMEs can be strengthened by measures to create greater
information linkages for individual enterprises, and the project would seek to develop these
mechanisms as well.
2.31        Presently, several agencies in Zimbabwe attempt to provide such information and
assistance to exporters. ZimTrade, a trade promotion organization, has made a good start in
conducting market and supply surveys, encouraging group participation in foreign trade fairs,
providing training courses for new exporters, and developing newsletters, promotional brochures
and exporter directories. In addition, it has developed a trade and information center which
attempts to provide up-to-date information on international market trends and developments.
Several specialized databases are available on-line to potential exporters and are fully
computerized, allowing for speedy location of specific publications through a keyword search
system. Further, ZimTrade maintains a comprehensive library of up-to-date international trade
directories, market reports, country reports, customs regulations, product specific journals and
market studies. From a slow start, ZimTrade gets upwards of 300-400 visitors per month using
its database, in addition to numerous phone inquiries, and has recently opened an office in
Bulawayo. Besides ZimTrade, several other private sector organizations are emerging as sources
of information and specialized assistance such as the Horticultural Promotion Council, the
confederation of Zimbabwe industries, and the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce, in
addition to private service and financial firms. All of these perform a variety of export
promotion functions relating to advice, training and information. The further development of
such trade promotion functions needs to be supported and information dissemination encouraged.
2.32        Generally, firms need individualized help, geared to their specific market niche
opportunities, and most of this help needs to be provided from the viewpoint of a distant
potential buyer. Such help is therefore not easy to deliver. One mechanism to deal with this
problem successfully is the matching grant concept offered on a pilot basis in Zimbabwe by
ZimTrade, with support from the European Union (EU) through the Export Promotion Support
Services (EPSS) program. These grants cover up to half the cost of a firm's program to improve
and adapt its supply, market development, and potentially related export development operations.
Firms can use the grants to help pay for expert services and travel associated with market
exploration and initial marketing. Making the participating company pay 50% of the costs
involved ensures that the firm has a financial stake in getting value for money.



- 13-
2.33        Analysis of SMEs in developing countries suggests that a powerful learning
mechanism for emerging enterprises is learning from ongoing business activities. However,
evidence suggests that this mechanism works only to the extent that firms are embedded in
"information-rich" private networks. In Zimbabwe's dualistic setting, even potentially dynamic
small entrepreneurs may not have access to these networks, and hence, could find themselves
trapped (without necessarily being conscious of the root of their problem) in a low-level "poor-
but-efficient" setting. The challenge is to find ways of enhancing the access of indigenous and
other firms to information-rich networks, without creating white elephant public institutions.
While internationally the examples of success are, at best, limited, three approaches have been
incorporated into the Project to create information linkages needed (see paras. 4.5 to 4.8 below).
2.34        The current array of business support services available for SMEs is limited, and
those that are available are fragmented. Training is offered by a number of agencies or NGOs
including SEDCO, AFC, EMPRETEC and others.  Moreover, ZimTrade offers limited
introductory exposure for SMEs. The Government has also channeled considerable sums of
funds into the business services sector to assist retrenched civil servants.
3. FINANCIAL MARKETS AND THEIR REGULATION
3.1         Structure of the Financial Sector. Zimbabwe generally has a highly-developed
financial system compared to other countries in the region. Financial institutions that lend directly
to the public are comprised of five commercial banks (Barclays, Standard Chartered, Zimbank,
Stanbic and the Commercial Bank of Zimbabwe), five finance houses (Stanbic Finance, Fincor,
UDC, Standard Finance, and Scotfin), three building societies (Central African Building Society,
Founders Building Society and Beverly Building Society), two development finance institutions
(SEDCO and ZDB), and nine merchant banks. There is also a government-owned Credit
Guarantee Company (CGC-Second Tier) and the Post Office Savings Bank. The Reserve Bank of
Zimbabwe (RBZ) is the monetary and regulatory authority. The Government has a controlling
interest in Zimbank and its subsidiaries, Syfrets and Scotfin, in the Commercial Bank of
Zimbabwe, in ZDB and in SEDCO. In addition, the system comprises a stock exchange, over 50
insurance companies and a large number of pension funds.
3.2         Economic Regulation and Monetary Policy. Since 1992, economic regulations
on financial instruments have been almost entirely removed. The severity of high real deposit
and lending rates indicated in Table 2 below, reflects Government's contractionary monetary
policy both to reduce inflation and protect the balance of payments, in the face of continuing and
accumulated fiscal deficits. The real average lending rate of 11.8% indicated makes the debt-
service requirements for sub-loan financing particularly difficult for commercial customers.
Such rates are projected to be reduced in the medium-term, but such a reduction will depend on
achieving an improved fiscal position and a market response to Government policies. Spreads
are also very high, given Zimbabwe's required reserve and liquidity requirements, averaging
almost 8% for commercial banks. Strong financial margins and returns on capital invested in the
financial sector suggest that Zimbabwe could be attractive to new entrants. This is validated by
the recent entrance of one commercial bank (purchasing an existing bank) and the establishment
of four merchant banks in the last two years.



- 14 -
Table 2: Interest Rates and Spreads (in percent)
Nominal
Deposit Rates 2/        Real Deposit Rates 3/     Lending Rates 5/ Real Lending Rates 6/      Sprads
Comm       Accept.   Comm       Accept.  Inflation  Comm   Accept.  Comm    Accept.  Comm  Accept.
T-Bills I/   Banks     Houses                             4/     Banks   Houses  Banks   Houses   Banks  House
Dec 19927/          34.6         31.0      36.0       11.5       15.8               36.9    34.2       16.5      14.2    5.9    (1.8)
March 1993          38.0         33.0      36.0       15.2       17.8      17.5    38.2      37.0      19.6      18.7    5.2       1.0
June 1993           38.5         33.5      39.5        2.8        7.4      15.5    38.5      36.0       6.6       4.7    5.0    (3.5)
Sept 993            28.2         24.3      27.3       10.5       13.2      29.9     36.6     35.1     21.5       20.2   12.4       7.9
Dec 5993            27.0         24.0      26.3    (10.2)       (8.6)      12.4    33.3      33.7    (3.5)      (3.2)    9.3       7.5
March 1994          26.9         25.5      26.6        8.4        9.4      38.1     33.5     33.1      15.3      15.0    8.0       6.5
June 1994           28.6         29.0      30.5        3.7        4.9      15.8    34.3      35.5       7.9       8.9    5.3       5.0
Sept 1994           31.5         29.0      29.4       19.9       20.2      24.4     34.8     36.8     25.2       27.1     5.8      7.4
Dec 1994            29.6         27.3      28.5      (5.5)      (4.6)       7.6    36.4      35.8       1.3       0.8    9.1       7.3
March 1995          30.4         28.5      30.0       17.7       19.0      34.7    35.2      36.5     23.8       25.0    6.7       6.5
June 1995           27.5         26.5      26.5      (4.2)      (4.2)       9.2     36.2     36.5       3.2       3.4    9.7      10.0
Sept 1995           23.9         23.0      22.0      (5.4)      (6.2)      32.0    35.7      36.5      4.4        5.0   12.7      14.5
Dec. 1995                                                                  30.0
Simple Avg.        30.4         27.9      29.9        5.4        7.0      21.6     35.8     35.6      11.8      11.6    7.9       5.7
1/ 90-Day Treasury Bills.
2/ 3-month deposit rates. Figures represent the midpoint of the endpoint ranges published.
3/ [Average Deposit Rate-Annualized Inflation Rate for subsequent quarter]/[l+lnflation Rate].
4/ Consumer Price Index change for the previous three months multiplied by four.
5/ Average Lending Rates. Figures represent the midpoint of the endpoint ranges published.
6/ [Average Lending Rate-Annualized Inflation Rate for subsequent quarterl/[ I +Inflation Rate].
7/ Rate for Treasury Bills is January 1993.
Source: RBZ Monthly Bulletin.
3.3                  Savings and Financial Depth. Broad Money (M2) was 26.7% of GDP in 1993
and is projected to increase to between 28.2% and 29.5% from 1995 to 1997. Total commercial
bank loans and advances were about US$ 1.1 billion at end-June, 1995, while loans, advances and
acceptances of merchant banks was about US$400 million. The level of financial depth can be
considered only moderate, given Zimbabwe's income level and distribution. The bulk of formal
savings in financial institutions (not including pension funds or insurance companies) is in
commercial banks, which held 80% of such savings at end-July, 1995. Merchant banks held
15% and discount houses just over five percent. Approximately 11% of savings was held in
Foreign Currency Accounts (FCAs). Savings is also skewed towards demand deposits (48% of
total deposits) with savings deposits under thirty days comprising 40% and time deposits over 30
days comprising 12% of deposits. The large volume of demand deposits is in part accentuated to
the degree that such deposits are used against overdraft accounts for corporate customers.
3.4                 Ownership  and  Competition.   Historically, financial institutions have  largely
reflected the duality of ownership observed in the real sector: Most institutions catered to
existing companies and agricultural interests (for domestic market and financing exports),
primarily owned by whites, while State-owned institutions attempted to finance indigenous
emerging enterprises and farmers. Economic regulations contributed to conservative lending
policies in that: (i) repressed lending rates contributed to lending to known or affiliated
customers; and (ii) former entry barriers contributed to limited competition assuring a reasonable
profit with little risk-taking. In 1988, with the encouragement of the RBZ, commercial banks set
up Small Business Units, (SBUs) whose aim was to cater to nascent indigenous enterprises.
These Units functioned in a very limited way until about 1994, when the effects of domestic



- 15 -
market liberalization increased some of the interest of commercial banks in pursuing the SME
market.
3.5            Prudential Regulation and Supervision. Zimbabwe's formal financial sector is
regulated by the RBZ, which is responsible for monetary and foreign exchange policy. The
Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act of 1964, and the Banking Act of 1968, give the RBZ broad
powers to regulate commercial banks, discount houses, and merchant banks and finance houses,
as well as empowering the RBZ to carry out its central banking functions8. These functions
include responsibility over the money supply, issuing currency, providing clearing house facilities,
administering Government loans and securities, and acting as custodian of the country's foreign
exchange reserves and managing the country's gold output. RBZ's financial dealings with other
intermediaries is through discount houses that trade in bankers' acceptances, negotiable
certificates of deposit (NCDs), and government treasuries and municipal notes in the secondary
market. In general, RBZ has influenced the banking system to control the money supply, but has
had very limited powers to supervise and control prudential regulations.
3.6            Under current law, RBZ has the authority to issue statutory prudential regulations
for banking institutions, but has no authority to carry out on-site inspection, and limited authority
to require information for surveillance purposes9. The main statutory requirements for the
banking system cover minimum capital and reserves and minimum reserve and liquidity
balances. Operational guidelines include gearing ratios, overall risk asset ratios, maximum
exposure in any one customer or related group of customers, and monitoring of foreign exchange
dealings by the banking system. At end-October, 1995, guidelines were also established for
capital adequacy and loan classification and provisioning, albeit the legal authority of such
guidelines is limited to moral suasion.
3.7            A draft revised Banking Act before Parliament would amend current legislation
governing deposit-taking institutions and the financial services industry. As such, the regulatory
authority of the RBZ Banking Supervision Department would increase significantly, including
the legal authority for on-site supervision. Moreover, the coverage of its authority would be
widened to include finance houses and building societies.  Further, capital requirements,
including risk-related capital adequacy ratios and other prudential legislation for all financial
institutions, would be statutorily required to be met. Finally, segmentation of the banking system
under current law would be eliminated. The legislation would also lay the foundation for the
emergence of new money-market instruments and financial services. The implications of such
legislation would be that the RBZ Banking Supervision Department would have to be
strengthened considerably (see para 4.22).
3.8            Financial Market Development and  Outreach  to Emerging  Enterprises.
Zimbabwe's financial markets are in a transition. Although relatively complex, sophisticated and
8   Currently. the Post Office Savings Bank is regulated by the Post Office Savings Bank Act (Chapter 249) and falls under
the joint trusteeship of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Governor of the Reserve Bank and the Postmaster General. The
Building Societies are regulated by the Buildings Societies Act. Other institutions, including insurance companies, pension
funds, etc., are subject to their individual legislation and governed by independent boards.
9   It is in light of these legal limitations that the Project includes the application of specific eligibility criteria for the
participation of financial intermediaries under the Project.



- 16-
diverse by regional standards, the outreach to lending to emerging enterprises both for local and
export markets has been limited. Conservative lending policies have to date focused on the
maintenance of collateral, often through fixed assets (land) or movable assets. Little lending has
to date been done purely on a cashflow basis, except for large and well-established exporters.
Given that the level of perceived risks of emerging enterprises is believed to be greater than their
actual risk, it is expected that, once financial institutions develop greater experience with cash-
flow lending and improve their appraisal capability and information networks, then more lending
will go to the to-date disenfranchised groups. Although the experience of most financial
institutions in project appraisal of SMEs is limited, this capacity is believed to be sufficient to
effectively draw upon, channel,-and benefit from financing and guarantee mechanisms set up to
support emerging enterprises under the Project. The same is even more the case in terms of
export financing, where the expertise is there, albeit the willingness to provide cashflow-based
export financing has been limited. Most important, if the reforms indicated above are developed,
namely, improvement in prudential regulations so as to permit an orderly entrance of more
competition, and an improved macro program so as to reduce interest rates on a sustainable
basis, it is then e-xpected that, in the medium-term, the financial markets will have adjusted in
such a way as to finance emerging enterprises on their own accord.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Relation with Country Assistance Strategy
4.1         This project stems from discussions held in October and November 1994, in
which the Government and IDA agreed to develop an integrated enterprise support program
including credit, business services and institutional development.  A process of Annual
Consultations was also established in January 1995, whereby Bank staff and Government
officials discuss the assistance program, in an effort to strengthen early collaboration, and avoid
investing a lot of resources in preparing operations before Government commitment is
established. These meetings, a Borrower feedback survey in mid-1995 and consultations with
stakeholder groups (civil society, NGOs, academics, private sector, labor and government) in
February 1996, have also been an integral part of the preparation of a Country Assistance
Strategy.
4.2         The last Country Assistance Strategy for Zimbabwe was discussed with the
Board in January 1994. A key element of that strategy was to support the Government's efforts
to promote private sector investment and exports as the engine for employment generation and
growth. Instruments for providing support were to include additional adjustment lending, a
country economic memorandum, a trade expansion study and a small and microenterprise
development (SMSE) project.  The next adjustment operation has been deferred pending
fulfillment of remaining measures for release of the second tranche of the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (FY93), the studies have been completed and the SMSE Project has evolved
into this project, the Enterprise Development Project. A new Country Assistance Strategy had
been planned for consideration by the Board with this Project. However, intervening events,
including the recent presidential elections, argued for deferring presentation of a new strategy
pending Government's elaboration of the next phase of its adjustment program (ESAP 2) and
further discussions on the Bank's role in supporting the program. The ongoing strategy



- 17-
continues to include private sector and export development, particularly among indigenous
enterprises, as key to the overall objective of broad based growth. Apart from the proposed
project, other relevant interventions would cover agriculture, focusing inter alia on rebuilding
services for the smallholder and small-scale irrigation. Other prongs of the strategy include
continued support for macroeconomic reform and stability; human resource development,
particularly health which is threatened by fiscal constraints and AIDS/HIV; infrastructure
development, as the backbone for private sector development and development in the rural areas;
environment and resource management, including particularly water resources; and capacity
building, particularly at the local government level.
B. Lessons Learned From Past Experience
4.3           The project aims to draw  on the results of financial intermediary projects,
including the recently completed Small Scale Enterprise Project in Zimbabwe, which have often
had limited results because: (i) subsidy mechanisms or sector targeting often did not have a
desired sustainable real sector impact; and (ii) reliance on a limited scope of financial
intermediaries did not result in the breadth or depth of financial intermediation needed,
particularly for reaching emerging enterprises, because of lending conservatism and information
asymmetries. Specific lessons for the Zimbabwe project were: (i) micro-level support of SMEs
cannot lead to a sustainable result unless the macro, policy and institutional barriers to SME
development are also addressed. These constraints put a brake on SME development in the
1980s; (ii) using a unique financial intermediary such as SEDCO can help to develop the
expertise of SME lending, but it does not result in the establishment of such an expertise in the
broader commercial marketplace on a sustainable basis; (iii) access to credit by financial
intermediaries requires continuing compliance with explicit eligibility criteria; and (iv) lending
rates both to and from intermediaries should be comparable to market rates and positive in real
terms to avoid financial and real market distortions. Further, the project aims to draw upon
specific lessons in the provision of business services, namely that: (i) to the degree possible,
lending and technical assistance to borrowers should be separated functions; (ii) provision of
information and management services should be specialized and tailored to the firm or
association's needs -- generalized training should be avoided; and (iii) foreign and domestic
businesses themselves can serve as important catalysts for other firms embarking on export or
other business expansion. Finally, the project aims to build upon the lessons of institutional
development as it relates to improving customs administration and financial institution
management of credit operations. This project aims to achieve success where the earlier project
had more limited results by: (i) providing financing and business services to enterprises, in this
case after most of the identified policy barriers have been removed; (ii) intermediating funds
through multiple institutions certified as financially viable by external auditors; and (iii)
supporting an integrated series of measures which encompass financing, guarantees, business
services and institution-building.
C. Project Objectives
4.4           The objective of this project is to support a stronger supply response by private
sector enterprises to policy reforms undertaken, including: (i) increasing the growth of export-
based output; and (ii) broadening participation in economic activity, in particular by indigenous
firms.



- 18 -
D. Project Description'
1. The Business Services Component
4.5          Given the duality described above in the existing structure of business
associations and the identified collective benefits to improving information linkages, the Project
supports a Business Services Component consisting of: (i) a Subsector Business Associations
Initiative (SBAI) providing matching grants to business associations to support their efforts to
strengthen their array of services for firms, including creation of company alliances; (ii) support of
an enhancement of an existing ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme for individual enterprises
entering or expanding into export markets; and (iii) support of the initial costs of creating linkages
between established and emerging enterprises through a Matchmaking Facility. A more detailed
description is indicated below and in Annex A.
4.6          Support to Subsector Business Associations- SBAI (Project Cost US$3.1
million, of which IDA would finance US$1.4 million). The SBAI would provide financing to
"kickstart" the emergence of service-oriented Zimbabwean subsector business associations --
groupings of firms engaged in similar activities, typically manufacturing or services. The
program would be managed by an SBAI Administrator supported under the project and would
support subsector associations in the preparation of technical and marketing programs which aim
to improve the competitiveness and productivity of firms through: (i) direct provision of
development support to associations through "handholding" in designing a business plan. This
support is aimed at those associations that do not yet have the capability to design focused
strengthening programs themselves; (ii) provision of 50:50 matching grants providing
development support for 12 months to cover the costs of a subsector association staff person
specialized in the concerns of the relevant subsector. This person could be full- or part-time, and
could be shared with one other subsector association; and (iii) the provision of program
matching funds, on a cost sharing basis (25% paid by participating firms, and 75% covered by
the project) for eligible programs mounted by the associations (see Annex A for guidelines for
these programs). Both the development support and program matching grants are intended as
catalysts -- demonstrations to firms in the relevant subsectors, and to the private sector more
broadly, of the benefits of strong, productivity-oriented subsector associations. In cases where,
for reasons of Zimbabwe's history, there exists more than one association for a particular
activity, the component will endeavor to foster collaboration among these associations. The
expectation is that, having once experienced the benefits to be derived from such associations,
firms will then be willing to continue to participate in them, unsupported by SBAI grants.
Consequently, the scheme is designed to be temporary, to operate only for a single, three-year
period.
4.7          Support to Improving International Competitiveness (Project Cost US$7.3
million of which IDA would finance US$3.8 million). The ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme
(ZMGS) would provide support to enterprises seeking to expand their international
competitiveness. Matching grants would be supported under the Project on a 50:50 cost-sharing
basis (with private firms) to stimulate the use of foreign and domestic support services and travel
10  A diagram attached as Annex D provides a useful picture of the project functions, responsibilities and funds flow.



- 19-
by firms so as to speed up a firm-level response. Support services quickly introduce into firms
the skills, know-how, information and contacts that will be needed, in order either to defend
against import competition, or to expand exports. Travel by key personnel helps to build realism
about how best the firm can find its niche in an international marketplace, establishing contacts
both with export outlets and with sources of imported inputs that could help build
competitiveness. Cost-sharing grants would be provided on the basis of a plan prepared by the
firm (see Annex A for complete guidelines). The ZMGS would also support the process of
restructuring by working in a "hands-on" way with firms to prepare firm-level plans, aimed at
enhancing competitiveness (involving support services and travel to be supported by the ZMGS).
The scheme would seek to add to, strengthen, and build upon a foundation of the current Export
Promotion Support Service (EPSS) offered by ZimTrade. The scheme represents a reformulation
of the existing scheme, as well as an upgrading and extension of the program. The scheme
would be managed by the ZMGS Management Team who will have the global knowledge and
private sector experience that can help fill the gaps in firms' knowledge, assisting in proactively
promoting the scheme to owners and senior managers of private firms, concentrating on those
assessed as having the highest potential for building international competitiveness. Approval of
ZMGS matching grants will be made by the ZMGS Management Team, a Technical Adviser and,
depending upon the size of the grant, in some cases by the Steering Team of the Project. It is
expected that about 80% of grant support will go towards technical and productivity adjustments
within the factory and about 20% will directly support efforts at marketing. The cost-sharing and
proactive, hands-on initiatives are intended as catalysts -- demonstrations to participating firms,
and, more broadly, to the private sector -- of the benefits of actively seeking out external sources
of information and know-how.
4.8         Export Catalysts through Matchmaking (Project Cost US$3.1 million, of which
IDA would finance US$1.8 million). The Matchmaking Facility aims to build Zimbabwean
firms' export capability by facilitating export-oriented enterprise collaboration between small and
medium local and foreign partners through a private matchmaking scheme. Foreign partners
would bring a package of external market access and production know-how with or without
investment finance. The facility would provide matching grant support as one effective way to
deal with local potential exporters' lack of: (i) access to the external market network and market
information for export products; (ii) access to exportable production know-how; and (iii) access
to external information on input sourcing to promote export-oriented foreign enterprise
collaboration in diversified forms. The collaborations supported through this facility provide a
package of (i) - (iii), offer an opportunity for local partners' immediate entry into the world
market, and offer an opportunity for the acquisition of skills in these areas. Under the facility, a
private matchmaker would identify potential foreign collaborators, brokering information on
business opportunities in the recipient country, and use their information network in the latter
country to link foreign collaborators with potential local partners. The fee provided to the
matchmaker would be based on the culmination of a collaboration contract which is
performance-based. Matchmaking fee payments would be shared between: (i) the Matchmaking
Fund (MMF) established under the Project (50% of the initial installment); (ii) the foreign
partner (25% of the initial installment); and (iii) the local exporter (25% of the initial
installment). Installments would be based on the contract value and implementation stages (see
Annex A for Guidelines). Funding would also be provided to support the costs of establishing an



- 20 -
initial contact between the matchmaker, foreign collaborator and local partner. The facility
would be managed by a Matchmaking Management Contractor, with input and support from a
Technical Adviser.
2. The Finance Component
4.9         The Finance Component supports permanent working capital and investment
financing for SMEs, US$ export financing for direct or indirect exporters, and SME and
Preshipment Export Finance guarantee funds established (and backstopped) under the project as
indicated below. Funds under this component would be intermediated by Participating Financial
Intermediaries (PFIs), who would be certified as eligible for participation by the Project Steering
leam, upon the recommendation and on the basis of information presented by independent
external auditors commissioned for this purpose (see Annex B for the criteria and evaluation
procedures). Funds would be intermediated through an Apex Unit in the RBZ (See para. 4.34
below) and the Guarantee Funds would operate in a Credit Guarantee Agency (CGA), also in the
RBZ.
4.10        SME Finance Facility - Fund (Project Cost US$31.1 million of which IDA
would finance US$25 million). Uncertainty and the term structure of interest rates has led to
limited and prohibitively-priced medium-term funds for financial institutions to fumd the
investment and permanent working capital needs of their SME customers. The SME Finance
Fund seeks to provide an intervention to relax the constraint for term funding by financial
institutions for SMEs. The aim is that by providing financing to SMEs capable of sustainable
growth, these enterprises can grow and generate employment on a sustainable basis. Eligible
borrowers would include companies with up to 50 employees and with up to US$200,000 in
assets (exclusive of land), with sub-loans up to a limit of US$75,000 (see Annex B for more
detailed guidelines). The Project Steering Team (see para. 4.31) could, in consultation with IDA,
modify this limit according to implementation experience. Funds would be offered to SMEs by
participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) in Zim$ at a maturity of up to five years, and with up
to 18 months' grace period. PFIs would be required to onlend to SMEs funds in the same
currency and with the same maturity and grace period as received from the Apex. At least 20%
of the subproject cost would need to be met by sub-borrowers. The interest rate charged by the
Apex to financial intermediaries would be the average cost of funds of commercial banks, as
determined by a quarterly rolling average, computed by the RBZ and announced quarterly. The
rate charged SMEs by PFIs would be freely determined by PFIs in accordance with the costs and
risks involved. Sub-project documentation submitted to the Apex would be limited to summary
information.
4.11        Central to the demand estimates for the SME Finance Fund is the assumption that
the process being supported entails marginal financing which would otherwise not be
undertaken. The "financing gap" is virtually impossible to determine for SMEs in this context
because of the dynamic nature of changes in demand, and in the supply response due to the
process being supported. Under the assumption that the average SME credit would be
US$50,000 equivalent, the sub-component would finance approximately 500 new SME
borrowers over a four-year period. This would represent an increase of approximately 2.2% from
the US$1.1 billion of loans and advances of commercial banks (end-July 1995). Although the
exact size of commercial banks' SME portfolios is not known, if estimates are valid that SME



- 21 -
exposure is only five percent of total portfolios, new SME sub-loans under the project would
represent a significant increase. If the process is sufficiently dynamic, the hope is that there will
be a supply response in the sense that financial institutions will divert an increasing share of their
own-sourced funds to finance this market.
4.12         SME Credit Guarantee Facility - Fund (Cost US$5.6 million"l financed by the
Government and private sector). The Project will support an SME Credit Guarantee in order to
encourage financial institutions to lend to entrepreneurs with viable projects and good prospects
of success, but whose perceived risk is greater than their actual risk because the borrowers are
unable to provide adequate collateral, or do not have a suitable credit history to prove that they
are creditworthy. Eligible SME sub-loans financed by the SME Finance Fund could be
guaranteed for 50% of the outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest up to 90 days,
provided a PFI's losses for guaranteed loans have not exceeded 15% of its guaranteed sub-loan
total. New loans made once this threshold has been reached (but losses less than 40%) could be
guaranteed at a rate of 25%. No additional loans would be guaranteed if a PFI's loss rate on
guaranteed loans exceeds 40%. Each PFI would pay the Apex a three percent premium on the
guaranteed portion of its portfolio--a premium that could be passed along to PFI borrowers.
4.13         Both the SME Credit Guarantee and the Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee
(below) would be administered by a Credit Guarantee Agency (CGA) located in the RBZ and
actively interacting with the Apex. The CGA would be responsible for processing guarantee
applications, verifying borrower compliance with eligibility conditions, verifying eligibility of
PFIs, processing receipt of premiums, scrutinizing requests for claims under the guarantee, and
processing reimbursement under such claims. The CGA would issue a Guarantee Certificate to
the PFI for guaranteed sub-loans. The scheme's design is intended to be simple enough so that
participation does not add materially to a PFI's transaction costs. The aim of this mechanism is
to be temporary until such time as financial institutions are better able to assess, price and
manage risk when no special incentive would be needed.
4.14         The SME Credit Guarantee Fund (and Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee
Fund below) would be funded by: (i) premiums collected by the Apex from PFIs deposited into
an interest-bearing deposit account; (ii) interest from such account; (iii) any funds recovered in
the disposal of collateral on guaranteed-loans; and, as necessary; (iv) sub-loan recoveries from
the SME and Export Finance funds transferred from the SME Finance Fund to the SME Credit
Guarantee Fund"2. Once a sub-loan is confirmed by the CGA as being entitled to reimbursement
under a claim, the Apex would debit the Guarantee Fund account and credit the PFI's project
account for the compensated balance. This would effectively exonerate the PFI from repayment
to the RBZ for 50% (or less) of the outstanding balance of the defaulting sub-loan.
4.15         Export Finance Facility - Fund (Project Cost US$43.8 million of which IDA
wouldfinance US$35 million). This fund would support pre- and post-shipment export financing
(generally imported inputs and local content which go into exported products) for emerging
exporters unable to access such financing from commercial sources. Under existing financing
I I The actual cost will depend on the level of defaults of SME loans (note the financing mechanism below).
12  Projections for the SME Credit Guarantee Fund are indicated in Annex B.



- 22 -
arrangements for commercial and merchant banks in Zimbabwe, overseas funding sources have
often stipulated that foreign currency funds should be used by local institutions only for well-
established exporters. This has had the effect of limiting the financing for emerging exporters,
for whom the Export Finance Fund seeks to relax this foreign currency funding constraint.
Eligible borrowers would include companies with up to 100 employees and with up to
US$500,000 in assets (exclusive of land). Sub-loans would be financed up to a size limit of
US$150,000 (see Annex B for more detailed guidelines). The Project Steering Team (See para.
4.31) could, in consultation with IDA, modify this limit according to implementation experience.
Funds would be offered to exporters by PFIs in US$ at a maturity from the time of drawdown to
the time of the sight export L/C negotiation (or post-shipment export bill discount), but not more
than six months (pre-shipment) or 120 days (post-shipment). Borrowers would be required to
have a confirmed export letter of credit from a top-quality bank, export credit insurance, or, in
the case of indirect exporters, a domestic back-to-back L/C. Post-shipment financing would be
provided by rolling over the pre-shipment maturity into the post-shipment phase. PFIs would be
required to onlend funds in the same currency and with the same maturity as received from the
Apex. At least 20% of the subproject cost would need to be met by the sub-borrowers. The
interest rate charged by the Apex to financial intermediaries would be the average cost of US$
funding of commercial and merchant banks from overseas sources, as determined by a quarterly
rolling average, computed by the RBZ and announced quarterly.  Currently, the ceiling
established by the RBZ for offshore credit lines for export loans is LIBOR + 0.875%, which
would be the initial rate charged on funds of the line, subject to change by the Steering Team in
accordance with changes in RBZ regulations and market conditions. The rate charged exporters
by PFIs would be freely determined by PFIs in accordance with the costs and risks involved.
The aim of subproject documentation would be to summarize the financed transaction to submit
to the Apex.
4.16        Demand estimates for the Export Finance Fund are difficult to determine for
emerging exporters because of the dynamic nature of changes in demand and in the supply
response due to the changing process being supported. The amount of the Export Finance Fund
(US$35 million) is based on the following analysis: Total outstanding pre- and post-shipment
non-tobacco export loans based on offshore credit lines of commercial and merchant banks at the
middle of June, 1995 were approximately US$250 million (US$167 million under memorandum
of deposit agreements'3 with the RBZ and the remaining US$83 million for general exports and
export-related imports without the agreement). It is estimated that these export loans based on
offshore credit lines have been granted mainly to 300 to 400 well-established companies in the
non-tobacco primary and manufacturing sectors. This amount supplies approximately 1/3 to 1/2
of the total non-tobacco (also excluding cotton and gold) export finance needs. The remaining
export finance needs (1/2 to 2/3 of the total - US$250-500 million) must be met by either Zim$
loans with high rates or self-financed for the remaining exporters (estimated to be more than
1,000). Such financing is very difficult for emerging exporters, even when they have confirmed
export letters of credit. Project funds can fill a portion of this "financing gap". Under the
assumption that the average Export Finance credit would be US$100,000, the sub-component
would finance approximately 350 new exporters over a four-year period. This would represent
an increase of approximately 2.3% in loans from the US$1.5 billion of loans, advances and
acceptances of commercial and merchant banks (end-July 1995). Alternatively, this would
13  This is a program whereby the RBZ pools the risk of offshore credit lines with local banks then restricts the maximum rate.



- 23 -
represent between 7% and 14% of the total amount of export finance estimated to be currently
self-financed or financed by domestic currency loans. While this amount represents a small
increase in these institutions' overall exposure, given the limited volume of exports from firms in
Zimbabwe with under 100 employees, it will represent a significant inroad into this nascent
market.
4.17        An Export Finance Guarantee Facility - Fund (estimated Cost US$7.5 million
financed by the Government and private sector). The project would support a Preshipment
Export Finance Guarantee Facility whose purpose is to encourage financial institutions, through
risk reduction, to lend to emerging exporters holding confirmed overseas export letters of credit
or specified buyers' non-payment risk insurance for confirmed orders. Such export projects
financed likely show good prospects of success (as evidenced by the export L/C), but the PFI is
reticent to extend funding because of limited collateral or credit history. The Export Credit
Guarantee Fund would operate in a similar way for export finance as for SMEs as indicated in
paras. 4.12 to 4.14 above. Eligible sub-loans financed by the Export Finance Fund could be
guaranteed for 80% of the outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest up to 90 days,
provided a PFI's losses for guaranteed loans have not exceeded 15% of its guaranteed sub-loan
total. New loans made once this threshold has been reached (but losses less than 40%) could be
guaranteed with a coverage of 25%. No additional loans would be guaranteed if a PFI's loss rate
on guaranteed loans exceeds 40%. The PFI would pay the Apex a 0.15% premium on the
outstanding monthly balance guaranteed. This premium could be passed along to PFI borrowers.
The CGA would review select exporter data so as to mitigate the risk of fraudulent abuse and
review the eligibility of the PFI for such guarantee coverage. The CGA would issue a Guarantee
Certificate to the PFI for guaranteed sub-loans. The Export Credit Guarantee Fund would bear
the contingent risks owing to default from exporters' non-performance.
4.18        The Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee Fund would be financed from
premiums, interest earned, and transfers from the Export Finance Guarantee Fund in a way
similar to that described for SMEs in para. 4.14 above. PFIs would effectively be exonerated
from repayment to the RBZ for 80% (or less) of the outstanding balance of defaulting sub-loans
entitled to compensation by the guarantee.
3. Institutional Development Component
4.19        As indicated in Annex C, an Institutional Development Component (Project Cost
US$2.2 million of which IDA would finance US$1.4 million) would provide support for the
strengthening of institutions key to improving enterprise development and export
competitiveness. This would include: (i) support for financial intermediaries in strengthening
their small business appraisal and monitoring systems and capacity; (ii) support of SEDCO in
sharpening its financial administration and strategic focus; (iii) support of the RBZ to improve
financial institution regulation; (iv) select support of the RBZ in its Apex Unit and credit
guarantee functions pertaining to this Project; (v) support of the Customs and Excise Department
in its automation and administration of duty-drawback and inward processing rebate provisions;
(vi) support to the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) Authority in the development of implementing
guidelines for the EPZ provisions; and (vii) support for the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
in its administration of economic policy. This component would also support the operation of
the Administrative Secretariat, with Government financing and co-financing.



- 24 -
4.20        Matching Grant Program for Financial Institutions. A Financial Institution
Matching Grant Program (Project Cost US$840,000 of which IDA would finance US$420. 000)
would be established to assist financial institutions in developing the capacity and systems
necessary for SME loan initiation, appraisal and monitoring. This scheme aims to mitigate some
of the costs incurred by financial intermediaries in undertaking or enhancing this new line of
activity. PFIs would have access to grant funds on a 50:50 basis to partially defray these additional
market entry costs in order to accelerate their movement in this area. The total expected IDA
support of US$420,000 would represent 14 matching grants of an average of US$30,000 over a
three-year period. Matching grants would be targeted at supporting the Small Business Units of
commercial banks. In order to receive such a grant, the financial institution must submit a
development program which should indicate precisely the type of expert advice or training
proposed. This could include the number of activities (workshops, on the job training, site visits,
courses attended) to be concluded, number of staff trained per activity, level of staff trained, type
of training conducted, sources of trainers, estimated cost per training event, estimated cost per
staff training event, and expected results. Matching grants could also be applied towards the
development of internal systems and controls of SME lending activity, such as the development
of a separate cost account and loan portfolio monitoring system for the Small Business Unit or
SME portfolio. It is likely that institutional development needs will be concentrated in the
following areas: (i) internal staff training; (ii) twinning/partnering with "best practice" financial
intermediaries abroad; (iii) specialized consultancies; and (iv) management information systems for
small business lending. The program would be managed by the Project Administrative Secretariat
(see Annex E), with support of a Technical Adviser and in consultation with IDA. Matching grant
approval should be by the Steering Team, at the recommendation of the Administrative
Secretariat. The submission to IDA of guidelines satisfactory to IDA for the matching grant
program would be a condition of disbursement of funds for this subcomponent.
4.21        Support of SEDCO in Strengthening its Financial Administration and Strategic
Focus (Project Cost US$1 70,000 financed by IDA). The Project would provide support for
SEDCO to strengthen its financial administration and strategic focus:  Select specialized
consultants would be supported under the Project, including a Financial Institution Management
Consultant, a Financial Specialist, and a Legal Specialist. Funding for computer upgrading
would also be provided. Key to-the effective use of funds under this subcomponent will be the
preparation by SEDCO management of a revised strategic plan, indicating the intended direction
for the institution and the means of achieving institutional strengthening. Submission of such a
plan, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of support under this subcomponent.
4.22        Support of the RBZ to Improve Financial Institution Regulation and
Supervision (Project Cost US$200,000financed by IDA). The project would provide support to
the institutional strengthening of the RBZ in its expanded role of regulation and supervision of
financial institutions, by financing external consultants in providing hands-on guidance and
training in on-site inspection procedures and practices, off-site analysis, and in the development
of implementing regulations and circulars to complement the revised Banking Act.
4.23        Support of the RBZ in the Project Apex Unit and Credit Guarantee Functions
(Project Cost US$70,000 financed by IDA). The project would support the RBZ in developing
an Apex Unit and Credit Guarantee Agency (CGA) including the provision of consultant



- 25 -
guidance in developing operations manuals for each unit, installing operating procedures for each
task, and training RBZ staff to carry out the Apex and CGA guarantee functions.
4.24        Strengthening Export Competitiveness - Support to Customs and Excise
(Project Cost US$300, 000 financed by IDA). The project would support measures by the
Customs and Excise Department to strengthen export competitiveness. Funds would be provided
to increase the efficiency of customs collection and, in particular, strengthen measures which
reduce anti-export biases against exporters, especially small export producers and indirect
exporters. The project would provide expert advice and computers to the Customs and Excise
Department in developing a modernized system of Input-Output Coefficient administration, in
the implementation of a Licensed Common Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme, and in
measures to improve the Inward Processing Rebate (IPR) and Duty Drawback provisions.
4.25        Support to the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) Authority (Project Cost
US$90, 000 financed by IDA). The project would support the recently-constituted EPZ Authority
and related Government agencies supporting the efficient regulation of export processing zones.
Support would be provided for the development of EPZ Customs Regime implementation
regulations and a study tour by Customs, Ministry of Finance and EPZ Authority staff to review
best practice EPZs in developing the implementation framework.
4.26        Support to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (Project Cost US$S100, 000
financed by IDA). The project would support the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in
improving its management of economic policy, and, in particular, in the coordination of bilateral
and multilateral initiatives. The aim of this support would be to provide training and computer
support to MOIC staff in fulfilling its new mandate. This support will prove vital, given the
increasingly active role the Ministry has taken on in the last two years in economic planning, and
in its role vis-ai-vis multilateral institutions. The project would provide funding for a series of
focused training sessions for MOIC staff on financial management, procurement and strategic
planning.
4.27        Support to Project Implementation Support (Project Cost US$460,000 financed
by the Government and cofinancing). The project would support the constitution and operation
of the Administrative Secretariat as well as the provision of a Technical Adviser who would
provide guidance in the management of the Institutional Development subcomponents, as well as
provide similar guidance in the operation of the ZMGS and MM Initiative (see Annexes B and
E).
E. Project Cost and Financing Plan
4.28        The proposed IDA credit of US$70 million equivalent would finance about 66%
of the total project cost. The cost estimates are based on the figures provided in Section D above
and in Annexes A-C. A contingency of US$1.3 million has been established in order to
accommodate unexpected total project costs for the Business Services and Institutional
Development components. This amount represents 7.9% of the cost for these components and
includes contingencies for both IDA and non-IDA funded portions.



- 26 -
4.29         As indicated in Table 3 below, private firms are expected to contribute US$18.1
million to SME and Export Finance sub-loans and as guarantee premiums. The Government
would backstop the sub-loan guarantees (US$10 million equivalent, depending upon the loss
record) and identify staff to manage the Administrative Secretariat. Operating costs would also
be supported by ZimTrade (US$0.3 million), which for these purposes has been included as
Government financing. Cofinancing from USAID and NORAD (estimated at US$1.8 million
equivalent) would contribute to the management of the SBAI Initiative as well as finance a
Technical Adviser. Private enterprises will participate in the financing of the project for a total
amount of US$23.7 million, including approximately 25-50% of matching grants and 20% of
sub-loans. Credit proceeds would be provided: (i) by the Government to PFIs as sub-loans via
the RBZ; (ii) as matching grants for the Business Services component and the Support to
Financial Institutions subcomponent; and (iii) as direct grants for the management of the
Business Services component and for other Institutional Development subcomponents.
Table 3: Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Cost                    Local   Foreign    Total   % Total
Finance Component                  39.4     48.8      88.1    83.2
SME Finance Fund                  25.0      6.3      31.3    29.5
SME Credit Guarantee               5.6                5.6     5.3
Export Finance Fund                8.8     35.0      43.8    41.3
Export Credit Guarantee                     7.5       7.5     7.1
Business Services Component         8.6      5.7      14.3    13.5
Institutional Development Component  0.4     1.9       2.2     2.1
Contingency                         0.4      0.9       1.3     1.2
TOTAL                              48.8     57.2    106.0   100.0
Financing Plan
Private Enterprises               10.6     13.1      23.7    22.3
Government of Zimbabwe             5.2      5.3      10.5     9.9
Co-Financing                                 1.8      1.8     1.7
IDA                               33.0     37.0      70.0    66.0
TOTAL                              48.8     57.2    106.0   100.0
F. Project Implementation
4.30         Project Implementation Plan. The framework for project implementation will be
a Project Implementation Plan which will be developed by the Government in association with
IDA. Such a plan will detail the precise objectives and operating parameters of each project
component, indicate the institutional and managerial arrangements, and indicate precise
monitoring indicators to evaluate outcomes. The plan should be developed under the leadership
of the Steering Team, with the execution by the Administrative Secretariat. Furnishing IDA such
a plan, satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
4.31         Institutional Arrangements. The project would operate under the guidance of a
Steering Team (see Annex D) which would be comprised of the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce (chairman); the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance; the Head of Planning, National Economic Planning Commission; the Governor of the
Reserve Bank; the chief executives of the Zimbabwe Investment Center, ZimTrade, CZI, the



- 27 -
ZNCC and the Bankers Association; and a representative nominated by the indigenous business
community. The Steering Team would meet every two months, or more frequently as
circumstances dictate. Members of the Steering Team could designate officials to act on their
behalf, particularly given the likely possibility of the appointment of designated subcommittees
for select issues. A committee of the Steering Team would be designated to review eligibility
certification proposals for the participation of financial intermediaries. The functions of the
Steering Team would be as follows:
*  to monitor the overall direction of the Project and recommend modifications in design or
execution to IDA, as needed, in accordance with the parameters established under the Project;
*  to appoint staff and consultants under the project, as designated in the project documents;
*  to approve SBAI matching grants in excess of US$30,000;
*  to review business plans and support programs of any SBAI association, after such an
association has made expenditures in aggregate of US$35,000;
*  to confirm eligibility of an SBAI association for any subsequent US$35,000 tranche support;
*  to approve ZMGS matching grants above US$50,000 equivalent and all proposals for
matching grants referred to it by the ZMGS Management Team;
*  to review progress in the implementation of the individual project components, based upon
statistical information provided by the Administrative Secretariat or executing units for each
of the three components; and
*  to approve financial institutions for full or partial eligibility to participate under the project in
consultation with IDA, and in accordance with the eligibility criteria established and
evaluations conducted by external auditors. In the case of institutions found partially
eligible, agreeing on an action plan for the financial intermediary to remedy the deficiencies
noted.
4.32        An Administrative Secretariat, described in Annex E, would be responsible under
the project for carrying out the management functions of the Institutional Development
component, as well as would serve as an administrative arm of the Steering Team.
4.33        The Business Services component would be administered as follows: The SBAI
Initiative would be managed by an SBAI Administrator and supplemented by support from a
Technical Adviser.  This Administrator would have some autonomous decision-making
authority, subject to the limitations indicated in para. 4.31 above. The Administrator would be
required to be appointed prior to Credit Effectiveness. The ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme
would be implemented by a ZMGS Management Team (two full-time ZimTrade staff), with the
support and oversight of the Steering Team. The Matchmaking Facility would be implemented
by a Matchmaking Management Contractor. The respective managers of each of these three
schemes would be required to furnish IDA with satisfactory operational guidelines for the SBAI,
ZMGS and the Matchmaking Facility, respectively, as a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
4.34        The Finance component would be managed through an Apex Unit and a Credit
Guarantee Agency (CGA) in the RBZ, in accordance with a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to
be entered into between the Government and the RBZ. The signing of such an agreement would
be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The Apex would be responsible for: (i) intermediation of
SME and Export Finance funds acting as an agent on behalf of the Government, including the
facilitation of subproject commitments, subproject disbursements, and collection of repayments



- 28 -
from PFIs; (ii) collecting and reviewing summary loan documents provided by PFIs; (iii)
overseeing the coordination of functions between the finance funds and guarantee facilities for
SMEs and exporters respectively; (iv) facilitating the transmission of eligibility evaluations from
interested financial intermediaries' auditors and the Steering Team; and (v) providing quarterly
summary statistical progress reports to the Steering Team and IDA. The functions the RBZ would
perform in administering the export and SME credit guarantee facilities would be to verify that the
exporter (via the PFI) has the required documentation, issue a guarantee certificate when approved,
and facilitate PFI account reconciliation in the event of default. All finance and guarantee functions
carried out by the Apex and CGA would be done on the account of the Government of Zimbabwe
and not the RBZ. The Apex would receive an annual fee of 0.5% on the average balance of sub-
loans it intermediates in order to cover the administrative costs associated with the above
responsibilities. The establishment by the RBZ of the Apex Unit, satisfactory to IDA and the
furnishing to IDA of satisfactory operating procedures would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness. Compliance with the procedures and terms and conditions set out in the Project
Agreement would be a condition of disbursement of sub-loan funds.
4.35        Eligibility criteria for access of financial intermediaries to the Apex facility (see
Annex B). The aim of such eligibility criteria is to assure that: (i) retail institutions with access
to the facility are solvent and well-managed so as to assure their own sustainability; and (ii) such
institutions have the outreach to serve the SME and exporter target groups. The eligibility
criteria will use a stepladder approach, whereby select institutions will have limited eligibility
and then, depending upon their financial position and ability to lend, could increase their
exposure thereafter. The certification of at least one financial intermediary to participate in the
Project and the entering into a Participating Agreement with that financial intermediary would be
a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
4.36        The Institutional Development (ID) component would be administered by the
Administrative Secretariat as indicted in para. 4.32 above.
4.37        Procurement. Procurement of goods and works under the project would be
carried out in accordance with the Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
of January 1995, as summarized in Annex G. Procurement under sub-loans estimated to cost
US$60.0 million in aggregate would be in accordance with established local commercial
practices consistent with Section 3.12 of the Guidelines. PFIs will have to satisfy themselves
that goods and services are for investments approved by them and are reasonably priced, by
ensuring that sub-borrowers obtain the best prices by purchasing at the most advantageous
source. PFIs would be required to maintain records and documentation of procurement under
individual sub-loans for review by IDA during supervision.
4.38        As indicated in Annex A, under the Business Services and Institutional
Development components, all goods and services would be procured in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of goods (computers and equipment) under these
components would be made according to local shopping procedures, based on three quotations,
for any single contract totaling US$30,000 or less, according to Bank Procurement Guidelines of
January, 1995. Goods contracts costing more than US$30,000, but less than US$100,000, would
be procured in accordance with National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB). Goods



- 29 -
contracts in excess of US$ 100,000 would be procured in accordance with International
Competitive Bidding Procedures. The aggregate limit of the procurement of goods under the
Table 4: Procurement
(US$ Million)
NCB    Other       NIF    Project Cost
Finance Component
SME and Export Credit Finance             60.0       18.1      78.1
Facilities                                (60.0)               (60.0)
Guarantee Facilities                                 10.0       10.0
Business Services/lnstitutional Development Components
Personal Computers and Office     0.1     0. l                  0.2
Equipment                         (0. 1)    (0.1)              (0.2)
Consultants' Services                      8.8       6.9        15.7
(8.8)               (6.3)
Training                                   1.0       1.0        2.0
(1.0)                (1.0)
Total                                 0.1     69.9      36.0       106.0
(0. 1)   (69.9)              (70.0)
NIF - Not IDA-financed. Amounts in parenthesis are the amounts IDA financed.
combined Local Shopping and National Competitive Bidding procedures would be US$200,000.
Selection and contracting of consultants would be in accordance with the Guidelines, Use of
Consultants by World Bank and by World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981. Standard
procurement/consultancy recruitment timetables and documents should also be used. Prior IDA
review would be required for consulting and other services for: (a) all contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive selection and amendments to contracts with individuals with a final value of
US$50,000 or more and US$100,000 or more with firms; (b) all contracts awarded on the basis
of sole source; and (c) terms of reference for all contracts.
4.39          Disbursement.   Disbursement categories and  projected  disbursements  are
indicated in Tables 5 and 6 below. IDA will finance 100% of the IDA-allocated portion (US$70
million equivalent) as indicated in Annex H. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are
detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are
subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the
Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be
fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of
US$100,000 or less for goods, consulting firms and training; (ii) US$50,000 or less for
individual consultants; and (iii) all of the expenditures under the finance component which may
be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOE's would be retained by the Administrative Secretariat and the
Apex Unit, and will be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and
project auditors. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods and services, the
Government would open two Special Accounts (SA) in a commercial bank to cover local and
foreign currencies of IDA's share of eligible expenditures for the Finance, Business Services and
Institutional Development components. The authorized allocation of Special Account A for the
Finance component would be US$4.0 million, covering an estimated four months of eligible



- 30 -
expenditures financed by IDA. The authorized allocation of Special Account B for the Business
Services and Institutional Development components would be US$500,000. Upon credit
effectiveness, 50% of the authorized allocations, amounting to US$2.0 million and US$250,000
respectively, would be deposited to the Special Accounts. The remaining balance will be made
available once total commitments under Special Account A have reached or exceeded SDR 8.0
million and under-Special Account B, SDR 1.0 million. Replenishment applications should be
submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly bank statements are received and
reconciled by the implementing agencies, along with appropriate supporting documents for local
and foreign expenditures as required. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of eligible
expenditures should be paid through the Special Accounts.
Table 5: Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Category                     Amount  % of Total     % of Expenditures Financed
(1) Finance Component          60.0      85.7    100% of amounts disbursed
Business Services/Institutional Development Components
(2) Matching Grants                              100% of amounts disbursed
PFIs                       0.4       0.6
Other Items                4.1        5.9
(3) Goods                      0.1       0.1    100% of foreign expenditures, I 00% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(4) Training and Consultant Services             100% of amounts disbursed
EPZ Authority              0.1       0.1
SEDCO                      0.1        0.1
Other Items                3.4        4.9
(5) Unallocated                1.8       2.6
Total                          70.0     100.0
Table 6: Estimated IDA Disbursements14
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year          1997    1998      1999      2000     2001      2002     2003
Annual                   4.2      5.6      11.2     14.0      14.0      11.2      9.8
Cumulative               4.2      9.8      21.0     35.0      49.0      60.2     70.0
4.40           Audit and Reporting Requirements. All project accounts, the Special Accounts
Statement of Expenditures and financial accounts of PFIs would be audited at the end of each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Copies of such audit reports would be
forwarded to IDA within six months of the end of each reporting period. MOIC, the SBAI
Administrator, the MM Management Contractor, the ZMGS Management Team, the Apex and
the CGA would all be responsible for maintaining adequate records and a project information
system that would provide quarterly information on disbursements satisfactory to IDA. The
Apex would maintain full records on the Finance component and be responsible for coordinating
the audits of PFIs under its jurisdiction. MOIC would also be responsible for coordinating the
preparation of bi-annual progress reports prepared by each of the implementing agencies,
14 Based on Standard Disbursement Profiles for Zimbabwe.



- 31 -
indicating the progress in meeting the objectives of each component, according to the monitoring
indicators in the Project Implementation Plan.
4.41        Project Supervision.  This project will require significant IDA supervision
resources in order to support its multiple elements. Biannual supervision missions will work
closely with the Steering Team, Administrative Secretariat, the SBAI Administrator, the MM
Management Contractor, the ZMGS Management Team, the Apex and the CGA to jointly
supervise the project. Project supervision will be particularly extensive during the start-up phase
where fourteen staff weeks have been programmed for supervision during the last two months of
FY96 and 39 staff weeks in FY97. This amount is reduced in FY98 to 31 staff weeks and then
increases again to 38 staff weeks during FY99 when a mid-term review would be conducted.
Supervision will draw upon the support of an Local Specialist who will from the Resident
Mission on a part-time basis for a three-year period. Annex I provides a supervision plan.
4.42        Reporting Requirements. Quarterly progress reports under the project would be
sent to the Steering Team and to IDA from the Administrative Secretariat (Institutional
Development Component), RBZ (Credit Component), and the SBAI Administrator, ZMGS
Management Team and the MM Management Contractor (Business Services Component). In
addition, the Steering Team will be expected, with the assistance of the Administrative
Secretariat, to communicate periodically with IDA.
4.43        Mid-Term Review. A Mid-Term review is expected to be completed by June 30,
1999. This review will be carried out jointly with counterpart representatives indicated in para.
4.42 above. Recipients (private firms) would also be surveyed in the review to assess the success
of the project from a user's perspective. The purpose of the review would be to assess: (i)
whether the project is being implemented satisfactorily; (ii) how its design and functions can be
improved; (iii) whether and how it is achieving its objectives as discerned through monitorable
indicators; and (iv) what factors beyond the scope of the project have affected it in achieving its
objectives. Prior to the review, the Administrative Secretariat will be expected to prepare a
detailed report, covering areas to be greed upon with IDA, including an evaluation of progress in
project implementation. Reference documents will include Annex I, operating guidelines,
procedure manuals, audits and other Credit and Project documents.
4.44        Project Completion. This project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002
and its closing date is December 31, 2002. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the
content and format of which would be agreed-upon with IDA, would be prepared within six
months after the closing date. IDA would prepare this ICR in close collaboration with the
Steering Team, the Administrative Secretariat, and the managers of each of the project units.
G. Environment
4.45        Environmental Aspects. This project is not expected to present any specific
environmental risks, and thus it has been given an environmental rating of "B".  An
Environmental Impact Assessment Policy was developed and began to be implemented by the
Ministry of Environment and Tourism in 1994, although the means of implementation has been
weak. A National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) is currently under development. Sub-
projects financed under the project would be required to fully meet existing health, safety and



- 32-
environmental guidelines in effect at a national or a local level, and sub-borrowers would bear
the responsibility for failure to comply with such guidelines. Parallel to this, during project
implementation, the Government will examine how to develop an environmental review
procedure for sub-projects, consistent with the environmental review procedures applied to non-
IDA financed sub-projects. Neither an indigenous people's plan nor resettlement plan has been
developed.
H. Project Benefits and Risks
4.46        Project Benefits. This project would support a process to increase growth and
employment through increases in output led by exports, and broaden the scope of enterprise
development through expansion of small- and medium-sized indigenous businesses. In the wake
of significant policy reforms, the project aims to catalyze a process of accelerated growth by a
series of micro level interventions. Both aim to contribute to poverty alleviation in the medium-
term. This estimate is based on a methodology whereby the project is expected to accelerate an
increase in output by three years.
4.47        Many of the project benefits are difficult to measure in advance because the
project supports an acceleration of a process rather than a concrete outcome. Nevertheless, the
best estimate is that the project would generate a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$52 million at a
discount rate of 12% (see Annex J for details). First, the finance component is expected to
accelerate an increase in output by SMEs and emerging exporters by reducing the funding
constraint and the level of risk through the guarantee mechanism. This is expected to increase
output based on the level of working capital financing each year, reduced by the level of
resources expected to be diverted from other economic activities to achieve this result. Second,
matching grants for emerging exporters is expected, based on other empirical evaluations, to
yield an increase in output of these firms of at least ten times the amount of the combined
matching grant and the contribution of the enterprise, reduced by the level of resources expected
to be diverted from other economic activities to achieve this result. Third, albeit more indirectly,
matching grants for business associations is expected to increase output in accordance both with
the increase in membership of these associations, but, more importantly, in accordance with the
increased level of provision of service provided by these associations. Finally, measurement of
the economic benefits of institutional development support is the most difficult, because support
only yields provision of services to firms indirectly. Nonetheless, for the purpose of consistency,
it was assumed that this support would increase output, staggered 2 years after disbursements,
equal to the level of support.
4.48        Project Risks. The project's principal risks are: (i) the Government may fail to
contain the fiscal deficit, such that the impact of greater credit access and information
mechanisms is overshadowed and handicapped by macroeconomic instability and interest rates
which stifle emerging enterprises; (ii) certain components or subcomponents may prove more or
less difficult to administer, and thus turn out more or less successful in reaching their objectives;
(iii) the Government may not fully support the institution-building measures supported by the
credit because of insufficient commitment as shown in staffing or other resources, especially
counterpart funds; (iv) alternative below market funding could be provided by the Government
or other sources and undermine the Finance component; and (v) measures may prove slow to be
taken to further eliminate remaining anti-export biases inherent in the tariff and tax structure, so



- 33 -
that exporters remain non-competitive in spite of measures supported under this project. These
actions could lead to weak results and threaten the sustainability of impact.
4.49        The most import measures mitigating against these risks are that the project has
been designed in a modular form such that component parts have been designed with some
parameters for evolution during implementation, and the redesign or the elimination of one
subcomponent need not affect the functioning of others. It is expected that some components or
subcomponents may not work out entirely as envisioned, but that such limitations need not
materially deter from the overall success of the project. Other features mitigating and adjusting
for these risks are: (i) the ongoing dialogue on the macroeconomic program among the Bank,
IMF and Government; (ii) the Finance Component will prove self-regulating to the extent that
commitments would slow if real interest rates remain high; (iii) in order to reduce the possibility
of alternative funding provided by other sources undercutting the Finance Component,
considerable discussions with multiple stakeholders has attempted to explain the poor results of
such subsidized interventions; (iv) a large number of stakeholders have been consulted and are
working as part of the project to support the measures which would make it a success; and (v)
Government has committed itself to the objectives of emerging enterprise development as
evidenced by its Industrial Policy Statement.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         Actions Agreed. The following were the agreements and assurances received
during Negotiations: (i) a Subsidiary Financing Agreement satisfactory to IDA will be entered
into by the Government of Zimbabwe and the RBZ (para. 4.34); (ii) the project will be carried
out in accordance with a Project Implementation Plan, including action plans for all components
(para. 4.30); (iii) standard procurement/consultancy recruitment timetables and documents will
be utilized during project implementation (para. 4.38); (iv) financial audits will be utilized during
project implementation (para. 4.40); and (v) a Mid-Term review will be undertaken within 30
months of Credit Effectiveness, but no later than June 30, 1999, with Government and private
sector participation and analytical inputs, and actions agreed during the review would be
implemented expeditiously, in consultation with IDA (para. 4.43).
5.2         The following actions are the main conditions of Credit Effectiveness: (i) the
establishment of an Administrative Secretariat satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.32); (ii) the
appointment of an Administrator satisfactory to IDA for the Subsector Business Associations
Initiative (SBAI) under the Project (paras. 4.6, 4.33); (iii) the establishment of a Management
Team satisfactory to IDA for the administration of the ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme
(ZMGS) under the Project (paras. 4.7, 4.33); (iv) the establishment by the RBZ of an Apex Unit
satisfactory to IDA and the furnishing to IDA of satisfactory operating procedures for the Apex
Unit (paras. 4.34, 4.9-4.18); (v) the furnishing to IDA of a project implementation plan
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.30); (vi) the furnishing to IDA of satisfactory operational guidelines
for SBAI, ZMGS and the Matchmaking Facility (para. 4.33); (vii) the certification of at least one
financial intermediary to participate in the Project and entering into a Participating Agreement
with that financial intermediary (para. 4.35); (viii) the signing of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement (para. 4.34); and (ix) the furnishing to IDA of satisfactory guidelines for the
evaluation of financial intermediaries to be approved to participate in the Project (para. 4.35).



- 34 -
5.3         The following are conditions of Disbursement: (i) Sub-loans - compliance with
the procedures and terms and conditions set out in the Project Agreement (para. 4.34); (ii)
Matching Grants for financial intermediaries - furnishing to IDA of guidelines satisfactory to
IDA for the administration of the Matching Grants (para. 4.20); (iii) the EPZ Authority -
establishment of an EPZ Authority satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.25); and (iv) SEDCO - the
furnishing to IDA of a plan satisfactory to IDA for the strengthening of SEDCO's financial
administration and strategic focus (para. 4.21).
5.4         Recommendation. With the above agreements, the project will be suitable for a
credit of SDR 47.5 million (US$70 million equivalent) to the Government of Zimbabwe, on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, 10 years grace.



- 35 -                                     Annex A
Business Services Component
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Business Services Component
I. Intouction
1.            The objective of this Project is to support a stronger supply response by private sector
enterprises to policy reforms undertaken, including: (i) increasing the growth of export-based output; and
(ii) broadening participation in economic activity, in particular by indigenous firms. The Business
Services Component aims to "kickstart" these changes in Zimbabwe's private sector -- an increased
outward-orientation, enhanced international linkages, and a heightened awareness of the mutual benefits
of strengthened domestic networks which encompass large and small, established and emerging
enterprises. To achieve this, it is necessary in implementing this Component that:
*  the focal points for project implementation enjoy the confidence and support of the full range
of participants in Zimbabwe's private sector; and that
*  the organizational arrangements for implementation be temporary -- signaling that the goal is
not to create a permanent new public bureaucracy to "support" the private sector, but rather
to induce sustained changes in private actions and organizations.
2.             The Business Services Component comprises three elements -- the Subsector Business
Associations Initiative (SBAI), the ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme (ZMGS), and the Foreign-
Domestic Matchmaking (MM) Initiative. As discussed below, each of these subcomponents would have
a manager or managers and would operate under the broad oversight of the EDP Steering Team. IDA
support for the Business Services Component would amount to US$7.4 million of a total cost of US$14.3
million as indicated in Table Al below.
II. Subsector Business Associations Initiative (SBAI)
3.             Background. International experience suggests that strong, service-oriented subsector
associations can play an important role in fostering productivity and competitiveness. As organizations
accountable to their members, they have a powerful incentive to ensure that the services they offer are
indeed those desired by their members. As collective organizations, they can provide services which
firms -- especially smaller firms -- might not be in a position to procure individually.I Further, they can
provide a valuable forum for networking among firms. The kinds of activities which a well-functioning
association active in a vibrant subsector might undertake could include:
+  preparation and provision of programs to improve the productivity and competitiveness of
members;
+  provision of information on trends in the subsector domestically and globally, and other
domestic issues of particular relevance to subsector members; and
+  a forum to facilitate networking and information-sharing among members.
Conceptually, there are two complementary rationales here. First, subsector associations as collective associations are well
positioned to provide "intra-industry public goods (services)". Second, they can provide services for which the fixed costs/scale economies
preclude provision by all but the largest firms.



- 36 -                                        AnnexA
Business Services Component
Table Al: Business Services Component Budget - Projected Cost and Budget
(US$ Thousands)
Co-              Private
IDA   Fin      Govt.    Firms   Total
1. Subsector Business Associations Initiative                   1.400 1,215                 500   3115
SBAI Administrator                                                 1,215                       1,215
Specialist Management Contracting Services                    150                                150
SBAI Matching Grants                                         1,250                      500   1,750
Initial Support of Business Plan Preparation                150                                150
Matching Grant for Technical and Marketing Programs         900                        300   1,200
Matching Grants for Subsector Association Staff Person      200                        200    400
2. Zimtrade Matching Grant                                      3.765   200 1/   288       3,000   7.253
Local Staffing                                                                270 2/            270
Rent                                                                            18 2/             18
Technical Adviser                                                    200 1/                      200
Initial Outreach Expenses                                      15                                 15
Training for ZimTrade staffers                                150                                150
Specialist Management Contracting Services                    600                               600
Matching Grants                                              3,000                     3,000   6,000
3. Matchmaker Initiative                                        1.750   100 1/             1,200  305
MM Management Contractor                                      250                               250
Technical Adviser                                                    100 11                      100
Matchmaker Grants                                            1,500                     1,200   2,700
Initial Travel                                             300                                300
Collaboration Incentive                                   1,200                     1,200   2,400
4. Contingency - Demand-Responsive Matching Grants                500                       400    900
GRAND TOTAL                                                     7.415 1.515       288      5.1   14.318
1/   The allocation of funds for this individual is based on the projected work program. Such an individual will also have
responsibilities under the Administrative Secretariat as indicated in Annex E.
2/    The amount of funding indicated would be the contribution by ZimTrade to the staffing and operating expenses of the
facility. They do not represent an additional fiscal responsibility by the Government.
4.             Objective. The objective of the SBAI program  is to help "kickstart" the emergence of
Zimbabwean associations capable of providing services to their members and acting as a forum for
networking among firms. These associations comprise groupings of firms engaged in similar activities,
typically manufacturing or services. In those cases, where for reasons of Zimbabwe's history, there
exists more than one association for a particular activity, the component will endeavor to foster
collaboration among these associations.
5.             Description. The SBAI Initiative has three parts:
*  The Initiative would provide development support to strengthen the capability of subsector
associations by providing financial support for the preparation of an initial business plan by
the association;
+  The Initiative would provide additional development support via a 50:50 matching grant
program, providing support for 12 months to cover the costs of a subsector association staff
person specialized in the concerns of the relevant subsector. This person could be full- or
part-time, and could be shared with one other subsector association; and
*  The Initiative would support subsector associations in the preparation of technical and
marketing programs (program matching grants) which aimed to improve the



- 37 -                                    Annex A
Business Services Component
competitiveness and productivity of firms. The component would support the development
of such programs through the provision of matching funds, on a 25:75 cost-sharing basis (25
percent paid by participating firms, and 75 percent covered by the project) for eligible
programs. The intent is that, once the programs are designed, their delivery is contracted out
to private, domestic or foreign providers. On an as-needed basis, specialist assistance will be
made available to support associations in their preparation of an initial round of programs.
6.            Both the direct development support and program  matching grants are intended as
catalysts -- demonstrations to firms in the relevant subsectors, and to the private sector more broadly, of
the benefits of strong, productivity-oriented subsector associations. The expectation is that, having once
experienced the benefits to be derived from such associations, firms will then be willing to continue
using them, unsupported by SBAI grants. Consequently, the scheme is designed to be temporary, to
operate only for a single, three-year period.
7.            The SBAI Grant Support is estimated at US$1.25 million equivalent, which is derived
from estimates of the number of participants and average size for each type of support: This support is
allocated as follows:
v  Development Support. It is especially difficult to predict the demand for development
support -- both the number of associations that might be interested, and the balance between
full-time and part-time demand per association. An amount of US$10,000 would be
allocated per association for the preparation of a business plan, with 15 subsector
associations estimated to participate in this subcomponent, making for a total estimated cost
of US$150,000. Development support for a subsector association staffperson is estimated to
require over a three-year period, the equivalent of six full-time specialists for 12 months, at
an approximate cost of US$200,000.
*  Program  Matching Grants.  For program  matching grant support, a grant ceiling of
US$100,000 over the period would be set per subsector/association. A reasonable target is
that over a three-year period, 75:25 matching grant support for programs will be provided to
30 existing subsector associations, at an average cost of US$30,000 each. Total IDA support
would thus amount to US$900,000.
8.            Oversight and  Management.   The SBAI will be implemented by an SBAI
Administrator, supported as needed by specialist management contracting services, and by a Technical
Adviser to the Project. The SBAI Administrator will have full responsibility for managing the SBAI
initiative. This Administrator will be funded by USAID, and will operate as a member of the USAID
Zimbabwe Enterprise Project team. As needed, the Administrator will be supported by a Technical
Adviser for the Project. To support SBAI management, IDA will make available US$150,000 to contract
specialist management contracting services, to work with subsector associations in the preparation of
relevant technical and marketing programs. These funds could be disbursed as agreed by the SBAI
Administrator and a Technical Adviser. All uses of these funds should be reported to the Steering Team.
9.            Oversight of the SBAI. Oversight of the SBAI will be exercised by the Steering Team
of the Project. In addition, as part of the normal operation of the SBAI, its staff will be responsible for
ongoing liaison with the full range of business associations in Zimbabwe -- including CZI, ZNCC, IBDC
and ZABO. One possibility to which the Steering Team and the SBAI Administrator might give serious
consideration (but not explicitly required in the project) is having an explicit review of the SBAI
program every three months with an informal liaison committee (comprising representatives of
Zimbabwe's business association community) established for that purpose.



- 38 -                                    AnnexA
Business Services Component
10.           Approval Procedures.  Matching grants for program  support of under US$30,000
would be able to be approved jointly by the SBAI Administrator and a Technical Adviser. Grants of
program support in excess of that amount will require the approval of the Steering Team or its designated
representatives.  Once any association has received a cumulative total of support amounting to
US$35,000 (including support for the preparation of a business plan and development support for staff),
the program of support and the association's business plan must be reviewed by the Steering Team or its
designated representative prior to any further provision of support. A second review will be required
once the cumulative total amount of support reaches US$70,000.
11.           Eligibility of Associations and Programs. One crucial criterion for eligibility for these
funds is that participating subsector associations be well-placed to mount focused programs of technical
and marketing support for their members (see below). This criterion suggests that a broad range of
business groupings -- though not the full universe -- would be eligible. Subsector associations organized
around members engaged in activities such as manufacturing, agro-processing, tourism/hostelry would
be well-positioned to mount such focused programs -- and hence would straightforwardly qualify to
access start-up support. Local chambers of commerce, whose members are drawn from a wide variety of
activities, would not be eligible.
12.           Requirements of participating associations are:
*  that the putative association have a critical mass of members -- 10;
* that the governing authority of the association be democratically elected by the membership;
*  that members pay dues at an agreed rate (how this rate will change once the initial start-up
support for overhead costs has been drawn down should be specified from the start); and
*  that the association formally commit itself to work cooperatively on the provision of
business services and information with any other associations that might operate (or emerge)
in a similar sphere of business activity.
13.           The last criterion is critical to the nurturance of a positive, business environment in
which information flows freely. Consequently, it would be a precondition for any business organization
to gain access to project resources (including matching grants for programs) -- including national
associations, and local, multi-sectoral chambers of business.
14.           Eligibility for Program Matching Grant Funds. For an association to be eligible for
matching grant funds for programs which it might mount, it will need to meet all the eligibility criteria
delineated above. It will also need to develop a strategic business plan which outlines how it plans to
evolve in the subsequent few years. As described above, the SBAI initiative will provide up to
US$10,000 to support the costs of developing this plan. Plans prepared independently should be
discussed with the SBAI Administrator prior to the receipt of program support. The SBAI Administrator
will require the approval of the Steering Team not to provide any support should the plan be judged
unsatisfactory, and fail to be modified. In addition, associations that seek program matching grant funds
will need to agree to the following:
*  to permit non-members to participate in programs funded with matching grants;
*  to actively market these programs to non-members; and
*  (if there are any other subsector associations with members drawn from similar subsector
activities) to offer to provide the programs in co-operation with the parallel association or, if
that association is unwilling to co-operate, to allow the association's members to participate.
Additionally, all applications for program support will need to be accompanied by a statement of how the
program supported by the SBAI will benefit smaller-scale firms.



- 39 -                                    AnnexA
Business Services Component
15.           The above does not preclude associations from having programs for members only; these
could not, however, be supported with matching grant funds. Note also that the detailed eligibility
criteria outlined above focus on the organization of subsector associations, and their relations with others
-- not the detailed content of the programs to be offered. In the initial stage of the component, it is
expected that subsector associations will develop programs jointly with the management team. But once
the association develops the capability to design programs in-house, so long as the program is focused on
specialized, subsector initiatives to enhance productivity (see below), no effort should be made to
second-guess the association's programs with independent technical evaluations.
16.           Types of Eligible Programs. The general principle is that eligible programs are those
that aid the efforts of firms to improve productivity and competitiveness. Eligible programs should not
be general purpose in character (i.e. they should not focus on general management and financing issues
that are generic to firms across multiple activities). Rather, they should be tailored to the specific
requirements of firms in particular activities.
17.           As noted above, applications for SBAI program funds will need to include a statement
which details how the program will benefit smaller-scale firms. Programs which benefit only large firms
will not be eligible for SBAI support. In principle, all firms in the relevant activity could participate in
supported programs. In practice, large firms are likely to be less dependent on collective mechanisms
than their smaller counterparts to gain access to productivity-enhancing resources. (The matching grant
component for individual firms, possibly operating through ZimTrade and described elsewhere, is
intended to help kickstart such efforts.) Further, the Project is targeted for a tier of firms larger than
informal, microenterprises. It follows that programs would usefully be designed to reach the "middle-
tier" of small-to-medium terms.
18.           One objective of subsector associations is as a mechanism to elicit demand from small-
to-medium firms as to what kinds of services they find useful. So, subject to the general principles
delineated above, it would be contrary to that objective for this component to prescribe what programs
are eligible.
19.           In the initial phase of development, subsector associations may not yet be in a position to
elicit demand.  So nascent associations might usefully work with the management team  on the
development of an initial menu of offerings. (The requirement that participating firms cover 25 percent
of costs would provide a useful "reality check" as to what is demanded, even at the initial stage.)
Broadly speaking, "specialized, tailored programs" aim to enhance a Technical and marketing
capabilities of firms:
*  Technical programs aim  to enhance the productivity with which firms pursue their
specialized business activities. Such programs likely include initiatives to: (i) improve
organization of the workplace; (ii) upgrade the quality of equipment; (iii) strengthen design
capability; plus (iv) other initiatives to enhance product quality. These might also include
targeted, short-duration initiatives to enhance the skills of specific categories of workers.
*  Marketing programs aim to enhance the ability of firms to pursue initiatives to penetrate new
domestic or export markets. The SBAI will support programs to promote the dissemination
of subsector-specific, but not firm-specific, information. Firm-specific information will be
disseminated through the ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme.  Among the range of
domestically-oriented programs are those that seek to promote subcontracting between large
and small firms. It is anticipated that such programs could be funded through the linkage
programs developed by USAID and NORAD. Programs focusing on export markets could



- 40 -                                  Annex A
Business Services Component
initially fruitfully be developed in collaboration with ZimTrade -- although it is important
that from the first subsector associations have the autonomy to draw on export marketing
services from sources other than ZimTrade.
20.          Based on experience elsewhere, programs in areas such as the above would often be
mounted in the form of short "courses" (ranging from a two-hour presentation to a two day program).
An alternative model might be for the subsector association to invite a consultant for a visit of, say, two
weeks duration, during which time the consultant might provide individually-tailored advice to a number
of interested firns.
21.          The SBAI Administrator. The SBAI Administrator will be located in the offices of the
USAID Zimbabwe Enterprise Development (ZED) Project, and will be fully financed by USAID (as its
cofinancing contribution to this project). The tasks of the Administrator will include the following:
*  promoting the SBAI -- and the advantages of networks of co-operation among firms -- to
subsector associations and business groupings more broadly;
*  supporting subsector associations in the preparation of business plans which outline the
strategic direction of the association (this activity may be conducted jointly with private
consultants recruited with funds made available through the SBAI for that purpose);
*  working together with subsector associations, and other external advisers as necessary, to
develop technical and marketing programs for the subsector to be supported by SBAI
matching grants, including identification of private providers for the programs;
*  ensuring that programs supported by the SBAI are responsive to the needs of smaller and
newer firms, as well as established, large companies;
*  approving, jointly with a Technical Adviser, all matching grants of program support to
subsector associations for amounts below US$30,000, and reporting on these approvals to
the EDP Steering Team;
i preparing (jointly with a Technical Adviser) recommendations to the Steering Team on
whether to support applications for individual SBAI program grants in excess of US$30,000;
*  when subsector associations reach the cumulative US$35,000 and US$70,000 benchmarks of
SBAI support, preparing (jointly with the subsector association) a review of progress for the
Steering Team, including a recommendation on whether support for that association should
continue; and
*  approving, jointly with a Technical Adviser, matching grant support for the appointment of a
full- or part-time staffperson by an individual subsector association.
III. ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme
A. Objectives and Functions
22.          Background. The Economic and Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP) has radically
altered the "rules of the game" for Zimbabwe's private sector. Prior to ESAP, Zimbabwe's private sector
operated on the presumption of stable domestic markets, and with very limited innovation. In a
liberalized environment, the private sector will need to become more dynamic and more outward-
oriented -- looking for opportunities in international markets, scanning globally for technological and
other innovations which it can apply at home, and incorporating high quality imported inputs into its
production process.
23.          Objectives. The ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme (ZMGS) is intended to support the
process of restructuring in two ways:



- 41 -                                   Annex A
Business Services Component
*  ZMGS will stimulate the use of foreign and domestic support services and travel by private
firms through the provision of 50:50 cost-sharing grants. Experience elsewhere indicates
that these activities can contribute strongly to speeding firm-level response.  Support
services quickly introduce into firms the skills, know-how, information and contacts that will
be needed, in order either to defend against import competition, or to expand exports. Travel
by key personnel helps to build realism about how best the firm can find its niche in an
international marketplace. It establishes contacts both with export outlets and with sources
of imported inputs that could help build competitiveness.
*  Zimbabwean firms however, appear to seriously undervalue what can be gained during firm-
level adjustment from the use of support services and travel. Because they undervalue the
benefits they expect from services and travel abroad, these firms perceive both as
"expensive," and therefore of low interest. As a way of encouraging firms to explore what
might be the benefits of these external sources of information and know-how, the ZMGS will
provide, on the basis of a plan prepared by the firm, 50-50 cost-sharing grants towards the
costs of buying in outside support services and travel. Based on international experience, it
is expected that about 80 percent of grant support will go towards technical and productivity
adjustments within the factory, and about 20 percent will support efforts at marketing
directly.
*  ZMGS will support the process of restructuring in a "hands-on" way with firms to prepare
firm-level plans aimed at enhancing competitiveness -- involving support services and travel,
and to be supported by the ZMGS. To be sure, Zimbabwean firms are far better placed than
outsiders to know what are the opportunities and constraints in the domestic markets in
which they operate; and they know better than outsiders how to respond to the specific
challenges of efficient production posed by the Zimbabwean setting. However, long years of
isolation and limited competition are likely to have left substantial knowledge gaps as to
global trends in their specific markets, in technological innovation, and in innovations in
work organization and planning. These gaps make it difficult for firms to alone prepare
plans for effectively drawing on external sources of information and know-how.
24.           The Matching Grant scheme would seek to add to, strengthen, and build upon a
foundation of the current Export Promotion for Support Services (EPSS), currently offered by ZimTrade.
The Scheme represents a reformulation of the existing scheme, as well as an upgrading and extension of
the program.
25.           The ZMGS Management Team will have a full-time Zimbabwean staff, plus access to
specialist private management contracting resources, with the global knowledge and private sector
experience that can help fill the knowledge gaps in the private sector. It will proactively promote the
scheme to owners and senior managers of private firms, concentrating on those assessed as having the
highest potential for building international competitiveness. The objective of this promotional effort will
be to encourage firms to make use of the scheme, to obtain agreement on a formal plan which could be
supported by the scheme, and on the initial set of actions by the firm for implementing that plan.
26.           Both the matching grant cost-sharing and the proactive, hands-on initiatives are intended
as catalysts -- demonstrations to participating firms, and to the private sector more broadly, of the
benefits of actively seeking out external sources of information and know-how. The expectation is that,
having once experienced the benefits to be derived from such activities, firms will then be willing to
continue using them, unsupported by ZMGS grants. Consequently, the scheme is deliberately designed
to be temporary, to operate only for a single, three-year period.



- 42 -                                    A nnex A
Business Services Component
B. Organization of ZMGS
27.           Demand Size of the Matching Grant Fund. Demand for matching grant schemes
along the above lines is difficult to predict accurately in advance, especially since comprehensive
statistics as to the number and size of Zimbabwean firms are not publicly available. As a starting point,
ZimTrade has a register of about 1,000 potential exporting firms.' Increasing this number by 50 percent
to account for excluded firms and new entrants yields a total of 1,500 firms. International experience
suggests that if the ZMGS can persuade 10-15 percent of these firms to participate in the scheme, it
could be counted a success. Thus a reasonable goal would be to have 200 participants over the scheme's
three-year lifespan.
28.           Since the benefits to Zimbabwe would be substantial if large firms also made serious
efforts at restructuring, it is not intended to limit participation in the scheme only to small and medium
enterprises. The costs of implementing a restructuring plan by a large firm can be substantial. To
provide an attractive incentive for large firms to participate, while ensuring that grant funds are not
disproportionately directed towards very few firms, a cap of US$100,000 of grant support will be set per
firm. In the event that a substantial number of large grants are approved early in the program, this
ceiling -- and other parameters of the component -- can be reviewed by the Steering Team in association
with IDA.
29.           In practice few, if any, matching grants are likely to reach this US$100,000 ceiling
(which would support a US$200,000 program -- with US$100,000 covered by the participating firm).
ZimTrade data identifies only 109 firms with 500 or more employees, and only 72 with turnover above
US$12.3 million (Zim$100 million). Moreover, as a guideline, a large proportion of applications for the
existing EPSS (on which more below) were for substantially less than the US$10,000 ceiling. Based on
these data and international experience, a reasonable expectation is that the average grant across the
estimated 200 participants will be for US$15,000 -- implying a total matching grant fund of US$3
million.
30.           Structure and Budget of the ZMGS Management Team. Corresponding to the work-
load implied by the above data, the ZMGS would have two full-time Zimbabwean staff, both formally
employees of ZimTrade, including one senior person designated as Team Leader. The two designated
ZimTrade staffers (plus other ZimTrade personnel) would be provided with specialized training to enable
them to work effectively as technical and organizational (as well as marketing) consultants to the private
sector -- to the point of being able to work effectively in the design of programs which qualify for ZMGS
support. Ordinarily, no firm should receive more than 2-3 days of free support to prepare its program.
The ZimTrade staffers could be supported by an external management contract firm who would provide
specialists to make multiple short-term visits in support of the ZMGS outreach efforts. The management
contract team should have an extensive track record of working intensively on enhancing the
competitiveness and productivity of firms, and should have intimate knowledge of the range of business
support services available in the international marketplace.
31.           IDA resources will support the ZMGS Management Team  in the following ways:
US$600,000 has been allocated under the Project for the specialist management contracting firm. At the
soonest opportunity, the EDP Steering Team (working together with ZimTrade) should initiate the
bidding process to recruit these services for an initial period. US$150,000 has been allocated to support
2      The ZimTrade number is substantially in excess of the 518 manufacturing firms which were registered members of CZI in 1993.
Even so, the CZI firms together still accounted for as much as 86 percent of the official 1993 figure for manufacturing employment reported by
the Central Statistical Office.



-43-                                     Ann-A
Business Services Component
a training initiative to develop the relevant staff skills within ZimTrade. Recurrent costs of the initiative
(salaries of the two ZimTrade staffers, plus office overheads) will be met by ZimTrade. The Project has
allocated a further US$15,000 to cover "extraordinary" expenses associated with the initial year of the
program's launch (e.g. outreach expenses for program launch; office equipment). Thus, total IDA
support for the ZMGS, including the Matching Grant Fund, is estimated to be US$3,765,000.
32.           Oversight of ZMGS. Although ZMGS will operate as part of ZimTrade, formally
responsibility for oversight will vest with the Steering Team of the EDP or its designated representative.
As described earlier, the approach to determining which programs qualify for support will be one of
"quality management" through providing inputs up-front, rather than "quality control" through technical
evaluation of plans. Two options for "quality management" will be available to firms. In the first
option, firms will have the right to submit programs prepared independently; however, to ensure that the
proposed initiatives are presented in good faith, and are broadly consistent with the market positioning of
the firm, no plan will be supported without a visit to the firm by a ZMGS staffperson. In the second
option, program  will he prepared by the firm with the active support of the ZMGS management team
(supplemented :- specialist management contracting services). In keeping with the spirit of "quality
management" r atiler than "quality control, the role of the Steering Team should be largely an arms-length
one, with a primary focus on the overall parameters of the program. Hence, only proposals which
involve grants in excess of US$50,000 would be brought to the Steering Team for approval.
33.           Approvals of proposals under US$50,000 would be the internal responsibility of the
ZMGS management team, and hence ZimTrade. All such proposals would require the joint approval of
the ZMGS team leader plus a Technical Adviser, with proposals in excess of US$30,000 requiring, in
addition, the approval of ZimTrade's chief executive or his or her designated representative.
34.           All approvals by the ZMGS Management Team would be considered by the next
meeting of the Steering Team ex-post, in order for the committee to give guidance on future approvals
policy, where needed. The Steering Team could only revoke an approval already granted by the ZMGS
management team in the event that fraudulent information was determined to have been provided within
an application.
35.           Relation To Other ZimTrade Activities. It is unusual that matching grant schemes are
located within organizations which also directly provide services to firms similar to those supported by
the scheme. For this reason, it is important to be explicit about the relationship between ZimTrade's
activities, and the support to be provided by the ZMGS.
36.           A serious potential conflict of interest could emerge if the ZMGS were to pay ZimTrade
for services which it provided to firms; in such a situation, there could be a strong incentive for
ZimTrade staff on the ZMGS to steer firms towards ZimTrade's services. As a way of avoiding this risk,
it will be stipulated (with the concurrence of ZimTrade's senior management) that no recipient can
obtain a grant for the usage of any services provided by ZimTrade3.
37.           More generally, an important part of ZimTrade's role is a catalytic one -- ZimTrade's
ability to do its job would be enhanced by a "thickening" of the marketplace for private consulting
services, and by an enhancement in the capabilities of specialized subsector business associations. In the
view of the management of ZimTrade, the ZMGS will thus be an important addition to the range of tools
at their disposal.
3      Note that the precedent for this stipulation already is present in a similar stipulation in the present EU funded matching grant
scheme.



- 44 -                                   4nnexA
Business Services Component
38.           There are, however, two ZimTrade programs whose relation to the ZMGS needs explicit
mention. First, as noted, there already exists a European Union (EU)-funded matching grant program --
the Export Promotion Support Scheme. The principles under which the scheme operates -- a low ceiling
of grant support, a passive approach to the receipt of proposals, no formal requirement of factory visits to
applicants, and a technical evaluation of each proposal by a large committee -- are radically at variance
with those presented here, and the EU and ZimTrade have already taken the initiative in exploring how
they might be adapted. It would be desirable to integrate the two programs, as it is difficult to see how
both schemes could operate simultaneously.
39.           Second, ZimTrade offers a New Exporters Development Program, which provides free
training and "hand-holding" to new, potential exporters to the point that they enter export markets. In
principle, such a scheme conflicts with the "develop a plan and then contract for services" approach of
the ZMGS. In practice, the Program is a signal of ZimTrade's commitment that its services are inclusive
-- geared to emerging, predominantly indigenous, enterprises as well as established firms.  This
commitment is important for the ZMGS as well, and it is to be hoped that, as they graduate, enterprises
in the New Exporters Program will increasingly require services on a scale and sophistication that can
most effectively be contracted from private providers with the support of the ZMGS.
C. Qualifying Criteria for Grant Support
40.           Qualifying Firms. The ZMGS would be open to all private firms in all manufacturing,
agro-processing and exportable service sectors. The grant scheme would operate essentially on a "first-
come, first-served" basis. A matching grant would be given provided: (i) the applicant demonstrates a
credible plan for building international competitiveness; (ii) the applicant is willing to make the 50
percent contribution to costs; (iii) the scheme contains adequate defenses against abuse; and (iv) the
activity is shown to contribute to the firm's plan. Grant support for expenditures would be on a
reimbursement basis. That is to say that recipient firms would be expected initially to fund the costs of
supported activities, later claiming back 50 percent reimbursement.
41.           As summarized earlier, members of the ZMGS management team  would seek to
establish a close working relationship with each grant-recipient firm and, as requested, to work with
them in the preparation of their plan to be funded 50:50 by the ZMGS. Proposals prepared jointly with
the team would be "automatically" supported, following the procedures outlined earlier. While firms
would retain the right to prepare their own programs, no program would be supported without a prior
visit to the firm by a member of the management team. Firms which felt that the management team was
being unreasonable in its "suggestions" would have the right to appeal to the Steering Team.
42.          In addition to the above, the scheme would guard against misuse by its insistence on a 50
percent contribution by the firm itself. Also, the scheme would insist on specifying deliverable outputs,
allowing for checking that the money is indeed being used for the purpose agreed. Finally, close
working relationships with each grant-recipient firm would allow the management team to follow up on
any unusual aspects causing concern.
43.           Qualifying Firm-Level Programs. To qualify for ZMGS grant support, firm-level
programs must be aimed at enhancing international competitiveness. The program should be driven by a
written statement, committing the firm to its execution. This statement should demonstrate that the firm
has given serious consideration to the planning issues involved, such as:
* identification of the sequence of steps required within the plan, in order to achieve the
improvement in international competitiveness desired;
* resources required for each step within the plan, both internal and externally-sourced;



- 45 -                                    Annex A
Business Services Component
+ best estimates of the likely benefits to the firm to be achieved by the plan, plus a comparison
of these with the likely costs and risks to the firm; and
* an approximate timed action plan.
44.           A qualifying program will seek to take a firm from its present state of international
competitiveness to some future planned-for state where this has been substantially enhanced. In the
Zimbabwean context, this is virtually certain to involve the firm having to look beyond the small
domestic market. The program may include several steps, and several separate usages of support
services and travel. The program should, however, only seek to deal with competitiveness issues clearly
definable in the firm's present state. Typically, a program to build international competitiveness might
take a firm through three stages:
*  investigation of the target market, be it domestic or foreign, usually starting with desk
research or limited phone research, followed then by more intensive field interviewing,
either carried out by the firm's staff or by an outside service supplier;
*  supply package adaptation, on the basis of information collected from the market, in order to
bring what is being supplied presently into line with customer preferences, and to meet
global competition.  This could be, for instance, through changes in product design,
rationalizing production to reduce costs, or through improved quality assurance, and
*  active selling, with the adaptation completed, of the improved supply package.
Programs can -- and often should -- be broken down into distinctive sub-plans. As noted, the lifetime
grant support for the program to an individual firm is US$100,000. However, to encourage firms to
develop a medium-term strategy for upgrading competitiveness from the start -- and to signal that the
purpose of the subcomponent is to demonstrate the value of external support, not provide an ongoing
subsidy -- limits will be placed on the number of distinctive programs which a firm can submit. In
particular, grant funds will be provided to a firm for a maximum of three programs. Moreover, once a
qualifying program supported by a grant in excess of US$50,000 had been completed, the firm concerned
would thereafter receive no further grant support from the ZMGS.
45.           Qualifying Activities. Any use of external support services, or travel, demonstrably
contributing to any step within a qualifying firm-level plan, would be supported. The following
examples of what would normally qualify and what would not are provided for further guidance:
*  In-factory consultancy and short-term contract management services, say up to six months in
duration per introduced expert, would normally qualify, but new permanent staff
appointments would not;
*  Consultancy or short-term contract management assistance directed specifically at improving
labor productivity or yields on raw materials would normally qualify;
* Assistance in improving in-house capabilities in design-related techniques such as pattern-
making, prototyping, grading, sizing, counter-sampling, etc., would normally qualify.
Buying in a set of designs for one season only, with no longer-term enhancements aimed for,
would normally not qualify;
* The expenses of exposure tours for factory personnel, to view alternative techniques and
technologies in factories elsewhere would normally qualify; and
*  Market exploration  tours by marketing  personnel to  explore new  export market
opportunities.
46.           For each qualifying activity for which grant support was being sought, the firm
concerned would be expected to define at least one "measurable output", the sight of which would allow
the administrators of the scheme to verify that the activity had indeed taken place as described.



- 46 -                                    AnnexA
Business Services Component
Depending on the circumstance, a defined deliverable might consist, for instance, of a detailed
engineering drawing, or a prototype, incorporating quality improvements; a set of standard times
developed for a production process, against which productivity could be assessed; or an externally-
commissioned market report. Administrators would assist client firms in defining suitable outputs that
will allow them to verify activities, but which are in any case beneficial to the firm, rather than produced
merely for the benefit of the scheme.
47.           Qualifying Expenditures. Expenditures on service fees, plus expenditures on travel and
incidental expenses charged at cost, incurred wholly and exclusively on a qualifying activity, would be
eligible for 50 percent grant support. Salaries for staff employed by the supported firm would not be
eligible, nor would recurrent costs such as royalty fees. No expenditures on hardware could be
supported, even where equipment or instrumentation purchases formed an important part of a firm-level
plan. Expenditures on services provided by the firm undertaking the ZMGS management contract or
associated firms (including, as discussed, ZimTrade), would not qualify for support.
48.           The choice of service supplier would be made by the recipient firn, and would not be
restricted to suppliers on any central register, or in any other way. However, the administrators of the
scheme would seek to satisfy themselves as to the supplier's competence for the task intended, and that
there was a genuine arms-length commercial relationship between supplier and user. The administrators
of the scheme would also seek to satisfy themselves that fee rates being charged for services were
broadly in line with market realities, particularly in cases where service suppliers were not previously
known to the administrators. In general, firms procuring services will be encouraged to obtain bids from
at least three technically qualified contenders. Such bids could be required at the discretion of the
administrators -- and will automatically be required for services costing in excess of US$10,000.
D. Terms of Reference for ZMGS Management
49.           Full-time Staff from ZimTrade. The responsibilities of the ZMGS Team Leader and a
second staff person (both seconded from ZimTrade) will comprise the following:
*  promoting the ZMGS to small, medium and large firms (particular emphasis should be
placed on promoting the scheme to two groups of firms -- high potential indigenous firms;
and established, larger firms assessed as having the highest potential for international
competitiveness);
*  visiting the facilities of all applicants for matching grant support;
+  working jointly with firms who so desire on the preparation of a qualifying plan for matching
grant support (with the assistance of the specialist management contracting team, as
necessary);
*  (for the ZMGS Team Leader) approving jointly with a Technical Adviser all applications for
matching grant support of under US$30,000, approving jointly with a Technical Adviser and
the ZimTrade chief executive all applications for US$30-50,000, and (together with a
Technical Adviser) making recommendations to the Steering Team or its designated
representative for all applications in excess of US$50,000;
*  establishing arrangements for making matching grant payments to service providers,
(together with the EDP Administrative Secretariat) ensuring that these payments are made,
and are in conformance with the criteria established for participation in the ZMGS;



- 47 -                                     Annex A
Business Services Component
* ensuring that the deliverables specified by firms in their applications are indeed completed as
intended; and
* evaluating annually the subsequent performance of firms supported by the ZMGS.
50.           Specialist Management Contracting Services. The firm  responsible for providing
these specialist services will be appointed by the Steering Team for an initial period on the basis of a
competitive bid. The winning contractor could be an international firm, a Zimbabwean firm, or a joint
international-Zimbabwean bid. Key qualifications would include:
* a demonstrated track record of the contracting firm (and its designated staff) in working with
firms to prepare programs for enhancing competitiveness and productivity;
* a diverse roster of consultants capable of providing high-level specialist advice to firms
across a varied array of subsectors; and
* intimate knowledge of the range of business support services available in the international
marketplace, and the ability to help Zimbabwean firms tap into that network.
It would also be desirable if the winning bidder included on its team be an individual with prior
experience in managing an export-oriented matching grant scheme.
III. Facilitating Export-Oriented Foreign-Domestic Enterprise Collaboration Through
Matchmaking
A. Objective
51.            The objective of the sub-component is to build Zimbabwean firms' export capability by
facilitating export-oriented enterprise collaboration between small and medium local and foreign partners
through a private matchmaking scheme. The foreign partners will bring a package of external market
access and production know-how with or without investment finance.
B. Rationale
52.            Package of Factors Including Market Access.  In light of the early stage of
Zimbabwe's manufactured export development, one effective way to deal with local potential exporters'
lack of: (i) access to the external market network and market information for export products; (ii) access
to exportable production know-how; and (iii) access to the external market network and information on
input sourcing is to promote export-oriented foreign enterprise collaboration in diversified forms. These
collaborations provide a package of (i)-(iii) and offer the best opportunities for local partners through
immediate entry into the world market as well as acquisition of skills in these areas.
53.           Resolving Imperfect Information Issues. An earlier World Bank study4 of both the
demand and supply sides of export-oriented inter-firm collaboration confirmed that foreign collaborators'
lack of interest in collaboration with local firms in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) stems primarily from
severe imperfect information on export-oriented collaboration opportunities and negative images.
See Yung Whee Rhee and Therese Belot, Export Catalysts in Low-income Countries: A Review of Eleven Success Stories, World
Bank Discussion Papers #72, The World Bank. 1990.



- 48 -                                   Annex A
Business Services Component
54.           This program would ease imperfect information issues that exist in potential supply
countries by giving incentives to private intermediaries to use their existing information networks to
bring together foreign export-oriented and local manufacturers in formal collaborations such as
international subcontracting agreements (SC), technical and/or marketing agreements (T/MA), joint
ventures (JV) and foreign direct investment (FDI), and licensing agreements (LA).
55.           Matchmaker Activities.  The activities of a private matchmaker would include
identification of potential foreign collaborators, brokering information on business opportunities in the
recipient country, and use of their information network in the latter country to link foreign collaborators
with potential local partners to the extent that the matchmakers have developed such a local network.
C. Structure of Private Matchmaker Fee and Incentives
1. Performance-based Matchmaking Fee Payments
56.           The basic principles used in designing the matchmaking mechanism are:
(i)   the matchmaking fe>e w,ill be collatoration contract performance-based; and
(ii)    matchmaking fee paymnents will bc shared between:
(a)   the Matchmaking Fund (MMF) established under the sub-project;
(b)    foreign partner; and
(c)    a local partner.
57.           The criteria for determining the level and timing of (a) would be:
(i)    transparency of contract performance indicators;
(ii)   safeguard of contract implementation;
(iii)  relative simplicity of administering the scheme;
(iv)   sufficient incentives for the matchmaker; and
(v)    willingness of the local and foreign partners to pay for matchmaker services.
2. Implementation of Matchmaking Fee Payments
58.           Matchmaker Payment Preference. In an earlier empirical investigation of foreign/
domestic collaboration mechanisms, potential matchmakers expressed a preference for a success fee in
proportion to the collaboration contract value at the time of contract agreement, as opposed to a fee in
proportion to actual export eamings.
59.           Collaborator's Payment Preference.  In contrast to the matchmakers' stated
preferences, local and foreign collaborators would be willing to pay a matchmaker fee in proportion to
actual export earnings once these have been realized, since actual export earnings ultimately determine
the extent to which the local and the foreign partners are better off because of the matchmaker's
intermediation.
60.           Two-stage Payment. In order to accommodate the conflicting preferences indicated
above, a two-stage payment would be used:



- 49 -                                           Annex A
Business Services Component
Installment l:   A  specified percentage of the projected collaboration contract value contingent upon
project implementation, paid from the MMF (50%) and by the foreign and local partner
(25% each); and
Installment II:  A specified percentage (in accordance with that specified in Chart Al) of actual export
eamnings paid annually for a specified time period by the local and foreign collaborator
Chart Al indicates the levels and timing of the matchmaking fee for different eligible forms of
foreign/domestic collaboration. Note that, to safeguard against problems of moral hazard, there will be no
Installment I for intemational subcontracting arrangements supported by the MMF. For this form of
collaboration, MMF payments would be made only at the Installment 11 stage.
Chart Al: Levels and Timing of Performance-Based Matchmaking Fee for
Eligible Forms of Foreign Domestic Collaboration
JV or 100% FDI           Technical/Marketing             International
Agreement (T/MA) or           Subcontract (SC)
Licensing Agreement (LA)
Installment I             1% of collaboration       20% of estimated annual       N.A.
contract value up to     collaboration contract value up
US$50.000                to US$50,000
Installment 11            1% annually of actual     1% of actual annual export    1% of actual annual export
export earnings for      earnings for specified number   earnings for a specified
specified number of years   of years                   number of years, with a
maximum of US$50,000
provided by the MMF.
Contract Implementation   Deposit of local and      Start of training in local    Arrival at local factory of
Verification Criteria     foreigners equity shares in  factory and/or start of    raw materials/intermediate
local bank               marketing activities under    inputs for local processing
T/MA; and transfer of        under the SC agreement
technology/training under LA
Definition of Export      Actual annual export      Actual annual export earnings    Actual annual export
Earnings                  earnings (gross foreign   (gross foreign exchange       earnings (gross foreign
exchange earnings)       earnings) resulting from      exchange earnings)
resulting from           collaboration                 resulting from
collaboration                                          collaboration
Definition of             Actual investment         Estimated royalty payments    Estimated value of SC
Collaboration Contract    value/actual project cost   (usually defined as percentage   orders/sales
Value                                               of export earnings during
contract period)
Responsibility for        Installment I: MMF 50%,  Installment 1: MMF 50%.
Payment                   local and foreign partner   local and foreign partner each
each 25%                 25%
Installment I: Local and   Installment I: Local and  Installment 11: Local and
foreign partners in equal   foreign partners in equal  foreign partners in equal
amounts                  amounts                       amounts



- 50-                                    Annex A
Business Services Component
61.           The MM Management Contractor will monitor project implementation and calculate the
level and timing of Installment payment I accordingly, on the basis of explicit criteria. In turn, the 20%
share of Installment I and all of Installment 11 will be made by the parties to the collaboration contract
according to a private, three-way contractual agreement (i.e., between the Matchmaker, the foreign and
the local collaborator). While no 'model contracts' will be imposed for Installment 11, the scheme's
administration should insist that the private parties to the agreement incorporate into their formal
agreement the contract performance indicators in Chart Al. While the MMF will not guarantee
Installment 11, as a measure to build the Matchmaker's confidence that Installment 11 will be made, the
scheme's administration should maintain an information base (built around reports provided by the
Zimbabwean firm and its foreign collaborator) on the subsequent course of private collaboration
agreements "catalyzed" by the MMF.
62.           Safeguard Against Moral Hazard. In order to safeguard against moral hazard (i.e., the
Matchmaker's moral hazard in the case of a 'free ride' or the foreign/domestic collaborator's moral
hazard in the case of failure of contract implementation), Installment I will not be made unless the
scheme's Manager can verify that: (i) the collaboration has been mainly based on the Matchmaker's
efforts; (ii) the contract has been implemented.  Moral hazard on the part the foreign/ domestic
collaborators can also be prevented through their 50% contribution to Installment 1.
63.           Transparency of Fee Structure. Transparency of the matchmaking fee structure will
be critical in inducing potential matchmakers to participate in the scheme. The first step to ensure
transparency would be to clearly define the critical parameters determining the fee (export earnings,
collaboration contract value, implementation verification) (see Chart Al).
64.           Limit on MMF Matching Grant. In order to accommodate a maximum number of
collaborations given limited resources, the maximum amount of matching grant from the MMF would be
set at US$50,000 for any one collaboration contract.
65.           Advance on Performance-based Matchmaker Fee.  The MMF is designed as a
performance-based initiative, so in general no advances on performance-based fees will be provided.
Under exceptional circumstances, though, it may be helpful for the MMF to advance from Installment I
the costs of selected (i.e., pre-screened) potential matchmakers on an initial all-expenses-paid
information mission to Zimbabwe. Thereafter the costs of the Matchmaker's travel expenses associated
with their subsequent inward foreign collaborator missions could be shared between the MMF and the
Matchmaker. The levels and timing of advances depend on proposals the Matchmaker will submit,
detailing the expected collaboration contracts they will bring, as well as estimated collaboration contract
value and projected export eamings. Should the Matchmakers' intermediation be successful and a
collaboration agreement be made, then the advance would be subtracted from the fund's payment of
Installment I to the Matchmaker. Should a collaboration contract not materialize, however, matchmakers
will not be expected to reimburse the fund. Over the lifetime of the MMF, no more than US$50,000
should be disbursed as advances to support the travel costs of either matchmakers or their potential
foreign collaborators (see below).
66.           The ability of a Matchmaker to induce potential foreign collaborators to make
exploratory visits to Zimbabwe before committing to any formal collaboration agreements may also
depend on assistance from the MMF. Potential foreign collaborators may be willing to participate in
inward missions only if their expenses associated with project and local collaborator search costs can be
shared. The MMF could offer matching grants regarding travel and local expenses not automatically, but
should the need arise.



-51-                                         AnnexA
Business Services Component
D. Eligibility of Collaboration Forms, Sectors, and Supply Sources
67.            Chart A2 below provides a summary of the framework for eligibility, sectors and supply
sources:
Chart A2: Eligibility of Collaboration Forms, Sectors. and Supply Sources
Variable                Guideline
Eligible Foreign-domestic  *  Joint Ventures
Collaboration Forms     *   100% Foreign Direct Investment (special case of foreign-domestic collaboration)
*  Technical and/or Marketing Agreements and Licensing Agreements
*  International Subcontracting Agreements
Eligible Manufacturing    Without any intention of 'targeting', the following sectors are initially selected for
Subsectors for Foreign-    eligibility in the matchmaking scheme because: (i) foreign export-oriented collaboration is
domestic Collaboration    currently not taking place spontaneously in these sectors; (ii) there are currently no or
negligible exports in these subsectors; and (iii) foreign/domestic collaboration agreements
are pervasive in these subsectors for successful export activities:
*      garments
a      textiles
a      footwear
-      leather
*      luggage
*      fumiture
e      processed food
*      toys
*      sports goods
*      engineering goods
*      electronics
*      tourism
Eligible Foreign        Scheme's initial focus is on attracting foreign collaborators from outside the region
Collaboration Supply    because the objective is to enable local manufacturers to acquire skills not yet available in
Sources                 the sub-region and other SSA countries.
MMF Administration      Administration of the MMF would imply the following major tasks:
Tasks
*  Advertising the Scheme. Advertisements providing general information about the
scheme would be placed periodically in relevant publications (e.g., newspapers,
business association publications) in Zimbabwe and foreign collaboration supply
countries. Brochures describing the scheme in more detail and explaining the 'rules'
of participation would then be provided to those potential matchmakers signaling
interest in the scheme.
*  Pre-screening. Matchmakers will be required to submit proposals before starting any
intermediation in order to qualify for any payments from the MMF. This may reduce
the risk of the MMF paying for collaboration activities that were already occurring
without the incentives offered under the matchmaking scheme.
*  Substitution for Private Local Matchmakers. In the case that foreign matchmakers do
not have the same developed information network that they would have to identify
potential foreign collaborators, it would be critical that the MM Management
Contractor identify local partners in a pro-active manner.
* Coordination of Inward Missions of Potential Foreign Collaborators. Should foreign
matchmakers not have sufficient information on Zimbabwe's investment and
collaboration environment, the MM Management Contractor would be responsible for
designing a program to introduce foreign matchmakers to collaboration opportunities



- 52 -                                       Annex A
Business Services Component
and business environment in Zimbabwe. While the actual execution of inward
missions would be the primary responsibility of the private matchmaker, the MM
Management Contractor could, as needed, closely collaborate with the matchmaker to
arrange meetings and promotional activities (i.e. with ZimTrade and ZIC).
*  Monitoring of Collaboration Project Implementation. In order to determine level and
timing of Installment 1, the MMF administration would have to verify actual project
implementation (see Chart AI).
*  Monitoring of the Scheme's Effectiveness. Implemented projects should be formally
monitored for the period of the scheme in order to determine its effectiveness. This
task would also imply writing periodic reports to be submitted to the oversight
committee on experience with the scheme and formulation of recommendations
should policy changes be necessary.
Institutional Location'  The scheme would be run by a MM Management Contractor who would be housed in a
Affiliation             location set up for the exclusive use of the Project.
Cooperation between ZIC   The scheme's Manager would be able to liaise with ZimTrade staff and use the
and ZimTrade            institutional resources ZimTrade can provide. The Manager would coordinate activities
with ZIC through designated counterparts such as the Assistant Director of Marketing and
the staff responsible for ZIC's existing database on local joint venture partners.
Oversight               The oversight for the scheme would be carried out by the MM Management Contractor
supported by a management contract, assisted by a Technical Adviser, and reporting to the
Steering Team. Since agreement that a MM can participate/enroll in the program in
principle commits the MMF to pay up to US$50,000 should the matchmaker perform as
outlined above, all applications to enroll as a matchmaker in the program will need the
approval of the Steering Team or its designated representative.
68.            MMF Period and Estimated Total Costs. The program would be supported for a three
year period, after which it is expected that foreign/domestic collaboration activities in Zimbabwe will
occur spontaneously. The cost of operating the scheme would be US$1.7 million, of which US$1.5
million is for the MMF and US$0.2 million is for the full-time MM Management Contractor. An
estimated total of 40 collaboration cases could be supported.



- 53 -                                  Annex B
Finance Component
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finance Component
I.           Introduction. The objectives of the Finance Component are to increase-the supply of
term funds available to Small and Medium enterprises (SMEs) as well as the supply of pre- and post-
shipment financing for emerging exporters. Guarantee facilities aim to reduce some of the risk of
subborrowers in these markets. The hope is that by alleviating the financial constraint to these
enterprises, many can grow on a sustainable basis and thus broaden participation and generate
employment.
I. SME Finance Facility (SME Finance Fund)
2.           Introduction and Objective. Financial services and, in particular, capital in the form of
loans, are severely limited to SMEs in Zimbabwe. More specifically, uncertainty and the term structure
of interest rates has led to limited and prohibitively priced medium-term financing options for financial
institutions to fund the investment and permanent working capital needs of their customers. Other
factors beyond this project's scope that have contributed to constraints on institutional finance include a
decline in financial institution lending to the private sector reflecting limited aggregate demand for credit
due to high interest rates and higher risk free returns on GOZ Treasury Bills and other money market
instruments. A lack of institutional capability in the formal financial sector to adequately assess SME
projects has also limited credit and is being addressed elsewhere in this project.
3.           The objective of the SME Finance Fund is to increase the supply of term funding at
market rates available to and bank and non-bank financial institutions in order to finance the demands of
emerging SMEs. The aim is to help to accelerate the activities already initiated by several banks and
non-banks and, potentially, NGOs to deliver financial services to SMEs on a commercially-viable basis.
This component would provide US$25 million equivalent in sub-loans which would mobilize
approximately US$31.3 million including sub-borrower contributions.
4.           Eligible Borrowers. Definitions of SMEs in Zimbabwe are difficult to discern since the
labor and capital intensity of enterprises varies so widely. The classification of SMEs made by Small
Business Units of Zimbabwean commercial banks varies from less than 20 employees to less than 150.
Some credit lines also differentiate SMEs by net asset size or turnover, each of which has its limitations.
Eligible borrowers under this project would include companies with up to 50 employees and with up to
US$200,000 in net assets. Sub-loans would be made in Zim$ up to a size limit of US$75,000 equivalent.
While this limit would be specified at project initiation, the Steering Team, could in consultation with
IDA, modify the credit ceiling at a later date. Under the assumption that the average SME credit would
be US$50,000, the sub-component amount of US$25 million would finance approximately 500 new SME
borrowers over a four-year period.
5.           Operational Guidelines.  Below  is a summary of the SME Finance Facility's
operational guidelines:



- 54 -                                        Annex B
Finance Component
Chart B1: SME Finance Fund - Operational Guidelines
Operating Characteristic  Definition
Fee Received by Apex for   0.5% per annum of the average outstanding balance of sub-loans. This applies to both SME
Fund Administration      Finance and Export Finance Funds.
Interest Rate Charged by    Average cost of funds of commercial banks, as determined by a quarterly rolling average,
Apex to PFls             computed by the RBZ and announced and repriced quarterly. All outstanding balances
would be reprised. Repricing from PFIs to subborrowers should reflect the same timing and
repricing mechanism.
Interest Rate Charged by    PFIs would be fully free to charge a rate commensurate with the costs and risks of sub-loans.
PFIs to subborrowers
Currency ofSub-loans     Commitments, disbursements and repayments in Zim$. Withdrawal applications from the
Special Account would be made in the US$ equivalent of the Zim$ amount.
Maturity of Sub-loans    Funds could be used for permanent working capital, i.e. a net medium-term increase in the core
working capital need, as well as for investments. The PFI would be required to onlend at the
same maturity as funds lent from the Apex. The maximum maturity would be limited to five
years. The minimum maturity suggested would be one year.
Grace Period             A grace period of up to 18 months could be provided to the subproject upon the approval by
the Apex. The grace period (principal only) would be matched by the sub-loan between the
PFI and the SME.
Maximum Sub-loan Size    US$75,000 equivalent, subject to periodic change as necessawy by the Steering Team in
consultation with IDA.
Maximum Borrower Firm    Maximum 50 employees and US$200,000 in net assets (Total Assets of the firm, excluding
Size                     land, adjusted by depreciation), subject to periodic change as necessary by the Steering Team,
in consultation with IDA.
Amount of Sub-loan Re-    100% of the sub-loan amount.
financed by Apex
Minimum Contribution by   As determined by the financial intermediary, but, at a minimum, at least 20% of the subproject
Sub-Borrower             cost.
Application Requirements   Application to Apex would be a summary formn providing data on the name, size and sector of
the firm and nature of the sub-project, level of financing and the names of principals. Detailed
financial project data would not be included. Applications from the PFI to the SME would be
at the discretion of the PFI.
Eligible Sectors         All sectors. Mortgage lending and real estate purchases would not be eligible.
Eligible &penditures     Refinancing existing sub-loans would not be eligible. Borrowers with non-performing loans in
any PFI could not be granted initial or additional loans under the project.
Autonomous Free Limits    Because of the limits in sub-loan size, all projects could be approved by the Apex. Reviews
by IDA would be on an ex-post basis.
Audit Requirements       *  Fund Project Account audited annually;
*   PFIs must submit audits annually to the Apex and IDA
*   Statement of Expenditures of PFIs subject to random export audits; and
*   Random ex-post reviews conducted to individual sub-loans indicating compliance with
procurement and disbursement requirements.-
Procurement              Procurement according to IDA guidelines is the responsibility of the PFI.



-55 -                                         Annex B
Finance Component
Disbursement            In accordance with the submission of subproject documentation (kept by the PFI) and a
Statement of Expenditure submitted by the PFI to the Apex.
Sub-Project              Each sub-project would be required to submit a project summary containing, at a minimum,
Documentation           the following information: (i) Name and address of borrower; (ii) sector of firm; (iii)
number of employees; (iv) audited financial statements or affidavit that total assets do not
exceed the ceiling; (v) description of financing and subproject; and (vi) a maturity and term
of financing.
11. SME Credit Guarantee Facility (SME Credit Guarantee Fund)
6.             Rationale and Objectives.  The purpose of the SME Credit Guarantee Fund is to
encourage financial institutions to lend to entrepreneurs with viable projects and good prospects of
success but whose perceived risk is greater than their actual risk because the borrowers are unable to
provide adequate collateral or do not have a suitable credit history to prove that they are creditworthy.
This responds to an identified need for a support mechanism to overcome this obstacle. Thus, the
Guarantee Fund is intended to assist in increasing formal-sector financing to SMEs. The design is
intended to encourage financial institution lending by mitigating some of the credit risk on guaranteed
loans. The scheme's design is intended to be simple enough so that participation does not add materially
to a financial institution's transaction costs, create uncertainty through the reimbursement mechanism,
nor create too large a burden to the SME through the commission charged.
7.             Operational Guidelines. Below is a summary of the SME Credit Guarantee Facility's
operational guidelines:
Chart B2: SME Credit Guarantee Facility - Operational Guidelines
Variable         Guideline
Eligibility      *  In principle, all sub-loans financed under the SME Finance Facility would be eligible for
coverage by the SME Credit Guarantee, except as stipulated in the restrictions below. Neither
sub-loans nor guarantees would be provided to refinance any portion of a PFI's existing exposure
to a borrower.
*  Guarantee approval would be the responsibility of PFIs, subject to subsequent approval of the
CGA.
Documentation    PFIs must provide a statement of prior and existing exposure to a borrower and must attest that the
Requirements     guarantee would apply only to incremental (increased) loans to an existing client or initial loans to
new clients. The PFI would provide the Credit Guarantee Agency (CGA) with a summary of the
transaction on a form (not exceeding 2 pages), which would give details on the borrower, the
transaction (amount, terms, conditions and maturity) and the amount of guarantee requested. This
form should also detail the PFI's past and existing relationship with the client. The CGA would check
for client and loan eligibility.
Risk Coverage -   The Guarantee fund would cover 50% of the credit risk for the outstanding principal of covered SME
Safeguard        sub-loans. Once an individual PFI's losses of loans guaranteed under the program have exceeded
Provisions       15%, new loans would be guaranteed at a rate of 25%. No additional loans would be guaranteed if a
PFI's loss rate on guaranteed loans exceeds 40%. PFIs that lose their eligibility can regain full
coverage only by collecting enough of the defaulted loan balances to reduce their default ratio below
15% or 40%, respectively. The use of write-offs or refinancing to achieve the 15% target would be
prohibited and reviewed by the CGA.
Credit           The Guarantee would be administered by the CGA, in association with the Apex. The responsibilities
Guarantee        of the CGA would be:
Administration    *  Receive and review documentation on loans guaranteed by it;
*   Verifying the eligibility of the PFI and sub-project. Initial documentation should include a
history the PFI's credit relationship with the borrower and a certification that the loan to be



- 56 -                                        Annex B
Finance Component
guaranteed is not a refinancing of existing or past credit';
*  Receive and review quarterly reports from PFIs;
*   Inquire about efforts to collect or bring current, past due loans.
*  Review requests for exercise of the guarantee, verify the eligibility of the request and assure that
prudent banking practices have been followed in disbursing, administering and attempting to
collect the loan.
*   Facilitate reimbursement for approved guarantee claims, optimally within 30 days of receipt of a
request for guarantee execution.
*  Encourage PFIs to make every recovery effort possible for sub-loan repayment.
Guarantee        PFI's would be required to report quarterly to the CGA on the status of all loans made under the
Execution        Project. Special note would be given to loans 30 days or more past due and efforts to collect them in
the normal course of business would be detailed. Once a loan is 90 days past due, interest accruals
should cease. Once litigation has been initiated, a request to execute the guarantee should be made to
the CGA. The agreement with the PFI's should stipulate that the PFI can receive a 60% share of any
recoveries made by its efforts in litigation or through other means after guarantee execution, including
seizure and disposal of any collateral, excluding cash. Any cash collateral should be applied to the
outstanding balance before any amount is paid under the guarantee. A request to the CGA for
payment under the guarantee should be paid within 30 days of its receipt. Certified copies of all
documentation related to the loan should be forwarded from the PFI to the CGA. Post execution
collection efforts would be distributed between the CGA and the PFI including the share to which
each is entitled of any sums collected.
Premia Rate and   Each PFI would pay the CGA a three percent fee on the guaranteed portion of its portfolio, subject to
Calculation      review by the Steering Team in consultation with IDA. This fee would be paid once, up front, on the
level of funds to be guaranteed. The fee could be passed along to the borrower.
Audit            The CGA would require annual audit reports verifying that guaranteed loans were not used to
Requirements    refinance existing client debt. Annual audits would be conducted on the project account, including
the account of the SME Credit Guarantee Fund. In this context, it is expected that: (i) the CGA
would keep separate accounts for each sub-borrower; and (ii) auditors would conduct select and
random reviews of subprojects to validate compliance with the terms and conditions of subprojects.
8.             Guarantee Fund Cash Flow Projections. Table BI below provides sensitivity analysis
as to the impact of various levels of default on the levels of losses to the SME Credit Guarantee Fund as
well as estimates the level of sub-loan reflows which would need to be channeled into such a fund based
on different loan loss scenarios. It is important to note that the 3.0% premium can only cover a loan loss
level of 7.0% (with 50% coverage). More likely, a 10% loan loss level (10% of new loans made go into
default, not 10% of the annual portfolio guaranteed) would result in US$0.6 million being diverted from
sub-loan recoveries into the Guarantee Fund. If it proves that the loss experience is greater than
expected resulting in an unforeseen drawdown of the funds, the Steering Team would be charged with
modifying the coverage and/or the premium, in consultation with IDA On the other hand, to the degree
that funds accumulate from premium revenues, these funds can be reallocated to the SME Finance Fund
as necessary. Because this intervention is aimed at providing a temporary inducement for financial
institutions to lend until such time as they have the understanding and capability to do so on their own,
the intent of the guarantee fund is to be time-bound.
Table B1: Cash Flow Projections for the SME Credit Guarantee Fund
(US$ Millions)
Scenario 1: 2.0% Default
Assumptions:
Annual Rate of Default                       2.0%
Total SME Onlending Covered by Guarantee     25.0
Premium Paid into Fund                       3.0%
Given the overlap of information requirements between the CGA and the Apex, the sub-project summary form for financing would also
be submitted to the CGA.



- 57 -                                          Annex B
Finance Component
Average Loan Maturity (Years)                    4.0
Rate of Coverage                                50%
Financial Projections                        Year 1   Year 2  Year    Year 4   Year 5   Year   Year 7  Total
SME Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-Beg. of Period)       0.1     0.4     0.7       0.8     1.0    1.2
Capital Injection from Reflows
Premiums Received                              0.08    0.32    0.39    0.24       0.19    0.19    0.19
Amount Paid Out on Claims                              -0.03   -0.11    -0.13    -0.08   -0.06   -0.06
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)       0.00    0.01     0.03    0.03      0.04    0.04    0.05
Fund Balance (End of Period)                    0.08      0.4     0.7     0.8       1.0     1.2    1.3
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                     2.5    12.5    22.6      25.3    25.5   25.8
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                  2.5    10.0    10.0      2.5
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (1% in USS)   0.0     0.0      0.1     0.2       0.2     0.3    0.3
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                 2.5    12.5    22.6    25.3       25.5    25.8   26.0
New Loans                                        2.5    10.6    13.1      8.2       6.3     6.4    6.4
Scenario 2: 7.0% Default (Breakeven for SME Credit Guarantee Fund)
Financial Projections                        Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
SME Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-Beg. of Period)       0.1     0.3     0.4       0.1     0.1    0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows
Premiums Received                              0.08    0.32    0.39    0.24       0.19    0.19    0.19
Amount Paid Out on Claims                              -0.09   -0.37   -0.46     -0.29   -0.22   -0.22
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)       0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01       0.00    0.00
Fund Balance (End of Period)                    0.08      0.3     0.4     0.1       0.1     0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                     2.5    12.5    22.6      25.3    25.5   25.8
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                  2.5    10.0    10.0      2.5
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (1% in US$)   0.0     0.0      0.1     0.2       0.2     0.3    0.3
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                 2.5    12.5    22.6    25.3       25.5    25.8   26.0
New Loans                                        2.5    10.6    13.1      8.2       6.3     6.4    6.4
Scenario 3: 10.0% Default
Financial Projections                        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3  Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
SME Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-Beg. of Period)       0.1     0.3     0.2       0.0     0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows                                           0.3       0.2     0.1
Premiums Received                               0.1     0.3      0.4     0.2       0.2     0.2    0.2
Amount Paid Out on Claims                               -0.1    -0.5    -0.7      -0.4    -0.3   -0.3
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Fund Balance (End of Period)                     0.1      0.3     0.2     0.0       0.0            -0.1
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                     2.5    12.5    22.6      25.0    25.0   25.2
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                  2.5    10.0    10.0      2.5
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (1% in USS)   0.0     0.0      0.1     0.2       0.2     0.2    0.3
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund                           -0.3      -0.2    -0.1            0.6
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                 2.5    12.5    22.6    25.0       25.0    25.2   25.4
New Loans                                        2.5    10.6    13.1      8.2       6.2     6.3    6.3
Scenario 4: 15.0% Default
Financial Projections                        Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
SME Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-Beg. of Period)       0.1     0.2     0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows                                   0.2     0.7       0.5     0.2    0.3
Premiums Received                               0.1     0.3      0.4     0.2       0.2     0.2    0.2
Amount Paid Out on Claims                               -0.2    -0.8    -1.0      -0.6    -0.5   -0.5
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)        0.0     0.0      0.0               0.0             0.0
Fund Balance (End of Period)                     0.1      0.2     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                     2.5    12.5    22.4      24.4    24.1   24.2
New Disbursements from IDA (S)                  2.5    10.0    10.0      2.5
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (1% in USS)   0.0     0.0      0.1     0.2       0.2     0.2    0.2
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund                   -0.2    -0.7      -0.5    -0.2   -0.3    1.9
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                 2.5    12.5    22.4    24.4       24.1    24.2   24.1



- 58 -                                            Annex B
Finance Component
New Loans                                          2.5    10.6    13.1      8.1       6.1      6.0    6.0
Scenario 5:25.0% Default 1/
Financial Projections                         Year 1   Year 2   Year    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
SME Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-Beg. of Period)        0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0    0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows                                     0.9      0.5      0.3      0.2    0.2
Premiums Received                                0.1      0.3      0.4      0.2      0.2      0.2    0.2
Amount Paid Out on Claims 1/                              -0.3    -1.3    -0.8      -0.5    -0.4   -0.4
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.0      0.0      0.0
Fund Balance (End of Period)                       0.1     0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                      2.5    12.5    21.7       23.9    23.8   23.8
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                   2.5    10.0    10.0       2.5
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (1% in US$)    0.0      0.0      0.1     0.2       0.2      0.2    0.2
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund                     -0.9    -0.5      -0.3    -0.2   -0.2    2.1
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   2.5    12.5    21.7    23.9       23.8    23.8   23.9
New Loans                                          2.5    10.6    13.1       7.9      6.0      5.9    6.0
1/ Assumes that 15% Default Rate on Existing Loans Not Reached until End-Year 2.
Scenario 6: 50.0% Default 2/
Financial Projections                         Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
SME Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-Beg. of Period)        0.1      0.0      0.0      0.3      0.5    0.7
Capital Injection from Reflows                            0.2      1.0
Premiums Received                                0.1      0.3      0.4     0.2       0.2      0.2    0.2
Amount Paid Out on Claims 1/                              -0.6    -1.3
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.0               0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0
Fund Balance (End of Period)                       0.1     0.0      0.0      0.3      0.5      0.7    0.9
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                      2.5    12.3    21.4       24.1    24.3   24.5
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                   2.5    10.0    10.0        2.5
Interest Rec. on Onlent Funds (1% in US$)        0.0      0.0      0.1     0.2       0.2      0.2    0.2
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund            -0.2    -1.0                                        1.2
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   2.5    12.3    21.4    24.1       24.3    24.5   24.8
New Loans                                          2.5    10.6    13.1       7.8      6.0      6.1    6.1
2/ Assumes that 15% Default Rate on Existing Loans Not Reached until End-Year 1 and
50% default on Existing Loans Not Reached until End-Year 2.
lII. Export Finance Facility (Export Finance Fund)
9.               Introduction and Objective. The objective of the Export Finance Fund is to respond to
a foreign currency supply constraint by financing the pre- and post-shipment working capital needs of
emerging direct and (manufacturing) indirect exporters. The Project would finance exports of emerging
enterprises through a foreign currency pre- and post-shipment export finance revolving fund (Export
Finance Fund). The pre- and post-shipment export financing would be implemented as an integrated
product with the Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee indicated in Section IV below.
10.              The rationale behind providing this export financing is to mitigate a funding supply
constraint identified. This constraint emanates from a practice whereby foreign banks have generally
supplied off-shore credit lines to local financial institutions with the understanding that the loans are
exclusively for well-established companies as well as within the Zimbabwe country risk limit). As such,
only well-established exporters have had access to funds supplied to financial institutions from these
foreign sources. By sourcing funds to these institutions at their average cost of funds, the aim is to avoid
replacing existing US$ financing. In the same vein, the disbursement mechanism should be efficient and
streamlined in order to be competitive with existing mechanisms based on these off-shore credit lines.
11.              Access to post-shipment finance by direct exporters generally is handled mainly through
post-shipment finance mechanisms such as bankers' acceptance (BA) discounting or completed export



-59-                                          AnnexB
Finance Component
bill (backed by the export credit insurance or guarantee) discounting at local banks and rediscounting
based on off-shore credit lines except for those exporters who cannot access such post-shipment finance.
Yet emerging exporters with access difficulties for pre-shipment financing often have similar difficulties
for post-shipment finance, even when the post-shipment period is backed by a confirmed letter of credit.
As such, this project would provide for selective support of these enterprises. In order to ultimately
include all indirect exporters currently excluded from the foreign currency export loans, it is hoped that
in the medium-term a back-to-back domestic L/C system would be introduced.
12.            Operational Guidelines.  Below  is a summary of the Export Finance Facility's
operational guidelines:
Chart B3: Export Finance Facility - Operational Guidelines
Operating        Definition
Characteristic
Fee Received by   0.5% per annum of the average outstanding balance of sub-loans.
Apexfor Fund
Administration
Interest Rate    Average cost of US$ funding of commercial and merchant banks from offshore sources as determined
Charged by       by a quarterly rolling average, computed by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ), announced and
Apex to PFIs    repriced quarterly on all balances. Repricing from PFIs to subborrowers should reflect the same
repricing mechanism. Currently, the ceiling established by the Reserve Bank for off-shore credit lines
for export loans is LIBOR + 0.875%, which would be the initial rate charged on funds. This rate
would be subject to change by the Steering Team in accordance with changes in market conditions.
Interest Rate -  PFIs would be fully free to charge a rate commensurate with the costs and risks of sub-loans.
PFIs to
subborrowers
Currency of Sub-  Commitments, disbursements and repayments would be denominated in US$. Cash payments by the
loans            sub-borrower could be made in the Zim$ equivalent to the US$ balance payable.
Maturity of Sub-   *   The maturity of the sub-loan and the exporter's Promissory Note would be from the time of
loans                drawdown of the sub-loan to the time of the sight export L/C negotiation (or post-shipment
export bill maturity);
*   Maximum preshipment export finance maturity: 6 months;
*   Maximum postshipment export finance: 120 days.
*  The PFI would be required to onlend at the same maturity as funds lent from the Apex.
Maximum Sub-    US$150,000 equivalent, subject to periodic change as necessary by the Steering Team in consultation
loan Size        with IDA.
Maximum          Maximum 100 employees and US$500,000 in net assets subject to periodic change as necessary by the
Borrower Firm    Steering Team, in consultation with IDA.
Size
Amount of Sub-   100% of the sub-loan amount.
loan Re-financed
by Apex
Minimum          *   Exporter must contribute at least 20% of the total financing from his or her own resources. This
Contribution by     is in order to minimize potential moral hazard and secure financial commitment;
Sub-Borrower     *  The size of any pre-shipment export loan should be no less than 70% nor more than 90% of the
amount of the export L/C, back-to-back domestic L/C value, or amount one export transaction
covered by the Export Finance Guarantee certificate;
*  The size of any post-shipment export loan should not be less than 70% nor more than 90% of the



- 60 -                                            AnnexB
Finance Component
post-shipment export bill.
Application       (i)  Confirmed export L/C, other export order backed by export credit insurance or domestic L/C
Requirements           created back-to-back based on the above export order to the benefit of the (manufacturing)
(Exporter)             indirect exporter;
(ii) Integrated application form for the export loan and the export finance guarantee (if the latter is
desired - See Guarantee Section IV below);
(iii) Post-shipment export finance application form (if post-shipment financing desired);
(iv) Export finance guarantee certificate issued by the CGA (if applicable); and
(v) Promissory Note in favor of the PFI drawn in US$ for the amount of loan required.
Exporters would be eligible for a loan for the subsequent export transaction before the preceding loan
has been fully liquidated, provided the next sub-loan meets the above eligibility and documentary
requirements.
Potentially       *   Emerging direct and indirect (manufacturing) exporters unable to access existing foreign
Eligible              currency export loans of commercial and merchant banks with net assets up to US$500,000 and
Subproject            employing up to 100 people, subject to modification by the Steering Team in consultation with
Borrowers             IDA.
*   Exporters (subject to the size limit above) unable to access post-shipment export bill discounting
at local banks and rediscounting at foreign banks after completing shipments supported by the
Export Finance Fund-based sub-loans. Post-shipment financing would take the form of export
bill rediscounting by rolling over the pre-shipment export loan after completion of the export any
payment of the pre-shipment sub-loan.
Documentary       *   Summary loan application, including information on the exporter, size of export and purpose of
Requirements          financing.
(From financial    *   A financial intermediary's Promissory Note written in US$ for the amount of the sub-loan (the
intermediary to       maturity of Fl's Promissory Note would be identical to that of exporter's Promissory Note stated
Apex)                 above);
*   Copies of the export L/C (or other export order) and the Export Finance Guarantee certificate;
and
*   As necessary, additional documentary requirements for accessing post-shipment export bill
rediscounting banker's acceptance or completed export bill and CDI.
Autonomous        Because of the limits in loan size, all projects could be approved by the Apex, independent of specific
Free Limits       authorization by IDA.
Audit             *   Fund Project Account audited annually;
Requirements      *   PFIs must submit audits annually;
*   Statement of Expenditures of PFIs subject to random export audits; and
*   Random  ex-post audits conducted  to  individual sub-loans indicating  compliance with
procurement and disbursement requirements.
Procurement       Procurement according to IDA guidelines is the exclusive responsibility of the PFI.
Disbursement      In accordance with the submission of subproject documentation (kept by the PFI) and a Statement of
Expenditure submitted by the PFI to the Apex.2
Re-payment        At the maturity of the exporter's Promissory Note and the financial intermediary's Promissory Note,
Mechanism         or the post-shipment export bill, the Project Account of the Export Finance Fund should receive the
Fl's debt repayments through an automatic repayment mechanism from the export proceeds or
account of the exporter or through the Export Finance Guarantee payment mechanism.
2       PFI export finance disbursement mechanisms that tie the loan disbursement to the payments to the overseas suppliers (through back-
to back import L/C negotiations) and the domestic suppliers (through the back-to-back domestic L/C negotiations) would be encouraged. The
PFI's risk-taking of the exporter's moral hazard could then be reduced to the remaining part of the loan (i.e. the value added part for which the
cash will be given to the exporter).



-61-                                     AnnexB
Finance Component
13.          Size and Impact of the Export Finance Fund. The size of the Export Finance Fund
would be US$35 million. Assuming that the Fund finances on average 80% of the export orders and the
average turnover is four months, total export generated would be US$131 million. Assuming that the
average financing is US$100,000 and one loan is provided per exporter, this means that 350 exporters
would be supported.
IV. Export Finance Guarantee Fund
14.          Introduction. The objective of the Export Finance Guarantee is to cover a portion of
emerging exporters' non-performance risk so in order to overcome a supply rigidity whereby the
perceived risk of these exporters is greater than the actual risk. This difference between actual and
perceived risks may come about because of: (i) the borrower has inadequate physical collateral (and the
bank is unaccustomed to making uncollateralized export finance transactions); (ii) the borrower has a
limited track record; and (iii) banks' reluctance to commit resources to conduct thorough credit
investigations of infant or small and medium size (SME) direct or indirect exporters for fear of losing the
up-front costs involved.
15.          Since 1991, Credsure (the Credit Insurance Zimbabwe Limited) has offered a Export
Finance Guarantee scheme that protects banks granting preshipment export finance against exporters'
manufacturing nonperformance risks, along with export credit insurance and guarantee schemes that
protect exporters and banks against foreign buyers' nonpayment risks. Despite the expected high
demand for the Export Finance Guarantee, Credsure had, at mid-1995, issued only three outstanding
Export Finance Guarantees. These Guarantee payments are 100% reinsured by the Government just as
political risk export credit insurance payments through the Reinsurance Committee based on the Export
Credit Reinsurance Act. The contingent liabilities associated with the political risk export credit
insurance policies alone at Credsure appear to be above international norms. There are three major
reasons for the negligible use to date of the existing Export Finance Guarantee: (i) the lack of a Fund that
can back up the contingent liabilities associated with any significantly expanded use of the Export
Finance Guarantee in a way separated from the Export Credit Reinsurance Fund. The latter primarily
covers contingent liabilities associated with the political risk coverage of the export credit insurance; (ii)
the commercial and merchant banks' reluctance to take 30% of SME or infant exporters' manufacturing
nonperformance risks or to put their resources for the credit investigations of these exporters; and (iii)
insufficient marketing of the guarantee scheme.
16.          Financing of the Export Finance Guarantee. The financing mechanism for the Export
Finance Guarantee would function as follows: (i) Premiums collected by the Apex would be deposited
into an interest-bearing account; (ii) payouts would be made from the same account; (iii) Recoveries
from the SME and Export Finance funds would, as necessary be transferred from the Project accounts
established for sub-loans to the project account established to backstop potential losses under the
guarantee. The mechanics of reimbursement would work as follows: (i) defaulting sub-loans would be
entitled to 80% reimbursement; (ii) once a sub-loan is confirmed by the CGA to be entitled to
compensation, the Apex would debit the Guarantee Fund account and credit the PFI's project account for
the compensated balance. This would effectively exonerate the PFI from repayment to the Reserve
Bank for 80% of the outstanding balance of the sub-loan respective, plus accrued interest.
17.          Operational Guidelines. Below is a summary of the Preshipment Export Finance
Guarantee Fund's operational guidelines:



- 62 -                                        AnnexB
Finance Component
Chart B4: Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee Fund - Operational Guidelines
Variable         Guidelines
Eligibility      *  In principle, all preshipment export sub-loans financed under the Export Finance Facility
would be eligible for coverage by the Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee, except as
stipulated in the restrictions below. Neither sub-loans nor guarantees would be provided to
refinance any portion of a PFI's existing exposure to a borrower.
*  Guarantee approval would be the responsibility of PFls, subject to subsequent approval of
the CGA.
Documentary      *  Confirmed export L/C, other export order backed by export credit insurance, or
requirements        (manufacturing) domestic L/C created on a back-to-back basis based on the above export
order;
*   Integrated application form for the sub-loan and the Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee'.
*   Integrated application forn submitted by PFI to CGA should be simple and the required
information should focus on the export transaction itself, rather than detailed financial
statements of the exporter.
Maximum          For a single turn-over of an export sub-loan, US$150,000.
Guarantee Size
Guarantee Risk   The CGA would cover 80% of the value of the export loan (and up to 90 days associated interest)
Coverage         default risks stemming from exporters' nonperformance
Premium Rate    A premium rate of 0. 15% would be charged on the monthly balance of the sub-loans outstanding
covered by the Guarantee. This is an annual equivalent of 1.8%.
Guarantee       As per the export finance sub-loan.
Maturity
Reporting        *  The financial intermediary's reporting requirements to the CGA would be: (i) the nature of
Requirement         the sub-loan; (ii) the guaranteed loan effective date; (iii) export completion date; (iv) loan
liquidation date; and (v) default date.
*   PFI's would be required to report quarterly to the CGA on the status of all loans made under
the Project. Special note would be given to loans 30 days or more past due, and efforts to
collect them in the normal course of business would be detailed.
Safeguard        The Preshipment Export Credit Guarantee fund would cover 80% of the non-performance risk of
Provisions       the outstanding principal of covered sub-loans amount plus accrued interest up to 90 days. Once
an individual PFI's losses of loans guaranteed under the program have exceeded 15%, new loans
would be guaranteed at a rate of 25%. No additional loans would be guaranteed if a PFI's loss
rate on guaranteed loans exceeds 40%. PFIs that lose their eligibility can regain full coverage
only by collecting enough of the defaulted loan balances to reduce their default ratio below 15%
or 40%, respectively. The use of write-offs or refinancing to achieve the targets would be
prohibited and reviewed by the CGA. Once a loan is 90 days past due, interest accruals should
cease, and the guarantee would be eligible to be called provided litigation against the borrower
has been instituted. PFIs would be able to receive 30% of any recoveries made by its efforts after
a loan has gone 90 days past due, but prior to execution of the guarantee, including seizure and
disposal of any collateral, excluding cash.  Any cash collateral should be applied to the
outstanding balance before any amount is paid under the guarantee.
Financial Flows  The financing mechanism  for the Export Finance Guarantee would function as follows: (i)
of the Guarantee  Premiums collected by the PFI and the Apex would be deposited into an interest-bearing account;
Fund--          (ii) payouts would be made from the same account; (iii) sub-loan recoveries from the Export
3      As emerging exporters develop a track record, then. in a later stage, a revolving guarantee could be offered based on the records of
past export performance.



- 63 -                                        Annex B
Finance Component
Finance Fund would, as necessary, be transferred from the Sub-loan Project Accounts to the
4
Guarantee Fund Project Account established to backstop potential losses under the guarantee
Guarantee        *  The financial intermediary should report arrears to the Guarantee Agency within 30 days of
Execution -          default. Guarantee payment claims would be eligible after 3 months have passed since the
Procedures for       loan default occurred;
Processing       *  The mechanics of reimbursement would work as follows: (i) defaulting sub-loans would be
Claims               entitled to reimbursement of 80% of the accumulated balance (principal and interest accrued
up to 90 days); (ii) once a sub-loan is confirmed by the Guarantee Agency to be entitled to
compensation, the Apex would debit the Guarantee Fund account and credit the PFI's project
account for the compensated balance.  This would effectively exonerate the PFI from
repayment to the Reserve Bank for 80% of the outstanding balance of the sub-loan
respective, plus accrued interest.
Audit            The CGA would require annual audit reports verifying that guaranteed loans were not used to
Requirements    refinance existing client debt.  Annual audits would be conducted on the project account,
including the account of the SME Credit Guarantee Fund. In this context, it is expected that: (i)
the CGA would keep separate accounts for each sub-borrower; and (ii) auditors would conduct
select and random reviews of subprojects to validate compliance with the terms and conditions of
subprojects.
Responsibilities   The CGA would be responsible to:
of the CGA       *   Review the information received for accuracy and check the consistency of documentation
provided. This would include a review of the export order, the L/C and/or the buyer's non-
payment risk coverage certificate to ensure coverage and to detect any possible falsification;
*   Verify the eligibility of the PFI and sub-project. Initial documentation should include a
history the PFI's credit relationship with the borrower and a certification that the loan to be
guaranteed is not a refinancing of existing or past credit5;
*   Receive and review quarterly reports from PFIs;
*   Inquire about efforts to collect or bring current, past due loans.
*   Review requests for exercise of the guarantee, verify the eligibility of the request and assure
that prudent banking practices have been followed in disbursing, administering and
attempting to collect the loan.
*   Facilitate reimbursement for approved guarantee claims, optimally within 30 days of receipt
of a request for guarantee execution.
*   Encourage PFIs to make every recovery effort possible for sub-loan repayment.
*   In the medium-term, provide a basic service to check to ensure that exporters using the
Guarantee are acting in good faith by checking past criminal or default records as well as the
validity of export orders and protection against foreign buyers' nonpayment risks.
MWarketing       The CGA should carry out a campaign to the banking and export communities through public
Campaign         media, seminars, and publications,
Review of the    Timely reviews and tabulation of exporter loan default data as well as the export success data of
State of Emerging emerging exporters should be used to provide input to the Steering Team for timely adjustments
Exporters        of the Guarantee's operational parameters.
Speedy Issue of   A seven working day target would be established for completing the Export Finance Guarantee
Export Finance   application process at the level of the financial intermediary and the Guarantee Agency, including
Guarantee        issuing the Finance Guarantee certificate.  Financial intermediaries should be encouraged to
Certificate      follow the Export Finance Guarantee application review guidelines to be issued by the CGA.
See projections below.
Given the overlap of information requirements between the CGA and the Apex, the sub-project summary form for financing would
also be submitted to the CGA.



- 64 -                                           Annex B
Finance Component
18.             Export Finance Guarantee Fund - Financial Projections. Table B2 below indicates
projections of the Export Finance Guarantee Fund.
Table B2: Cash Flow Projection for Export Credit Guarantee Fund
(US$ Millions)
Scenario 1: 2.0% Default
Assumptions:
Annual Rate of Default                            2.0%
Total Export Credit Covered by Guarantee          35.0
Premium Paid into Fund                            1.8%
Average Loan Maturity (Years)                      0.5
Rate of Coverage                                  80%
Financial Projections                          Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year5  Year 6  Year 7 Total
Preshipment Export Credit Guarantee Fund Balance (Undrawn-  0.1      0.2      0.5      0.7    0.9      1.1
Beg. of Period)
Capital Injection from Reflows
Premiums Received                                0.06     0.23     0.42     0.60     0.68    0.72    0.75
Amount Paid Out on Claims                                 -0.06    -0.20    -0.37    -0.53   -0.61   -0.64
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.00     0.01     0.02     0.03     0.04    0.04    0.05
Fund Balance (End of Period)                      0.07      0.2      0.5      0.7      0.9    1.1      1.2
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                        7.2    17.9    29.0      37.2   38.8    40.7
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                    7.0     10.5    10.5       7.0
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (5% in US$)     0.2      0.2      0.6      1.2      1.7    1.9    2.0
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   7.2      17.9    29.0    37.2      38.8   40.7    42.7
Average Loan Balance                               3.6      12.5    23.4    33.1      38.0   39.8    41.7
Scenario 2: 2.9% Default (Breakeven for Export Finance Guarantee Fund)
Financial Projections                          Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 6  Year 7 Total
Export Credit Guarantee Fund Balance (Beg. of Period)        0.1     0.2      0.4      0.4    0.4      0.2
Capital Injection from Reflows
Premiums Received                                0.06     0.23     0.42     0.60     0.68    0.72    0.75
Amount Paid Out on Claims                                 -0.08    -0.29    -0.54    -0.77   -0.88   -0.92
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.00     0.01     0.01     0.02     0.01    0.01    0.00
Fund Balance (End of Period)                      0.07       0.2     0.4      0.4      0.4    0.2      0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                        7.2    17.9    29.0      37.2   38.8    40.7
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                    7.0      10.5    10.5      7.0
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (5% in US$)     0.2      0.2      0.6      1.2      1.7    1.9      2.0
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   7.2      17.9    29.0     37.2     38.8   40.7    42.7
Average Loan Balance                               3.6      12.5    23.4    33.1      38.0   39.8    41.7
Scenario 3: 5% Default
Financial Projections                           Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year5  Year 6  Year 7 Total
Export Credit Guarantee Fund Balance (Beg. of Period)        0.1     0.2      0.1      0.0    0.0      0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows                                               0.3      0.6    0.8      0.8
Premiums Received                                0.06     0.23     0.42     0.59     0.67    0.69    0.71
Amount Paid Out on Claims                                 -0.14    -0.50    -0.94    -1.32   -1.49   -1.54
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.00     0.01     0.00     0.00                     0.00
Fund Balance (End of Period)                      0.07      0.2      0.1      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                        7.2    17.9    29.0      36.9   37.9    39.0
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                    7.0     10.5    10.5       7.0
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (5% in US$)     0.2      0.2      0.6      1.2      1.6    1.9      1.9
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund                               -0.3      -0.6   -0.8    -0.8  2.5
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   7.2      17.9    29.0    36.9      37.9   39.0   40.1
Average Loan Balance                               3.6      12.5    23.4    32.9      37.4   38.4    39.5



- 65 -                                           Annex B
Finance Component
Scenario 4: 15% Default
Financial Projections                          year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 6  Year 7 Total
Export Credit Guarantee Fund Balance (Beg. of Period)       0.1      0.0      0.0                      0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows                             0.1      1.1      2.2      3.1     3.4     3.2
Premiums Received                                0.06     0.22     0.41     0.55     0.59    0.56    0.53
Amount Paid Out on Claims                                 -0.43    -1.50    -2.73    -3.69   -3.95   -3.75
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.00     0.00    0.00                       0.00
Fund Balance (End of Period)                      0.07      0.0      0.0                       0.0     0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                        7.2    17.8    27.8      33.7   32.2   30.4
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                    7.0     10.5    10.5       7.0
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (5% in US$)     0.2      0.2      0.6      1.1      1.5    1.6      1.6
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund              -0.1    -1.1     -2.2     -3.1   -3.4    -3.2  13.1
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   7.2      17.8    27.8    33.7      32.2   30.4    28.8
Average Loan Balance                               3.6      12.5    22.8    30.7      32.9   31.3    29.6
Scenario 5:25% Default V
Financial Projections                          Year 1   Year 2   year 3   Year 4   Year    Year 6  Year 7 Total
Export Credit Guarantee Fund Balance (Beg. of Period)       0.1      0.0      0.1      0.0    0.0      0.0
Capital Injection from Reflows                             0.4      2.2      0.7      1.3    1.5      1.5
Premiums Received                                0.06     0.22     0.39     0.54     0.61    0.61    0.62
Amount Paid Out on Claims                                  -0.7    -2.5    -1.4      -1.9   -2.1    -2.1
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.00     0.00     0.00              0.00    0.00
Fund Balance (End of Period)                      0.07      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                        7.2    17.5    26.4      33.8   34.0    34.2
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                    7.0     10.5    10.5       7.0
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (5% in USS)     0.2      0.2      0.6      1.1      1.5    1.7      1.7
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund              -0.4    -2.2    -0.7      -1.3   -1.5    -1.5  7.6
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   7.2      17.5    26.4    33.8      34.0   34.2    34.4
Average Loan Balance                               3.6      12.3    21.9    30.1      33.9   34.1    34.3
/ Assumes that 15% Default Rate on Existing Loans Not Reached until End-Year 2.
Scenario 6: 50% Default 2/
Financial Projections                          Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 6  Year 7 Total
Export Credit Guarantee Fund Balance (Beg. of Period)       0.1      0.0      0.1      0.6    1.3    2.1
Capital Injection from Reflows                              1.2     1.1
Premiums Received                                0.06     0.21     0.39     0.55     0.64    0.67    0.70
Amount Paid Out on Claims                                  -1.4    -1.5
Interest on Positive Net Premiums (4.0%)         0.00     0.00    0.00      0.02     0.05    0.08    0.11
Fund Balance (End of Period)                      0.07      0.0      0.1      0.6      1.3    2.1      2.9
Apex Sub-loan Balance (Beg of Period)                        7.2    16.7    26.7      34.7   36.3    38.0
New Disbursements from IDA ($)                    7.0     10.5    10.5       7.0
Interest Received on Onlent Funds (5% in US$)     0.2      0.2      0.6      1.1      1.5    1.8      1.9
Transfers of Reflows to Credit Guarantee Fund              -1.2    -1.1                                     2.3
Sub-loan Balance (End of Period)                   7.2      16.7    26.7    34.7      36.3   38.0    39.9
Average Loan Balance                               3.6      11.9    21.7    30.7      35.5   37.2    39.0
2/ Assumes that 15% Default Rate on Existing Loans Not Reached until End-Year 1 and
50% default on Existing Loans Not Reached until End-Year 2.
V. Performance Guidelines and Certification Procedures for Participation of Financial
Intermediaries
A. Introduction - Eligible Institutions
19.             The purpose of the certification procedures detailed below is to ensure as far as possible
that resources under the Project are intermediated through only those participating financial intermnediaries



- 66 -                                   Annex
Finance Component
(PFIs) which can be reasonably determined to be solvent and well-managed in accordance with sound
financial practices and which operate in a way in which they will allocate funds productively to the SME or
emerging exporter markets respectively. With the assistance of external auditors, the Steering Team in
consultation with IDA would be responsible for qualifying institutions based on an evaluation of the
solvency, financial position and intermediation capacity of each prospective PFI.
20.           Participation in the Finance facilities would, in principle, be open to all financial
institutions licensed under the Banking Act6 as well as select State-owned institutions (SEDCO and
Zimbabwe Development Bank) and non-Governmental organizations on a case-by-case basis. The
evaluation of financial institutions (FIs) to participate under the project would be determined on the basis of
information and criteria set out in Sections B and C below. In cases where lending is proposed to a
subsidiary of a licensed bank holding company, the evaluation would be applied to both the parent and the
subsidiary on a consolidated basis.
21.           FIs would be certified for initial participation under the project and re-certified annually
for continued participation. Certification procedures would be as follows: (i) FIs would request their
external auditors to undertake an evaluation according to the criteria in Section C below; (ii) Applicant
Fls would submit the information indicated in Section B to the auditors; (iii) the Auditors would provide
written evaluations to the Steering Team and to IDA as to the FI's compliance with the criteria; and (iv)
the RBZ would have the right at any time to revoke the certification of FIs found to not to fully satisfy
the eligibility criteria or found by the RBZ to be in violation of the Banking Act or other laws or
prudential regulations.
B. Information Required
22.           The following written information FI's would be required to submit to Auditors, the
Steering Tean and IDA:
(a)    Annual audited financial statements according to generally accepted accounting principles.
For new institutions, the above requirement could be waived and in its stead, replaced with
detailed financial projections outlining data according to the same reporting standards,
satisfactory to the Steering Team;
(b)    Unqualified audit opinion over the statements in "a" above. If this opinion is qualified,
required would be a satisfactory explanation and action plan from the management of the
financial intermediary for remedying the situation;
(c)    A special eligibility assessment conducted by external auditors according to the criteria in
Section C. This should include publication of information as to the amount of loans past
due (including overdrafts, so classified) affected by arrears, current and accumulated
provisions, and the criteria for each as well as the criteria for interest accrual and rollovers;
and
(d)    Any other information the Steering Team, RBZ or IDA may consider necessary for
purposes of conducting its assessment.
Or amended legislation as passed.



- 67 -                                      Annex
Finance Component
C. Eligibility Evaluation Criteria
23.            External Auditors contracted would examine an financial institution's financial position
according to the following guidelines:
(a)    Management.  A review should evaluate the financial management of the institution,
including its credit controls, planning mechanisms, staffing and information systems.
Audits should verify or comment on the following:
(i)    The Fl's Board of Directors sets overall financial policy and performs appropriate
oversight of the Institution's operations;
(ii)    The Fl has sound budget, planning and financial control procedures;
(iii)   The Fl has sound lending policies and procedures;
(iv)    The FI has sound internal controls and audit procedures;
(v)     The Fl has managers with adequate skills and experience to carry out their
respective tasks; and
(vi)    The Fl's management information system provides sufficient information to the
staff responsible for managing the Fl's risks and financial performance.
(b)    Capital Adequacy - The review should assess whether (where applicable) the financial
intermediary's risk-weighted capital adequacy is in compliance with guidelines laid down
by RBZ. If not applicable, the level of capital in relation to risk-adjusted assets should be
indicated, along with a qualitative evaluation of the sufficiency of such capital. As of June
1996, it is expected that commercial banks will be required to operate with minimum
capital adequacy ratios of 4% for Tier I capital and 6% for total net capital. By June 1997,
all commercial banks will be required to have a minimum capital adequacy of 4% for Tier I
capital and 8% for total net capital. Requirements for merchant banks and discounts would
be in accordance with guidelines to be issued;
(c)    Loan and Other Asset Quality. Assessment should be made of the risk profile of loans,
other assets and the sufficiency of capital to cover such risks. A detailed portfolio review
should be conducted in accordance with the guidelines indicated in Charts B5 and B6 on
the next pages. The certification should indicate whether the level of loan loss provisions
is sufficient and, if not, the qualified level of deficiency and a recalculation of capital based
on such a deficiency;
(d)    Collection Ratio. Auditors should consider whether the collection ratio is sufficient to
avoid erosion of the inflation-adjusted net worth of the FI7;
(e)    Earnings Performance.  Auditors should evaluate whether net income, adjusted for
inflation (as determined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI)), provides a positive return on
equity with realistic provisions for losses. Negative real returns could be justified if they
are shown to reflect transitory conditions;
i.e., cash collections of principal and interest over total collectibles during the last 12 months' total collectibles comprise total arrears at
the beginning plus ainounts falling due during the period.



-68-                                      Annex
Finance Component
(f)    Liquidity Position. Auditors should evaluate whether the Fl has a sound liquidity position
and liquidity management systems. While the most important indicator of an institution's
liquidity position is its liquidity management capability, these other indicators should also
be assessed: (i) frequency and level of liquidity support from the RBZ; (ii) frequency of
borrowings from the inter-bank market; (iii) the relationship between new commitments
for loans and investments and the resources available to finance such commitments; and
(iv) liquidity maintained to meet maturing obligations (operating expenses and debt-
servicing liabilities);
(g)    Foreign Exchange Position. Auditors should assess whether the Fl has a proper foreign
exchange risk monitoring and control system in place as stated in RBZ guidelines; and
(h)    Intermediation Capacity. Auditors should review the capacity of the prospective PFI to
effectively initiate, appraise, process, monitor and supervise sub-loans to SMEs and
exporters.
E. Certification Procedures
24.           External Auditors would evaluate the Fl according to the performance guidelines above in
order to render an assessment of the Fl's soundness, solvency, risk concentration and capacity to
intermediate credit to SMEs and exporters. The Steering Team would decide based upon the analysis and
recommendation of the External Auditors whether to certify, not certify or partially certify (or recertify) a
financial institution to participate in the Project.
25.           Based on the assessment of variables indicated in Section C, institutions would be
certified or recertified into one of three categories: (1) fully eligible; (2) partially eligible; and (3) not
eligible. Institutions fully eligible would be entitled to intermediate funds under either the SME Fund or
Export Finance Fund up to the maximum exposure levels established for all institutions by the Steering
Team, in consultation with IDA. Institutions could be determined as partially eligible in cases where
deficiencies in performance criteria are noted but where the institution has submitted a detailed time-
bound action plan for remedying those deficiencies. The judgment of the viability of such an action
plan would be undertaken jointly by the Steering Team and IDA. Institutions could again become fully
eligible to participate at any time, providing they have been reassessed by External Auditors according
to the same criteria and, provided that such assessment indicates that their condition has improved
sufficiently to fully meet the criteria.
26.           Institutions found judged partially eligible would be eligible to borrow under the
Project lesser of: (i) 10% of the net capital and reserves of the institution (verified and, as necessary
restated by the External Auditors); or (ii) five percent of the total of the SME Finance Fund or Export
Finance Fund, respectively. These levels could be modified by the Steering Team, in consultation with
IDA. As above, once certification indicates full compliance with eligibility criteria, such institutions
would again be entitled to the full amount of their allocation under the Project.



- 69 -                                             Annex B
Finance Component
CHART B5 -- ZIMBABWE: Eligibility Criteria -
Guidelines for Assessment of Commercial Financial Institution Credit Risks
Capital        The level of capital and reserves should be sufficient to cover the risks associated with assets on a risk-adjusted
Adequacy       basis. The Basle standard of 8% should be applied, in accordance with RBZ guidelines and weights.
Loan           An evaluation should review whether loans refinanced, rescheduled or renewed result from weaknesses in the
Rescheduling    Borrower's Financial Position and/or inability to repay. In such a case, evidence should show that the borrower can
demonstrate the capacity to service the loan under the new conditions of the contract. Credits classified as doubtful
or loss should not have been renegotiated unless such loans have either an improvement in the loan collateral or an
up-front cash payment. Loans rescheduled involving capitalization of interest (whereby uncollected interest is
added to unpaid principal at the payment date or maturity of a loan or advance) should have an increase in the value
of the collateral to cover the capitalized interest. A new loan resulting from the interest capitalization indicate that
the borrower has increased his or her capacity to service the loan under the new conditions of the contract. Credits
classified as substandard, doubtful or loss should not be eligible for interest capitalization.
Loan           Institutions should routinely conduct a review of 70% of their portfolio on an annual basis, according to the
Review         classification and provisioning criteria below. Non-performing loans, loans classified as substandard, doubtful or
Standards      loss and classified overdraft accounts should be reviewed monthly.
Provisioning    Useful provisioning guidelines are: Pass and special mention loans -no minimum required provision; Substandard
Guidelines     loans --an initial 10% provision with increases arriving at a 20% provision; Doubtful loans --a 50% provision; and
Loss loans a 100% provision. Provisions should be calculated after deducting the estimated value of collateral and
adding the legal and administrative costs for seizure and disposition of collateral as well as estimated asset
depreciation during the holding period for collateral.
Overdraft      *   Overdraft accounts should be reviewed by the PFI at least annually. Overdraft accounts should be classified
Accounts           as "Substandard" and subject to the provision schedule indicated above provided that: Interest charges for the
preceding 12 months have not been covered by deposits during the same period.
*   The overdraft has exceeded the authorized limit both frequently and without special authorization.
-   The overdraft has evidenced fluctuations and deposit patterns which do not conform with the normal cycle of
the borrower's business.
   Once classified as "Substandard", the overdraft should be converted to a "Substandard" loan. be reflected as
such on the balance sheet and be subject to revised conditions.
Investment     Fixed income investments should be reflected based on an estimate of their market value. Such a market value
Classification   should reflect, inter alia the difference between the interest rate on the instrument and the rate prevailing for
securities with similar maturities, and the risk of the security (or the underlying value of the assets securing it).
Central Govemment bonds and instruments with a Govemment guarantee should be valued to at least reflect the
coupon rate on the instrument. Equity investments should be reflected based on an estimate of their market value
given risk and profitability expectations and peer group and market indices.
Interest       A useful guideline is that loans should be classified as "nonperforming" if no payment is made or the payment
Accrual        made (both principal and interest is any amount less than the contractual payment for the payment period. Interest
on non-performing commercial loans should not accrue for more than 90 days and at the end of 90 days such
accrued interest should be reversed. Interest on non-performing mortgage- loans should accrue for more than 180
days and at the end of that period such accrued interest should be reversed. Interest on overdrafts should
automatically accrue by increasing the amount outstanding. Once the overdraft is classified as substandard, interest
should cease to accrue previously accrued interest should be reversed. Accrued, uncollected interest should be
reflected as a separate account on the balance sheet.
Loan           The aggregate sum of loans to "borrower groups related to a financial institution" should be examined. A rule of
Concentration   thumb is that together they should represent no more than the total capital of the institution.
Requirements   Loans to Directors and Shareholders should be subject to more restrictive size limitations as for other borrowers
(including limits on loans to Borrowers or Borrower Groups Related to the Financial Institution).
Risks of unsecured loans in relation to the capital base should be noted.
Sectoral risk concentration should be evaluated in relation to the capital base of PFI.
Treatment of   The size and valuation of Fixed Assets and Assets Seized from Defaulting Debtors should be reviewed and an
Fixed Assets   assessment be made as to whether the valuation is appropriate (and the effects on capital) and whether too large of
an investment in fixed assets represents inordinate risk to the institution.



- 70 -                                            Annex B
Finance Component
CHART B6 - ZIMBABWE: Eligibility Criteria for Participation of Financial Intermediaries
Recommended Loan Classification Criteria for Commercial Loans
Loan         Payment               Documentation                Financial Position of the Borrower     Collateral
Classifi-     Status                                                                                    Qual!r
caion
Pass       Up to 30       Has full credit                   The financial position of the borrower and    The value or
days in       documentation/information          project are in no way impaired.         liquidity of the
arrears                                                                                  loan collateral
are in no way
impaired
Special    30-89 days in  May lack certain documentation in  Evidence may suggest that factors could in
Mention    arrears       the credit folder yet such absence  the future affect the loan but such conditions
does not impair the capacity to assess  are noted as transitory and should not affect
the financial position of the borrower  the recovery of the loan under original
or value of collateral.           conditions.
Sub-       90-179 days   May lack certain documentation in  Evidence suggests that there is a well-  Evidence may
standard   in arrears    the credit folder yet such absence  defined credit weakness or weakness in the   suggest that
does not impair the capacity to assess  sector of the debtor firm such that the cash   the value or
the financial position of the borrower,  flow of the borrower is insufficient to  liquidity of the
project or the value of collateral.  promptly service the debt. Such weaknesses  collateral have
suggest that there is a 20% chance of non-    been impaired
recovery of the outstanding loan balance or
virtual certainty of recovery of 80% of the
outstanding balance.
Doubtful   180-364 days  May lack documentation which       Evidence may suggest that there is a 50%  "
in arrears or   impairs the capacity to assess the  chance of non-recovery of the loan due to
payments      financial position of the borrower or   weaknesses in the borrower or financial
judicially    project or the value of collateral  position of the project financed or certainty
suspended                                       of non-recovery of 50% of the outstanding
loan amount. Such a loss however, is not a
certainty--possibly mechanisms exist such
as sale of the borrower company or legal
action
Loss       Over 365       No documentation exists or grave  Evidence may suggest that the debtor is
days in       defects exist in the documentation  insolvent--the borrower's financial position
arrears                                         and the project financed is insufficient to
service the outstanding debt. In this case,
there is virtual certainty (100%) of non-
recovery of the loan.



- 71 -                                   AnnexC
Institutional Development Component
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development Component
1.           Introduction and Administrative Arrangements. The objective of the Institutional
Development Component is to support the development of public and private institutions which form an
integral part of the framework for enterprise development supported by other measures under the Project.
Improving the capacity of these institutions will prove vital to further facilitating policy reforms being
undertaken (improving the application of duty relief mechanisms for exporters, Export Processing Zone
(EPZ) schemes, and improving banking supervision) and in supporting private institutions in achieving a
supply response to measures undertaken. The component would be administered by the project's
Administrative Secretariat as indicated in Annex E.
I. Matching Grants for Strengthening the Capacity of Financial Intermediaries
2.            Rationale. To date, each commercial bank in Zimbabwe has a Small Business Unit
whose objective is to lend to small emerging enterprises.  Moreover, select non-bank financial
institutions have embarked on lending to this segment. In most cases, an effort has been made to develop
the capacity to lend to emerging enterprises on a profitable and sustainable basis. Yet the managers of
these financial institutions have admitted that there are significant limitations in the staff capability and
operating systems to originate, appraise, supervise and monitor SME loans in their institutions.
Moreover, banks and non-banks have indicated a need and willingness to view alternative methods for
loan origination, appraisal, monitoring and supervision. The matching grant scheme is developed in
recognition of the additional costs incurred by financial intermediaries (Fls) in undertaking or enhancing a
new line of activity in terms of developing skilled staffing for SME operations and in terms of developing
the necessary systems for monitoring and supervision of SME clients. The aim is that financial institutions
can partially defray additional market entry costs to accelerate their movement in this area.
3.            Program. As indicated in Table Cl below, a 50:50 Matching Grant Program  (Project
Cost US$840,000 of which IDA would finance US$420,000) would be established to assist financial
institutions in developing the capacity and systems necessary for SME loan initiation, appraisal and
monitoring. This scheme aims to mitigate some of the costs incurred by financial intermediaries in
undertaking or enhancing this new line of activity. PFIs would have access to grant funds on a 50:50 basis
to partially defray these additional market entry costs in order to accelerate their movement in this area.
The total expected IDA support of US$420,000 would represent 14 matching grants of an average of
US$30,000 over a three-year period. Matching grants would be targeted at supporting the Small
Business Units of commercial banks. In order to receive such a grant, the financial institution must
submit a development program which should indicate precisely the type of expert advice or training
proposed. This could include the number of activities (workshops, on the job training, site visits, courses
attended) to be concluded, number of staff trained per activity, level of staff trained, type of training
conducted, sources of trainers, estimated cost per training event, estimated cost per staff training event,
and expected results. Matching grants could also be applied towards the development of internal systems
and controls of SME lending activity, such as the development of a separate cost account and loan
portfolio monitoring system for the Small Business Unit or SME portfolio. It is likely that institutional
development needs will be concentrated in the following areas: (i) internal staff training; (ii) twinning/
partnering with "best practice" financial intermediaries abroad; (iii) specialized consultancies



- 72 -                                           AnnexC
Institutional Development Component
Table Cl: Institutional Development Component: Projected Budget
(US$)
Prsn Daily  Per   Budgetary Projection - Allocation             Financing
D=   ES Diem  Year I  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4    TIt    MA             Qther
1. Matching Grants to Fin Institutions to Intermed. SME Loans    160,000 300,000 300,000  80,000  840,00   420,000
11. Strengthening SEDCO                              99,890  44,510  25,000  25,000  170.000  170,000
1. Cons. - Str. Management        30  500   140  24,400                              24,400   24,400
2. Legal Consultant               40  350          14,000                             14,000    14,000
3. Debt-Recovery Specialist       53  400   140  19,510   19,510                     39,020   39,020
4. Computers                                       16,980                             16,980    16,980
5. Extemal Financial Assessments                  25,000  25,000  25,000  25,000  100,000  100,000
Ill. Strengthening RBZ Banking Supervision          107,100  48,050  44,850            200.000  200,000
1. Cons. - Financial Reporting    30  400   140  21,400                              21,400   21,400
2. Cons. - Drafting Impl. Regs    60  500   140  24,400  24,400                      48,800   48,800
3. Cons. - Training On- & off     90  475   140  23,450  23,650  23,650              70,750   70,750
-site Inspection & Analysis
4. Cons. - Dev. of Procedures     50  500   140  21,200            21,200            42,400   42,400
Manuals (incl. inspection)
5. Computers                                       16,650                             16,650   16,650
IV. Support to RBZ Est. of Apex and CGA              62,500   17,500                    80.000   80,000
I. Cons. -Crdt Guarantee Systems  40  475   140  17,500   17,500                     35,000   35,000
2. Cons. - SME Finance            22  400   140  17,080                               17,080   17,080
3. Cons. - Export Finance         22  425   140  17,630                               17,630    17,630
4. MIS Consultant                 15  300          4,500                              4,500    4,500
5. Computers                                       5,790                              5,790    5,790
V. Support to Customs and Excise                    149,040  75,480  75,480            300.000  300,000
1. Team Leader/lnw. Proc. Zone   135  600   140  41,300  38,500  38,500             118,300  118,300
2. Input Output Coefficient Experts (3)   126  550   140  36,980  36,980  36,980    110,940  110,940
3. Cons. - Common Bonded Warehouse   32  475   140  24,880          -                24,880   24,880
4. Systems Consultant             15  300          4,500                               4,500    4,500
5. Computers                                       17,240                             17,240   17,240
6. Systems Consultant             15  300          4,500                              4,500    4,500
7. Study Tour                                      19,640                             19,640   19,640
VI. Support to the Adm. of Export Processing Zone Regulations    62,660  27,340         90.000   90,000
1. Study Tour                                     29,460                             29,460   29,460
2. Ext. Cons. - Dev. of Reg. Guidelines    72  475   140  27,340  27,340             54,680   54,680
3. Computers                                        5,860                              5,860    5,860
VII. Support of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce  38,880  30,560  30,560          100.000  100,000
1. Consultant - Trainer          142  400   140  30,560  30,560  30,560              91,680   91,680
2. Computers                                       8,320                              8,320    8,320
Vil. Support to the Project Administrative Secretariat  115,000 115,000 115,000  35,000  380.000         380,000
1. Technical Adviser                              80,000  80,000  80,000            240,000            240,000
2. Unit Head                                      16,000  16,000  16,000  16,000   64,000               64,000
3. Unit Assistant                                 11,000  11,000  11,000  11,000   44,000               44,000
4. Equipment, Space, Facilities                    8,000   8,000   8,000   8,000   32,000               32,000
TOTAL                                              715.070 508.440 440.89  .100.000 1740.000 2.160.000  800.00



- 73 -                                  4nnexC
Institutional Development Component
consultancies; and (iv) management information systems for small business lending. The program would
be managed by the Project Administrative Secretariat (See Annex E), with support of a Project Technical
Adviser and in consultation with IDA. Matching grant approval should be by the Steering Team, at the
recommendation of the Administrative Secretariat.
4.           In order to receive such a grant, the recipient financial institution would be required to
submit a training program which would include, inter alia, activities (workshops, on the job training, site
visits, courses attended) to be concluded, number of staff trained per activity, level of staff trained, type
of training conducted, sources of trainers, estimated training events, and expected results. Further, the
use of specialized consultants for training or systems development would need to be justified through the
submission to the Administrative Secretariat. Finally, matching grants applied towards the development
of internal systems and controls of SME lending activity, such as the development of a separate cost
account and loan portfolio monitoring system for the SBU unit or SME portfolio would need to be
justified by the submission of a similar plan.
II. Support of SEDCO in Sharpening its Financial Administration and Strategic Focus
5.           Background. SEDCO's overall results in supporting emerging enterprises has been
positive in the years since its founding in 1983. The institution has developed demonstrated institutional
capacity in lending to SMEs and has reached an important segment of existing companies. Although its
borrower performance was adversely affected by the 1992 drought and its aftermath, SEDCO's
performance when viewed from the perspective of sustainable enterprises supported, appears positive. In
the past, SEDCO has experienced understaffing and staff turnover problems resulting from salaries not
sufficiently competitive. In spite of the status of SEDCO as a parastatal and the presence of civil
servants on the Board, SEDCO management operates independently and autonomously. Management
support had also been provided for a number of years through a CIDA-funded program. Through several
advisors, this support has built up SEDCO's capacity in operations, client assistance and financial
monitoring. Access to financial resources has been constrained for SEDCO since its establishment,
given that SEDCO has been and still is dependent on Govemment's budgetary allocations to cover its
operating expenses.  Slow  Government disbursements have also created cash-flow  constraints.
Moreover, since the 1992 drought, losses in its loan portfolio have significantly reduced its net lending.
6.           SEDCO defines its clientele as those enterprises with fewer than 50 employees and less
than US$60,000 in assets. Seventy percent of its loans are in rural areas. SEDCO recently initiated a
one-year pilot scheme in micro-finance using a group-lending methodology. These loans have a 12
month term and monthly repayments and its cost of capital is under 10%. Enterprises must come up with
15% of the overall project. SEDCO has also placed considerable emphasis on client training in order to
support the growth of SMEs, providing training and technical assistance for its clients, and non-clients
on a fee basis. For most clients, the first training/ technical assistance provided is in the form of
assistance to prepare loan submission, including, in effect, the business plan (e.g., projections, evaluation
of markets). This process frequently requires a significant investment in time by SEDCO staff. This
cost has been frequently cited by commercial banks as a serious constraint in their lending to SSEs.
Clients are encouraged, and frequently required, to participate in one or more of the courses that SEDCO
offers in the core areas of business. With the assistance and financial support of CIDA, SEDCO has
developed an Entrepreneur Development Program to assist a pre-screened group to develop business
proposals.
7.           SEDCO has developed a fairly detailed screening process with loan origination,
approval, monitoring and recovery capacity located in-house. The project review process includes: (i) a
review of the current and projected financial position of the prospective borrowers; (ii) a market
competition analysis; (iii) a review of labor and management issues; and (iv) site visits. After some



- 74 -                                   AnnexC
Institutional Development Component
time, SEDCO succeeded in implementing a solid computer monitoring system to manage the flow of
information and track clients in arrears. Currently, the institution has six branch offices all located in
urban areas.
8.            SEDCO has a capital base of about US$450,000 and an outstanding loan portfolio of
about US$4.5 million. As of March 1995, SEDCO had a capital base of about US$750,000, 1,900 loans
outstanding, and a portfolio valued at about US$17.9 million. Its average loan size used to be under
US$10,000 but in recent years, SEDCO has increased that amount in an effort to provide support to
larger SMEs, many of which who have a credit history with SEDCO. A maximum size has been set at
US$120,000. Most of SEDCO's loans to date have been medium term loans, as 77% of all loans and
79% of the value of all loans have been granted on a three to five year basis.
9.            Strategic Plan. Prior to undertaking a program of strengthening SEDCO's financial
administration and strategic focus it is important to have a clear idea of the strategic objectives of
SEDCO's Board and management. It is therefore important to answer the following questions prior to
proceeding to make commitments under this component as well as before potentially certifying SEDCO
to intermediate funds under the Finance Component of the Project. Such a strategic plan should, at a
minimum, indicate: (i) which segments of the market SEDCO is targeting in terms of size, sector and
process, including ascertaining its objectives in microenterprise lending; (ii) more clearly define its
interest rate policy, with clearer criteria for market adjustments; (iii) explain its funding and treasury
strategy, including realistic expectations of Government financing and the objectives and expectations in
inviting in non-governmental shareholders; (iv) develop reasonable multi-year solvency targets which
the institution could then work towards bearing in mind its strategic objectives; and (v) articulate targets
for operating efficiency (operating costs as a percentage of loans outstanding), bearing in mind SEDCO's
objectives to assistance services to its clients. Receipt of such a strategic plan, acceptable to IDA would
be a condition of disbursing funds under this subcomponent.
10.           Program. Support under the Project would be provided to improve SEDCO's strategic
focus and its financial management. The project would provide US$170,000 of support for SEDCO as
follows: Assistance by a firm specialized in financial institution management strategy would be
contracted by SEDCO to provide guidance in: (i) refining its strategic target borrower segments in terms
of the competitive advantage the institution has to offer; and (ii) setting up a financial strategy so as to
maximize its funding and diversify its funding base; and (iii) review with SEDCO management issues of
strategic and financial planning including, the implications of interest rate policy for capital
accumulation and thus, levels of net lending and the strategic positioning of SEDCO in the SME, SSE
and microenterprise markets. Further, a trained Financial Specialist would be contracted to provide
assistance including: (i) training offinancial division staff in projections and financial planning, treasury
management and cost of funds assessment, calculation of financial risks; and portfolio appraisal; and (ii)
training of business analysts in loan appraisal and project risk assessment. Assistance by a legal
specialist would be provided including: (i) training of Legal Desk Officers in legal procedures, including
loan liquidation's; (ii) training of Business Analysts in the legal aspects of registry/titling and recovery of
fixed and movable collateral; and (iii) training of Debt Recovery Unit Officers in the legal aspects and
procedures of collateral seizure and appropriation, including assessing client's worthiness of legal
action. The project would also provide for the acquisition of six desk-top computers, two printers and
select software to add to and replace SEDCO's aging computer systems.
III. Support to Strengthening RBZ Financial Institution Regulation and Supervision
11.           Rationale. Under current law, the RBZ has the authority to issue statutory prudential
regulations for banking institutions, but has no authority to carry out on-site inspections, and limited
authority to require information for surveillance purposes. The main statutory requirements for the



- 75 -                                  4nnexzC
Institutional Development Component
banking system cover minimum capital and reserves and minimum liquidity balances. Operational
guidelines include gearing ratios, overall risk asset ratios, maximum exposure in any one customer or
related groups of customers, and monitoring of foreign exchange dealings.
12.          Financial liberalization, the increasing size and complexity of the financial system and
pending modifications to banking legislation have resulted in significant increases in the responsibilities
placed on RBZ for financial institution supervision. The draft revised Banking Act would amend current
legislation such that the regulatory authority and enforcement powers of the Banking Supervision
Department (BSD) in the RBZ would further increase significantly. The new Act would enable the RBZ
to perform on-site examinations and would widen its coverage to include finance houses and building
societies. Further, current prudential banking guidelines would be transformed into regulations and new
regulations would be drafted and implemented.
13.          Program. In light of this pressing need for strengthened regulation and institutional
capacity to implement such regulations, the project would provide US$200,000 of support for the
institutional strengthening of the RBZ in its expanded role of regulation and supervision of financial
institutions. Project funds would support the institutional strengthening of the RBZ in its regulation and
supervision of financial institutions by financing extemal consultants in providing hands-on guidance
and training in on-site inspection procedures and practices. Consultants would work closely with RBZ
staff in conducting on-site inspections. Moreover, support would be provided in off-site analysis,
including the application of eligibility criteria established. Finally, assistance would be provided in the
development of implementing regulations and circulars to complement the revised Banking Act.
Specific consultant support would be provided for: (i) drafting and implementation of prudential banking
regulations, including loan classification, provisioning and capital requirements under the revised Banking
Act; (ii) assistance with the development of manuals for on-site and off-site bank examinations; (iii)
practical assistance with on-the job on-site and off-site examinations (for instance from a foreign bank
regulator); (iv) strengthening financial institutions' reporting to BSD and BSD's data analysis capacity;
and (v) six laptop computers, four portable printers and select software for the BSD, in particular for use
in on-site inspection and analysis.
IV. Support of the RBZ in Developing an Apex Unit and Credit Guarantee Agency
14.          Rationale. The responsibilities taken on by the RBZ to manage the project's Apex and
Credit Guarantee Agency (CGA) involve significant institutional development requirements and start-up
needs. Development of an efficient Apex will require considerable institution-building so as to assure
that the Finance Component functions efficiently. Further, efficient management of a CGA will prove
critical to the success of the project.
15.          Program. The project would provide US$70,000 of support to the RBZ in developing
an Apex Unit and CGA. This would include:
*  Development of Regulations and Procedures Manuals for the SME and Export Finance Facilities.
Two consultant specialists would provide assistance in the development of the SME Finance Facility
and the Export Finance facilities, respectively.  These manual will outline each step in the
management of these finance facilities and will include each form of documentation required such as
participation agreements, sub-loan data sheets, disbursement forms and guarantee documentation;
*  Development of a Credit Guarantee Procedures Manual. Given that SME Credit guarantees and
Preshipment Export Finance guarantees are considerably different from oneanother, specialized
advice would be provided to the CGA under the project in putting together the procedures for these
facilities. Initial guidance would be provided by the individuals supporting the establishment of the



- 76 -                                  AnnexC
Institutional Development Component
Apex which would then be complemented with one or more individuals with specific experience in
SME and Export Finance guarantees. Much of the work of this individual(s) would be to refine the
operational procedures for guarantee execution.
Systems Development - Subproject Information Management and Disbursement System.  A
consultant would be hired under the project to assist Apex management in setting up an automated
operating system for the management of the finance facilities, based on the finance facilities
regulations manuals. In addition, the consultant will provide hands-on guidance to the Apex staff.
Time permitting, the same consultant will be called upon to provide the same kind of operating
system design for the CGA, including initial staff training. Funds would also be provided for the
purchase of desktop computers and printers for the Apex and CGA.
V. Support of the Customs and Excise Department in its Automation and Administration of Duty-
Drawback and Inward Processing Rebate Provisions
A. Background and Objectives
16.          Background and Rationale. The Govemment has to date taken far-reaching measures
to improve the incentive framework for emerging exporters, including liberalization of access to foreign
exchange and a reduction of duties on inputs. Yet anti-export biases remain, in part because of the
difficulty in administration of existing mechanisms for providing input duty relief for exporters.
Assuring speedy access to imported inputs at world market prices is critical for emerging SME and infant
direct and indirect exporter to compete in the world market on an equal footing with foreign competitors.
Offering efficient duty-free import schemes is the best export incentives that the Govemment can offer to
emerging exporters without violating GATT rules on export subsidies as well as incurring budgetary
burdens.
17.          Automation. The current Central and Regional Customs and Excise Department has
had very limited automation of duty assessments nor automation of the process of data centralization.
Although a process is going on, further installation of desk-top computers in Regional Customs offices as
well as use by Customs Officers of transportable laptops could significantly increase the efficiency of
duty assessment and collection. Moreover, it could increase the efficiency of determining duty drawback
and inward processing rebate eligibility. The aim is to achieve more liberalized Inward Processing
Rebate permits authorization' as well as more speedy access to Duty Drawbacks (currently 7 to 8 months
delays in receiving drawbacks). Greater transparency in these schemes will prove critical for ensuring
the equal access for the schemes for SME, infant, or indirect exporters.
18.          Standard Input-Output Coefficients. Published standard input-output coefficients are
a means by which direct and indirect producers are given a clear idea beforehand of the amount of duty
they can expect to pay on inputs that go into their products as well as a clear idea of the amount of rebate
or other exemption they are entitled to. The use and publication of such coefficients would not
fundamentally alter the process of duty assessment today but would merely increase the transparency and
efficiency of such calculations. Publication of standard input-output coefficients and computerization of
IPR and Duty Drawback handling at the Regional Customs would make it possible for exporters to deal
exclusively with the Regional Customs for IPR and Duty Drawback, eliminating their trips to and the
duplicated administrative work of the main Customs office. In tum, cross-county experiences suggest
that the costs of pre-tabulating the standard input-output coefficients are much less than the Customs
I     At this writing, only 41 exporters are allowed to use IPR.



- 77 -                                  Annex
Institutional Development Component
manpower and exporters' administrative costs incurred in handling the input-output coefficients on an ad
hoc, non-systematic, and non-transparent way.
19.          Common Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme. In order to provide access to
duty exemption benefits (IPR-type benefits) for SMEs, infant, or indirect exporters, a Common Bonded
Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme would be offered. Duty exemption would relieve SME or infant
exporters from the high interest and working capital burdens associated with Duty Drawback. The
licensed Common Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse operators would be allowed to hold the stocks of
the duty-free imported items (under Custom bonds) for distribution to SME, infant, or indirect exporters
based on the published standard input-output coefficients and direct and indirect export orders at
reasonable service charges that would include import and Custom agent fees. The license would be
granted to private or public agencies.  Upon the submission of the required export completion
documents, the associated Custom Bonds would be released.
B. Program Support
20.          The program is aimed to achieve four objectives: (i) develop an efficient and transparent
system of Input-Output Coefficient Administration; (ii) improve the efficiency of Inward Processing
Rebate and Duty Drawback relief provisions; (iii) establish and implement a mechanism for duty relief
by indirect producers by a Common-bonded Manufacturers' Warehouse scheme; and (iv) further
automate the process of duty calculation and processing. This support will be closely coordinated with
the support of the EPZ Authority indicated in Section VI below. The Project will provide US$300,000 in
funding to support achieving these objectives.
21.          Standard Input-Output Coefficients. The project would support a Team Leader and
three foreign input-output coefficient experts for the estimation of the standard input-output coefficients
of the major manufactured export items. These coefficients (known as "formulae" or "ratings") would be
pre-tabulated for key manufacturing export items (at the disaggregated H.C. level) by qualified sub-
sector engineering staff. This exercise would be carried out in an office separated from the Regional and
Main Custom units implementing the IPR and Duty Drawback on a daily basis and publish the standard
input-output coefficients for the daily use by exporters and Customs officials. An administrative
mechanism could be established in the medium-term by which an input-output coefficient office could
issue new or revised standard input-output coefficients for new export items or items that need revisions
shortly after receiving exporters' requests.  These individuals would have specializations in the
textile/garment, leather/footwear, and engineering/other sectors.  They would be supported for
approximately 40 working days each. Additional tasks of these experts would be to estimate a fixed
drawback schedule for those outputs with complex and a large number of inputs such as electronics
goods, and train the staff of the input-output coefficient office so that they can carry out the tasks of
updating the standard input-output coefficients. In addition, the project would finance five desktop
Pentium computers and two printers to carry out the tasks of estimating, publishing, and updating the
standard input-output coefficients and fixed drawback schedule.
22.          Systems Support. Assistance of one computer system expert would be needed for
approximately 30 working days (two three-week sessions) for the development of a computer program to
be used in the Regional Customs for the speedy administration of IPR, Duty Drawback and Common
Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse schemes based on standard input-output coefficients and other import
and export documents. Two desktop computers in each regional Customs office would also be supported
under the project and five desktop Pentium computers and two printers to carry out the tasks of
estimating, publishing, and updating the standard input-output coefficients and duty drawback schedules.



- 78 -                                  AnnexGC
Institutional Development Component
23.          Study Tour. The project would support the participation of two individuals from the
Customs and Excise Department in the EPZ study tour referred to in the paragraphs below. The purpose
of this exercise is to acquaint these officials with the "best practices" in other notable countries where
anti-export biases in the Customs regime have been reduced and thus exports flourished but where the
integrity of customs duty collections has remained.
VII. Support to the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZ)
24.          Rationale. An efficient Export Processing Zone can be key to expanded export growth
an employment generation. Critical to this is the preparation of EPZ Customs Regime implementation
guidelines. Unlike EPZ Acts in a number of developing countries that stipulate a special custom regime,
the EPZ Act -- 1994 does not have a special provision on the custom regime. The Customs and Excise
(General Amendment) Regulations, 1995 (No. 7) includes provisions on the custom regime for EPZs.
However, these provisions are general. Assurance of the best practice EPZ custom regime will therefore
likely depend on the actual implementation of these provisions by Customs officials. In order to be
successful in inducing foreign and domestic investors into the EPZs, it is necessary to let the potential
investors know the clearly spelled out customs regulations to be applied to the EPZs.
25.          Program. As a first step to prepare EPZ implementation regulations, the project would
support a study tour to review best practice EPZs such as the Dominican Republic EPZ. A team of staff
from both the Customs and Excise Department and the EPZ Authority would travel to a select number of
destinations for this purpose. Subsequently, in order to assist the preparation of the EPZ custom regime
implementation regulations, the assistance of an external consultant who is an expert in EPZ customs
regimes would provide support in drafting such regulations for a period of approximately 70 working
days. Support would also be provided for two desktop computers for the EPZ Authority.
VIII. Support of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
26.          Rationale. In the last two years, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce has taken on
an increasing active role in economic planning and in its role vis-a-vis multilateral institutions. Its
staffing complement has indeed been weakened during the same period. The aim of this support would
be to provide training and computer support to MOIC staff in fulfilling its new mandate. The focus of
this support would be to strengthen MOIC's private sector unit (in coordination with an existing
NORAD-funded program) and improve its capacity for the coordination and management of multilateral
and bilateral-supported programs.
27.          Program. The project would provide US$100,000 funding for a series of focused
training sessions for MOIC staff on financial management, procurement, strategic planning, and
coordination of multilateral and bilateral organizations. Two desktop computers would also be financed,
as well as one printer.
IX. Operation and Support of the Project Administrative Secretariat
28.          The Operation of the Project Administrative Secretariat is indicated as Annex E. The
financing of the Secretariat would be as follows: The MOIC would second two staff to operate this unit
as well as would provide external facilities for it to operate. Cofinancing would, in addition, provide
financing for an additional Technical Adviser who could assist the work of the Secretariat as well as unit
managers of the ZMGS and Matchmaker Facility. It is estimated that the cost of the Technical Adviser
would cost US$540,000 over three years, and half of this individual's time (and budget) would be
dedicated to providing oversight of Institutional Development components and half to support of the
Business Services Component.



AnnexD
Outline of Project Functions
ZIMBABWE: Enterprise Development Project
Outline of Project Functions
$ from Special Account                                                     SME Finance (Zim$)
APEX
(Reserve Bank)               Pre- and Post- shipment Export
SME and Export Finance Funds                Finance (US$)
Participating
Guidance/                                                                                   Financial
Arbitration of                                           SME Credit Guarantee              Intermediaries
Select Issues
............... ..Credit Guarantee Agency/Fund
Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee                                                          Emerging
$                                Enterprises
Team        Guidance/Arbitration Decisionmaking Select Issues
Freign Partner andFia-
earrt ........... .... ----------- -- ........ *. .  ,Foreign PartnerandFcian-
Matchmaker/Export lDomestic                                           Suppo
Counterpan ~  ~     an
Direct
Administrative       . $                        ZMGS               Reformulated Matching Grant Program rGui-
and             .. ... ........    ... .................  . .dance
Technical         .Tearn_m
Specialist        .|                           SA                                    usco
.....  . 5  Administrator            b    ~Businessl
.    .    .........  ,                        ~~~~~~~~Associations
.                 ~~~~~RBZ Banking
.             b~~~~P  Supervision Dept.
.             g ~~~~Customs & ExciseI
$     Matching   0    ~~~Financial    l
s ,   -   ---tED UL:--



- 80 -                                  Annex
Administrative Secretariat
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operations of the Administrative Secretariat
1.           Functions - General. The objectives of the Administrative Secretariat are to serve as an
administrative arm of the Steering Team and to coordinate and manage the functions of the Institutional
Development component.
2.           Administrative Arm  of the Steering Team  and Overall Project Management
Functions. As an administrative arm of the Steering Team, the Secretariat's functions would be to: (i)
prepare agenda and minutes of meetings of the Steering Team and the Technical Committee of the
Steering Team, as directed by Steering Team members. This could include transmitting Steering Team
approvals and decisions, and, carrying out other actions as directed; (ii) transmitting quarterly progress
reports to the Steering Team and IDA, based on data provided by the respective component or
subcomponent managers and, in the case of the Institutional Development component, also preparing
such reports; (iii) coordinating the contractual process by which the Steering Team hires subcomponent
managers under the project, in accordance with the procurement guidelines specified, including
submitting requests for "no objection" and accompanying documentation as needed to IDA; (iv)
overseeing the transmission of applications, audit reports, certifications and/or rejections to the Steering
Team from financial institutions seeking to participate under the project's Finance Facility. In the case
of financial institutions judged partially eligible, the Secretariat would be responsible for ensuring that
the Steering Team has received progress reports on compliance with targets established for
recertification; (v) coordinating annual project auditing requirements; and (vi) assisting IDA supervision
missions in coordination of the evaluation of each component.
3.           Administration of the Institutional Development Component.  Functions in the
administration of the Institutional Development Component would include: (i) administering the
matching grant program for financial institutions (including reviews of applications and carrying out
outreach); (ii) overseeing that measures supported in the Customs and Excise Department and EPZ
Authority are carried out in accordance with parameters established in the SAR and Project
Implementation Plan; (iii) reviewing progress in the development program for SEDCO in relationship to
financing provided; (iv) preparing a quarterly budgetary reconciliation and progress reports for the
Steering Team and IDA on the level of commitments, disbursements and progress in reaching objectives
under each of the Institutional Development subcomponents; and (v) coordinating the contractual process
for services and goods contracted under the Institutional Development component, including submitting
requests for "no objection" and accompanying documentation as needed to IDA.
4.           Composition and Appointment. The Secretariat would be comprised by a Unit Head
and two assistants. The Unit Head and one assistant would be identified by the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce, subject to the no-objection of IDA. The Ministry would also supply the Secretariat with
office space, equipment and support to carry out its mandate. Both staff of the Unit would report to the
Steering Team.
5.           It is expected that the third individual, a Technical Adviser would provide part-time
assistance to the Secretariat (serving as one of the assistants) in addition to advisory roles under the
Business Services component. Such a Technical Adviser would be financed under the project.



Annex F
ZIMBABWE: Enterprise Development Project
Implementation Schedule
1996                                   1997                                   1998                                   1999
ID    Task Name                                                     Duratio         Start      Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4    Qtr 1   Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4    Qtr 1 | Qtr 2    Qtr3  | Qtr4    Qtr 1   Qtr 2    Qtr3  |Qtr4
1    I Financing Component - A. SME Financing                          187w         6/3/96
2          Appoint Apex Staff                                            21d        6/3/96
3          Develop Apex Operating Guidelines                              49d        7/1/96
4          Formalize Financial Intermediary Eligibility Cntena            49d        7/1/96
5          Develop SME Credit Line Guidelines                             49d        7/1/96
6          Issue SME Credit Line Guidelines                                Od        9/5/96                  *9/5
7    CertIfy Eligibility of Financial Intemiediafies                     860d  9/16/96                         _                                                                                                               _
8          Receive and Process Subloan Applications                     849d       10/1/96                       ___
9..
10   B. Export Financing                                                183w         7/1/96
11          Develop Export Finance Guidelines                             49d        7/1/96
12          Issue Export Finance Guidelines                                 Od       9/5/96                  *9/5
13          Receive and Proess Subloan Applications                      849d   10/1/96                                      -_                                                            _                            __|
15   C. SME Credit Guarantee Facility                                    187w        6/3/96
16          Appoint Credit Guarantee Agency Staff                          21d       6/3/96
17          Develop and Issue CGA Operating Procedures                     59d      6/17/96
18          Issue CGA Operating Procedures                                  Od       9/5/96                  *   9
19          Develop SME Guarantee Guidelines                              49d        7/1/96
20          Issue SME Guarantee Guidelines                                  Od        9/5/96                 *9/5
21          Receive and Process Guarantee Applications                   860d       9/16/96                                ._.
22          Receive and Process Applications for Payrent on Guarantees   828d    10/30/96                            __:
23                                                                                                                        1
Task                                                   Summary                                                Rolled Up Progress
Proje:ct./9                                         Progress                                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                 *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 1



Annex F
ZIMBABWE: Enterprise Development Project
Implementation Schedule
1996                                    1997                                     1998                    1                1999
ID   Task Name                                                         Duratio    Start   Qtr 2                            tQtr4   Qtrl  Qtr2   Qtr3  Qtr4
24    D. Export Finance Guarantee                                           187w         6/3/96
25          Appoint Credit Guarantee Agency Staff                             21d        6/3/96
26          Develop CGA Operating Procedures                                  59d       6/17/96
27          issue CGA Operabng Procedures                                       Od        9/5/96                   *9/5
28          Deveop SME Guarantee Guidelines                                   49d         7/1/96
29          Issue SME Guarantee Guidelines                                      Od        9/5/96                   * 9/5
30          Undertake Marketng Seminars on Export Finance                      3w       10/1/96
31          Receive and Process Guarantee Applicabons                       860d        9/16/96
32          Receive and Process Applications for Payment on Guarantees      828d    10/30/96                                     .
33
34    lI. Business Services Component                                     165.2w          6/5/96         _
35          Issue RFP, Receive Proposals, Appoint Dom Staff                  5.8w         6/5/96
36          Issue RFP, Receive Proposals, Appoint Foreign Consultants        5.8w         6/5/96
37          Develop SBAI Operating Procedures                                 16d       7/15/96
38          Issue SBAI Operabng Procedures                                      Od        8/5/96               *   8/5
39          Develop ZMGS Operating Procedures                                 16d       7/15/96
40          Issue ZMGS Operating Procedures                                     Od        8/5/96               *   8/
41          Develop Matchmaker Operabing Procedures                           16d       7/15/96
42          Issue Matchmaker Operating Procedures                               Od        8/5/96               *   85
43          Carry Out Component                                           156.6w          8/5/96
45    III. Institutional Development Component                              156w          6/3/96
46    A. Modemizabon of inpul-Outpul Coefficient Administration           112.4w          9/5/96 _
Task                                                      Summary                                                  Rolled Up Progress
Project:
Date: 4/1/96                                           Progress                                                 Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                                 Roled Up Milestone  <
Page 2



Annex F
ZIMBABWE: Enterprise Development Project
Implementation Schedule
1996                                    1997                                     1998                                      1999
ID   Task Name                                                          Duratio    Start   Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtr 1  Qtr2   Qtr3   Otr4   Qtr1| Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4   Qtr1  Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4
47          Conbt   Tean Leader                                               29d         9/5/96
48          Leader Develops aid Manages Progran                              521 d      11/1/96
49          Contract Input-Output Coefficient Expert 1                       4.8w         1/6/97
50          Development of Input-Output Coefficients                          26w         2/7/97
51          Issuance of Input-Output Coefficient Book                           Od        8/7/97                                                            81
52          Conbtrcl Input-Output Coefficient Expert 2                         4w       5/30/97
53          Deveowent of Input-Output Coefficients                            26w         7/1/97
54          Issuance of Revisions to Input-Output Coefficient Book              Od        8/7/97                                                        *   8/
55          Contract Input-Output Coefficient Expert 3                         4w         1/6/98
56          Development of Input-Output Coefficients                          26w       2/10/98
57          Issuance of Input-Output Coefiient Book                             Od      6/30/97                                                     *   6/30
58          Issuance of Input-Output Coefficient Book Revisions                 Od      6/30/98                                                                                              *   6/30
59          Devebpment of Revised Customrs Procedures                         26w       12/2/96
60          Issuance of Revised Customr  Procedures                             Od      5/30/97                                                 *   5/30
61
62    B. Inr creasing the Efficiency of Inwad Processing Zonse Duty Drawbc   16w          7/1/96
63          Establishment of Common Bonded Waehouse Guidelines                16w         711/96
64          Design of Study Tour                                               6w         7/1/96
65          Study Tour                                                         2w       8/12/96
66
67    C. Custors Procedures for Export Processing Zones                    51.2w        8/15/96
68          Appointment of EPZ Authority Board                                  Od      8/15/96
69          Consitution of EPZ Aulhority/Staffing                             12w       8/15/96
Task                                                      Summary                            _~ Rolled Up Progress
Prjete:/19                                              Progress                                                 Rolled Up Task _
Milestone                   *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 3



Annex F
ZIMBABWE: Enterprise Development Project
Implementation Schedule
1996                                     1997                                     1998                                     1999
ID    Task Name                                                         Duratio         Start       Qtr2    Qtr 3    Qtr4    Otr                                           Qtr1  | Qtr2  |Qtr3  |Qtr4    Qtr 1    Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4
70          Contract EPZ Authority Consultant                                4.8w         1/6/97
71          Devetoment of EPZ Implemening Regulations                         26w        27/797
72          Design of Study Tour                                               6w         1/6/97
73          Study Tour                                                         2w       2/17/97
74
75    D. Matching Grants for Strengthening the Capacity of Financial Instituti  164w    6/17/96           _                                                                                                        I                       r
76          Design of Matching Grant Operating Guidelines                      4w       6/17/96
77          Issuance ot Guidelines                                              Od      8/12/96
78          Operabon of Program                                             156w        8/12/96                                            _
79=.                                                                                                                                        
80    E. Strengthening SEDCO                                                  16w         6/3/96
81          Issuance of Revised Strategy Plan by SEDCO Mgmt                     Od        6/3/96
1                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
82          Conracting of Legal Consultant                                    21 d        6/3196
83          Consultant Support                                                59d         7/2/96
84          Contracting Debt-Recovery Consultant                              21 d       6/3/96
85          Consultant Support                                                59d        7/2/96
86          Contractng for tIe Purchase of Computers                          21 d       6/3/96
87          Computer Installation                                             59d         7/2/96
88..                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
89    F. Eligibility Assessments of Financial Insbtutions                 154.2w         711196             _
90          Issuance of Eligibility Coteria for Financial unstilutions          Od        7/1/96           *   7
91          Issuance of Audit Guidelines for Contracting                        Od        7/2/96
92          Administration of Eligibility Cert. Procedures                  154w          7/2/96             _
Task                                                      Summary                           _                      Rolled Up Progress
Project:
Date: 4/1/96                                           Progress                                                  Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                                 Rolled Up Milestone  K
Page 4



Annex F
ZIMBABWE: Enterprise Development Project
Implementation Schedule
1996                                   1997                                   1998                                   1999
ID    Task Name                                                     Duratio         Start       Qtr 2  | Qtr 3  | Qtr 4    Qtr 1   Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1   Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1   Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4
93
94    G. Reserve Bank - Banking Supervision                               16w         6/3/96
95          Issuance of Revised Strategy Plan by SEDCO Mgmt                 Od        6/3/96       *   6/3
96          Contractng of Legal Consultant                                 21 d      6/3/96
97          Consultant Support                                             59d        7/2/96
98          Contractng Debt-Recovery Consultant                            21 d       6/3/96          f
99          Consultant Support                                             59d        7/2/96
100         Contractng for the Purchase of Computers                       21 d       6/3/96
101          Computer Installabon                                           59d       7/2/96
102
103   H. Reserve Bank - APEX                                           108.6w        5/30/96
104          Contractng of Consultant                                       4w       5/30/96                                                                       ..
105         Consultant Support                                            104w        7/2/96
106
107   I. Reserve Bank - Guarantee Facility                             108.6w        5/30/96
108         Contracbng of Consultant                                        4w       5/30/96         -
109         Consultant Support                                            104w        7/2/96
110
111   J. Support of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce              108.6w        5/30/96
112          Contractng of Consultant                                       4w       5/30/96
113         Consultant Support                                           104w         7/2/96
Task                                                   Summary                          l                     Rolled Up Progress
Project:______ ___
Date: 4/1/96                                        Progress                                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                              Rolled Up Milestone  K
Page 5



-86-
Procurement
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
NCB         Q1hrr        NIE           Total
Project Component                                                                                 PrCMt
Finance Component
SME and Export Credit Finance Facilities                              60.0w         18.1           78.1
(60.0)                      (60.0)
Guarantee Facilities                                                                10.0            10.0
Business Services/Institutional Development Componeji1
Personal Computers and Office Equipment                   0.1-                                     0.2
(0.1)       (0.1)                        (0.2)
Consultants' Services                                                   8.8          6.9            15.7
(8.8)                       (6.3)
Training                                                                1.0          1.0            2.0
(1.0)                       (1.0)
Total                                                         0.1          69.9        36.0           106.0
(0.1)       (69.9)                      (70.0)
NIF - Not IDA-financed. Amounts in parenthesis are the amounts IDA financed.
Note: Bank Standard Bidding Documents will be used for ICR and sample Letters of Invitation (LOI) for selection of consultants.
aL   All ICB procurement documents and arrangements will be subject to prior review  by IDA.  Although the latter
requirement could be applied in the event of the modification of the size of subprojects, these requirements would not be
binding in the project's current form.
bL Procurement would be required according to local shopping procedures for any single contract totaling US$30,000 or less.
For each contract costing more than US$30,000, but less than US$100,000, procurement would be made by National
Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB). Contracts in excess of US$100,000 would be made in accordance with
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. All NCR and ICR procurement documents and arrangements would
be subject to prior review by IDA.



- 87 -                                     Annex H
Disbursement
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
(US$ million)
(Percent in Parentheses)
Category                                           Amount       % of Expenditures Financed
(1) Finance Component                                60.0       100% of amounts disbursed
(85.7)
Business Services/Institutional Development
100% of amounts disbursed
(2) Matching Grants
PFIs                                          0.4
(0.6)
Other Items                                   4.1
(5.9)
(3) Goods                                             0.1       100% of foreign expenditures,
(0. 1)     100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(4) Training and Consultant Services                            100% of amounts disbursed
EPZ Authority                                 0.1
(0.1)
SEDCO                                         0.1
(0. 1)
Other Items                                   3.4
(4.9)
(5) Unallocated                                       1.8
(2.6)
Total                                                70.0
(100.0)
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ Millions Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year        1997   i998       1999    2000    2001       2002      2003
Annual                  4.2     5.6     11.2     14.0     14.0      11.2       9.8
Cumulative              4.2     9.8     21.0     35.0     49.0     60.2       70.0



- 88 -                                           Annex I
Project Supervision Plan
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
1.              IDA Supervision. The input indicated in Table 11 below  indicates an estimate of the
total IDA staff and consultant resources required for the supervision of this Project. This includes: Task
Manager supervision, specialist support, particularly in the export finance, SME Finance and business
services areas, and support by a local specialist in the Resident Mission working one-third time for a
period of three years.
Table 11: Estimated Staff Weeks for Project Supervision
FY96  FY97   FY98   FY99  FY00  FY01   FY02  FY03  ICR.   Total
Task Manager- in Field                  3      4       4       4      4      4       4             2      29
SME Finance Specialist                  2      2               2                                           6
Export Finance Specialist               2      2               2                                           6
Business Services Specialist            2      3        1      2                                           8
Institutional Development Specialist           2               2                                           4
Subtotal - Field                       9     13       5      12      4      4       4      0      2      53
Task Manager- Headquarters              7     11       11     11     11      11     11      3      8      84
Resident Mission - Local Project Specialist  2  15     15     15      8      8                            63
TOTAL                                 18     39      31      38     23     23      15      3      10    200
2.              Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. Project counterparts will have supervision
responsibilities as follows:
Table 12: Responsible Counterparts for Project Supervision
Responsible     Issue Area                Content
Authority
Project         Overall Project           *   Submit quarterly  progress  reports  to  IDA  based  on  the
Administrative   Implementation               compilations  of other  counterparts  indicating  progress  in
Secretariat                                   implementation;
*   Project review  meetings with the participation of the various
project agencies to be held during the semi-annual supervision
missions;
*   Interact and accompany IDA supervision missions; and
*   Compile and submit annual audit reports on Project Accounts,
special accounts, statements of expenditures within six months
after the end of the Government fiscal year.
Direction and Progress    .   Submit quarterly progress reports to Administrative Secretariat
of Institutional             (IDA) indicating the progress in disbursement as well as progress
Development                  in reaching the objectives as indicated by monitoring indicators;
and
*   Monitor disbursements and request categorical reallocations to
Steering Team as necessary.



- 89 -                                       Annex I
Project Supervision Plan
Project        Overall Project Design    *  Review with supervision missions the progress in achieving project
Steering Team   and Implementation        objectives, including recommendations for project modification as
may be necessary; and
*  Review  progress  against monitoring  indicators  in  Project
Implementation Plan.
Apex           Progress in SME and     .  Submit bi-annual progress  reports  to  the  Administrative
Export Finance             Secretariat  and  to  IDA   indicating  progress  in  credit
Facilities and             disbursements, repayments, SME and export development;
participation of financial  .  Monitor project activities and the meeting of objectives as
intermediaries             indicated in monitoring indicators; and
*  Compile and submit annual audit reports on PFIs' financial
statements, as well as special audits performed with respect to
eligibility criteria as necessary.
Credit         Progress in SME and     *  Submit bi-annual progress reports to the Administrative Secretariat
Guarantee      Export Finance              and to IDA indicating Guarantee coverage, guarantee certificates
Agency         Guarantee Schemes           issues, data on credits guaranteed, and financial stocks and flows of
Credit Guarantee Funds; and
a  Monitor project activities and the meeting of objectives as
indicated in monitoring indicators.
ZimTrade,      Progress in the Zimtrade  .  Submit bi-annual progress reports to IDA indicating levels of
ZMGS           Matching Grant Scheme       matching grants, budgetary expenditures, progress in reaching
Management                                 subcomponent objectives as measured by monitoring indicators;
Team                                      and
-  Work in partnership with supervision mission in evaluating
subcomponent progress.
Matchmaking    Progress in Establishing   *  Submit bi-annual progress reports to the Administrative Secretariat
Management    Matches/Export               and to IDA  indicating levels of matching grants, budgetary
Contractor     Catalysts that Result in    expenditures, progress in reaching subcomponent objectives as
Sustainable Export         measured by monitoring indicators; and
Relationships          a  Work in partnership with supervision mission in evaluating
subcomponent progress.
3.             Supervision Issues. The following are the principal issues which will require review on
an ongoing basis:
(a)    Implementation experience in terms of efficiency and client responsiveness by the Steering
Team and Administrative Secretariat;
(b)    Size, quality and implementation experience of SME Finance Fund, Export Finance Fund;
SME Credit Guarantee Facility and Export Finance Guarantee Facility;
(c)    Progress and implementation experience in the SBAI Initiative;
(d)    Progress and implementation experience in supporting emerging exporters through the
ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme;
(e)    Progress and implementation experience in supporting emerging enterprises through the
Matchmaking Facility;



- 90 -                                        Annex I
Project Supervision Plan
(f)    Progress and  implementation experience in reaching the policy and  institutional
development objectives supported by the Institutional Development Component;
(g)    Review of complementary initiatives by Government, the private sector or other donors,
including USAID's Credit Guarantee Facility;
(h)    Review with Government and private sector officials the status of their commitment to
the objectives and components in the Project;
(i)    Review of procurement procedures being applied;
(j)    Review of disbursements, including examination of back-up documentation for SOEs
and other accounts; and
(k)    Review of audited accounts.
4.             Content and Timing of Supervision Missions:  The following are the content and
timing of supervision missions:
Table 13: Content and Timing of Supervision Missions
Date         Activity                                       Resources                        Staff
Weeks
May, 1996    Pre-effectiveness and Project Launch mission;  Task Manager, SME Finance           9
Review of conditions of Effectiveness; review of   Specialist, Trade Finance Specialist,
project implementation arrangements; review of    Business Services Specialist
procurement documents and procedures.
August,      Items 3(a) through 3(k) above.                 Task Manager, SME Finance           7
1996                                                        Specialist, Business Services
Specialist, Local Specialist
December,   Items 3(a) through 3(k) above                   Task Manager, Trade Finance         6
1996                                                        Specialist, Local Specialist
June 1997    Items 3(a) through 3(k) above                  Task Manager, Local Specialist      4
December    Items 3(a) through 3(k) above                   Task Manager, Business Services     5
1997                                                        Specialist, Local Specialist
June 1998    Items 3(a) through 3(k) above                  Task Manager, Local Specialist      4
December    Mid-Term review (See para. 5)                   Task Manager, SME Finance           12
1998                                                        Specialist, Trade Finance Specialist,
Business Services Specialist,
Institutional Development
Specialist, Local Specialist
June 1999    Items 3(a) through 3(k) above                  Task Manager, Local Specialist      4
December    Items 3(a) through 3(1) above                   Task Manager                        2
1999
June 2000    Items 3(a) through 3(k) above                  Task Manager                        2



- 91 -                                     Annex/
Project Supervision Plan
December
2000        Items 3(a) through 3(k) above               Task Manager                      2
June 2001    Items 3(a) through 3(k) above;             Task Manager                      2
December    .  Items 3(a) through 3(k) above;           Task Manager
2001        .  Review of information requirements and
procedures for Implementation Completion
June 2002    Project completion mission. Preparation of  Task Manager                     2
Implementation Completion Report
5.            Items for Mid-Term  Review. The following are the principal items for Mid-Term
Review:
*      Progress with implementing components of the project in relation to established monitoring
indicators;
*      The adequacy of institutional arrangements including the operation and efficiency of the Steering
Team and Administrative Secretariat and implementation of the various components of the
project;
*      Progress in the implementation of the SME Finance and Guarantee Facilities;
*      Progress in the implementation of the Export Finance and Guarantee Facilities;
*      Random review of progress in individual SMEs and Exporters;
*      An assessment of the refinancing rates and the evolution of PFIs interest rate spreads;
*      Progress in the development of emerging enterprises -- SME's and Exporters -- income and
employment generation and sustainability of such enterprises;
*      Progress in the implementation of the Business Services Component, including the SBAI
Initiative, ZMGS, and Matchmaking Facility;
*      Review of procurement status for all project components; and
*      Progress in conducting institutional development programs.



- 92 -                                        AnnexJ
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
1.             Many of this project's benefits are difficult to measure because the project supports the
acceleration of a process that leads to an outcome rather than a concrete outcome directly. Nevertheless,
the best estimate is that the project would generate a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$52 million at a
discount rate of 12 percent and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 24.7%. This estimate is based on a
methodology whereby the project is assumed to accelerate an increase in output by three years. Such
an increase in output is therefore expected be realized without the project, albeit three years later.
Table J I below summarizes the quantitative results of the analysis undertaken, including ERR and NPV
calculations done on a subcomponent and on an aggregated basis. Chart JI indicates graphically the
effects in net increases in direct economic output by support provided under the project. A summary of
the principal assumptions is indicated below .
Table Jl: Economic Analysis Summary
(US$ Millions)
Present             Economic
Value of Net    Net     Rate
Increases in   Present   of
Output     Value     Return
1. SME Finance                    38.2        1.4      13%
2. Export Finance                 80.3       29.0      26%
3. SBAI Matching Grants            7.8        4.7      42%
4. ZMGS Matching Grants           19.8       12.5      51%
5. Matchmaking Facility            7.2        4.2      46%
6. Institutional Development       2.6        0.4      16%
7. Contingencies                              0.0      12%
Total                            156.0       52.1     24.7%
2.             Methodology. The methodology of the assessment was as follows:
*  For the Business Services component, matching grants for emerging exporters (ZMGS Matching
Grants) is expected to accelerate an increase in output for these firms of 10 times the amount of the
matching grant.  Although empirical data in other, primarily East-Asian countries, indicated
increases in output of at least 15 times, this analysis used more conservative assumptions (of 10
times). This expected increase in output was then reduced by two thirds. This reduction in net
benefits is based on an assumption of the level of resources expected to be diverted from other
economic activities to achieve this result. The process of providing matching grants for Business
Associations leads to a more indirect result. However, for purposes of consistency, a similar
methodology was applied, with an expectation of an accelerated increase in output in accordance
with the increase in membership and level of provision of services provided by associations. For the
Matchmaking Facility, given its similarity to ZMGS matching grants for purposes of economic
analysis, a similar accelerated increase in output was assumed -- ten times the level of support,
reduced by 2/3 as above.
The full tables indicating the precise results by component and subcomponent are available in the Project Files. The analysis of benefits
methodology is adapted from Levy. Berry and Nugent, "Successful SMEs and Their Support Systems," forthcoming, mimeo, 1996.



-93-                                            AnnexJ
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
Table J2: Cash Flow and Output Determinants of Economic Results
(US$ '000)
IDA    Proiect            Net Increase in Economic Output Owing to Proiect b/
Cost    Cost    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Year 6   Year 7
1. SME Finance             25,000   -36,875    1,042    5,990   13,906  17,812   13,854    5,937   990
2. Expor Finance           35,000   -51,270    2,187   12,578   29,203  37,406   29,094   12,469  2,078
3. SBAI                     1,400    -3,115     187      960    2,387   3,507   3,200      1,773   467
4. ZMGS Matching Grant      3,765    -7,253     833    3,750    7,917   9,167   6,250      2,083
5. Matchmaking Facility     1,750    -3,050     450    1,575    2,925   3,150   2,025       675
6. Institutional Development  1,360    -2,240                     420     980   1,540      1,120   560
7. Contingencies a/         1,725    -2,197     475      475      475     475     475       475   475
Total                       70,000  -106,000    5,174   25,328   57,233  72,497   56,438   24,533  4,569
a/ A cash-flow amount was interpolated for contingencies in order to arrive as a 12% ERR (zero NPV) so as not to skew the results for the
project total.
b/ Reduced by 2/3.
*   The Finance component is expected to accelerate an increase in output by SMEs and emerging
exporters by reducing the funding constraint and by reducing the level of risk through the guarantee
mechanism. Increases in output for SMEs were assumed to be equal to the amount of financing,
with a lag of 6 months after disbursement to realize the output results. This assumes that investment
and permnanent working capital financing yield a rapid increase in output. Inputs are assumed to
turnover twice per year and a five percent default rate per year is assumed. Increases in output of
emerging exporters were assumed to be the amount of export financing, based on an expectation of
turnover three times per year, with a similar five percent default rate per year. The estimated
increases in output for SMEs and emerging exporters was, as above, reduced by 2/3.
*   Measurement of the economic benefits of Institutional Development support is the most difficult,
because support only yields provision of services to firms indirectly. Nonetheless, for the purpose of
consistency, it was assumed that this support would accelerate an increase in output, staggered two
years after disbursements, equal to 1.5 times the level of support. In the case of matching grants for
PFIs (part of the Institutional Development Component), output by PFIs was assumed to increase by
five times the amount of the matching grant, also 2 years after disbursement.
3.              Results. The above analysis yielded a series of accelerated increases in output levels per
sub-component. The same scenarios were then repeated, albeit, staggered three years behind the first
analysis. This is based upon the assumption that the principal result is the acceleration of a process by
three years. As indicated in Table J2 and Chart JI below, the final economic results are represented by
the present value calculations of the difference between the first scenario of increases in output resulting
from the project and the same scenario, three years behind it. The results suggest that the overall project
can be strongly justified in NPV and ERR terms. The Business Services subcomponents had much
stronger projected rates of return (42%-51%) that the Finance subcomponents (13%-26%).  The
downside risks are borne out through sensitivity analysis below:
4.              Sensitivity Analysis.  As indicated in Table J3, Sensitivity Analysis was performed
yielding the following results:   First, given  the possibility  of more gradual disbursement and
implementation owing to macroeconomic circumstances and slow progress in developing the
implementing institutions, an analysis was made of a slower disbursement process. By elongating the
disbursement period from approximately 4 years for all components to approximately 6 years (finance
component) and business services and institutional development from 3 years to 5 years, the effect for
the project was to reduce the NPV from US$52.1 million to US$40.7 million and the ERR from 24.7% to



- 94 -                                     Annex
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
21.1%. This suggests that a slower implementation period will not have a material effect on the
economic impact of the project.
Chart JI: Summary of Project Economic Effects
250,000,000 
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa
X           /~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~Without
,   200,000,000                                                                  Project
E
 150,000,000            /                                                 /Total With
zzJ: 4&                                    /Project
LU
'D 100.000,000     Z       
50,000,000    X           - m  . ..-Net Effect
S    50,000,000  S          __g/                 ,_ 
z 
0                                                     -
2     3     4      5     6      7     8      9     1C      af -Net Effect
Years                                  Adjustment
5.            The second evaluation was to modify the reduction in the level of output attributed to
diversion from other sources. In this case, by increasing the reduction from 66.7% (the base case) to
75%, the NPV remained still significantly positive ($13.1 million) and reducing the level of reduction to
50% increased the NPV quite significantly to US$130.1 million. Thus, although the outcomes are
sensitive to the effects of modifying this variable, all of the outcomes present positive NPVs within the
parameters (50%-75% reduction) established in the theoretical foundation for this approach.
6.            An evaluation was conducted of the Finance component, testing how changes in the
assumed rate of turnover of the firms financed would effect the economic results (using the evaluation of
the three year lag as per above). The base case assumes that, in the case of SMEs, turnover would be
twice per year (in accordance with company discussions), with output increasing at the level of
financing. In the case of emerging exporters, turnover is assumed to be three times per year, with output
increasing at the level of financing. In the case of SMEs, by reducing the assumed level of turnover from
two times per year to one time, the subcomponent resulted in a negative NPV. The break-even point was
1.93 times turnover per year. This suggests that the downside risk in these terms is relatively significant.
In undertaking the same analysis for exporters, the results are similar (given that the calculation is
similar). The base case assumes that, in the case of emerging exporters, turnover would be three times
per year (in accordance with company discussions), with output increasing at the level of financing. In
this case, the break-even point was a similar 1.92 cycles per year but even reducing the cycles to 2 per
year still yielded a positive NPV. This suggests that to the degree to which output is affected by the
ability of firms supported to increase production is the same for exporters as for SMEs, the downside risk
is less for exporters because the marginal increase in output is greater given the shorter production cycle.
7.            The evaluation of the Business Services Component was first examined changing the
expected increase in output of firms under the SBAI subcomponent as a function of support of business
associations. First, firms participating in associations supported by the program and firms joining these
associations under the base case were assumed to increase output by US$10,000. When this amount was
reduced to US$5,000, the NPV was reduced from US$4.7 million (42% ERR) to US$0.8 million (18%
ERR), with the break-even point (in terms of NPV) at US$4,000 per firm. This means that if
participating firms do not increase their output by US$4,000 over the period, the project will have been



- 95 -                                     Annex J
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
unsuccessful in the sense of yielding a 12% ERR. For the ZimTrade Matching Grant, the analysis
evaluated the impact of changing the expected increase in output for each firm from the base case of 10
(I$ of matching grant accelerates a US$10 increase in output). The results here were that the multiple
goes as low as 3.66 before the NPV would become negative. On the upside, an assumption of a multiple
of 15 (consistent with East Asian experience) yields an NPV of $22.4 million (ERR of 72%). Sensitivity
analysis for the Matchmaking Facility yielded a somewhat similar result. If output by affected firms
were to increase by five times the level of grants (as opposed to the base case of ten times), the NPV
becomes US$0.6 million (18% ERR). The break-even point is for output to increase 4.2 times the level
of grants. However, the upside potential indicates that if output increases 15 times the level of grants,
then the NPV rises to $7.8 million (ERR 68%). This suggests that the Matchmaking Facility could reach
less than half its output expectations and still be considered successful.
8.            The evaluation of the Institutional Development component first examined changing the
relationship between the level of support and the expected level of output. The base case assumed that
for each US$1 of support, output increased by a multiple of 1.5 times the support, albeit two years after
disbursement. Changing the ratio of increases in output to support from 1.5 to 1.0 resulted in a negative
NPV of US$ 100,000 (ERR I I%). The break-even point to reach the 12% ERR threshold is for output to
increase 1.1 times the level of support, two years after disbursement. Separately, an evaluation was done
of the PFI Matching Grant Facility. The base case assumed that output of PFIs would increase at a rate
five times the level of the matching grant, yielding an NPV of US$0.4 million (ERR 16%). The break-
even point for this subcomponent was found at the point where the increase in output is equal to 3.5
times the matching grant support. Thus even by very conservative assumptions, this subcomponent
seems to have a relatively low threshold to be considered successful in these terms.
9.            Performance indicators are provided in the Project Implementation Plan. A summary of
these indicators is indicated in Table J4. Many of the performance indicators are inputs for the economic
assessment methodology.



- 96 -                                          AnnexJ
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
Table J3: Sensitivity Analysis Summary
Scenario            Sensitivity Analysis        Cases           Variable            NPV            ERR
Performed                               Amount           (S Millions)      cm
Overall Project
Delayed Project    Elongated Disbursement  Base Case         Reg. Disbrsmnt.             $52.1         24.7
Implementation    Schedule                Alternate          Slow Disbrsmnt.               40.7        21.1
Change in         Percent reduction in     Base Case         66.7% Reduction               52.1        24.7
Diversion         increase in output       Alternate         50% Reduction                 13.1        15.5
Assumption        attributed to diversion  Alternate         75% Reduction                130.1        39.7
from other sources.
Finance Component
SME Finance       Assumed Turnover/year   Base Case          2 times/year                   1.4         13
Fund                                       High Case         3 times/year                  20.5         26
Low Case          I time/year                 -17.8           5
Break-even Case   1.93 times/year                0.0          12
Export Finance    Assumed Turnover/year   Base Case          3 times/year                 29.0          26
Fund                                       High Case         4 times/year                  55.8         37
Low Case          2 times/year                   2.3         13
Break-even Case   1.915 times/year               0.0         12
Business Services Component
SBAI Matching    Increase in output per   Base Case          $10,000/firm                   4.7         42
Grants            firm in associations per   High Case       $20,000/firm                  12.5         73
year.                   Low Case          $ 5,000/firm                   0.8          18
Break-even Case   $ 4,000/firm                    0           12
ZMGS Matching    Export output increase    Base Case                       10              12.5         51
Grants            as a multiple of the     High Case                       15              22.4         72
amount of Matching      Low Case                         5               2.6          22
Grants.                 Break-even Case               3.66               0.0          12
MM Facility        Export output increase    Base Case                     10               4.2         46
Matching Grants   as a multiple of Amount  High Case                       15               7.8         68
of Matching Grants.     Low Case                         5               0.6          18
Break-even Case                4.2               0.0         12
Institutional Development Component
PFI Matching      Export output increase    Base Case                       5               0.4         16
Grants            as a multiple of Amount  High Case                       10               1.7         26
of Matching Grants.     Break-even Case                3.5               0.0          12
Institutional     Increase in output as a    Base Case                    1.5               0.4         16
Development       multiple of Project      High Case                      2.0               0.8         19
(Non-PFI          Support.                 Low Case                       1.0              -0.1         11
Matching Grants)                           Break-even Case                1.1               0.0         12



- 97 -                                         AnnexJ
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
Chart J2: Sensitivity Analysis: Elongated Disbursement Scenario
300,000,000
-*- +  Total With
Project
250,000,000-                 ;-Projed
S  200,000,000 -U- /-                                                               Total
a.
S                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Without
o                                    -                                             Project
'  150,000,000    ------------t------
100,000,000                                                     - - -           Net Effect
50,000,000      S     X  -                          --  -.--- ----
-x.                -~~~
O j                                       _            .... -X-  /   X^ .  -' fflF --- -X- Net Effect
0                                                            _NAfter
1     2      3      4     5      6      7      8     9      11       Adjustment
Year
Main Assumptions
A. All Components
I. Increases in output are assumed to be accelerated by a period of three years. Such increases in
output are therefore e-xpected to have been realized without the project, albeit three years later.
2. Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return calculations done based on the difference in
increases in output between two scenarios, with and without the project respectively.
3. The results of the differences in marginal output under the two scenarios is reduced by 67%. This
is based on the assumption that two-thirds of the increase in output is assumed to be attributed to
effects drawing away resources from other activities.
4. ERR and Net Present Value calculation done for a ten-year period, assuming the full project costs
are expended up-front2.
B. Business Services Component
1. SBAI. Assumes 17 subsector associations supported through development support and 36 through
matching grant support (US$10,000 in development support and US$30,000 in matching grants).
Assumes average association supported has 14 members, all of which increase by 2 members each
year. Assumes average firm in each association supported increases output by US$10,000 per year
attributable to membership in the association and support provided to the association. Increase in
output has a lag of six months after disbursement of SBAI matching grant.
2. ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme. Assumes 60 firms supported through ZimTrade matching
grants (US$50,000 in matching grants for each firm). Assumes that the increase in exports is equal
to 10 times the level of the ZimTrade matching grant, with a lag of 6 months after matching grant
provided.
3. Matchmaking Facility. Assumes 40 matchmaker transactions supported over three years and
US$30,000 provided to each matchmaker. Assumes 90% of matchmaker transactions supported
2
If one were to calculate the project's costs over the entire disbursement periods, the Net Present Value and ERR calculations would
increase.



- 98 -                                     Annex)
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
result in export transactions and such transactions result in an average level of export transaction is
10 times the level of matchmaker support, with a lag of 6 months after matching grant provided.
C. Finance Component
1. Disbursements are assumed over a four year period: 20% year 1, 30% year 2, 30% year 3, and 20%
year 4. This is more rapid than the disbursement period given in Schedule A.
2. Output is assumed to increase at a rate equal to new disbursements, with a lag of 6 months. This
means that in the case of SME financing, investment and permnanent working capital costs are
assumed to result in an increase in output, with turnover twice per year. In the case of Export
financing, turnover is assumed to be three times per year. Increase in output was conservatively
assumed to be working capital costs. No additional output results were assumed from labor inputs
or profit.
3. Five percent of total output each year is assumed to be lost due to firms falling into arrears or
bankruptcy.
D. Institutional Development Component
I. Assumes that each type of institutional development support (with the exception of matching
grants for financial institutions) results in 1.5 times increase in output, accruing two years after
disbursement.
2. Assumes that matching grants for financial institutions results in an increase in output equal to the
level of the matching grant plus the institution's contribution times five, accruing two years after
disbursement.
3. Scenario calculated without project assumes same increases in output, albeit five years after
disbursement (three years after realizing such an effect under the project).
Nature of Benefits
* Acceleration of increase in output by emerging enterprises.
* Incremental employment generation by emerging enterprises.
* Improved financial sector efficiency in financing emerging enterprises.
* Increase in output and efficiency by established enterprises as specialization and provision of
services by emerging enterprises help established ones.
Main Beneficiaries
Approximately 500 Zimbabwean firms are estimated to benefit from SME financing and 350 firms
from Export financing. Approximately 53 associations and 900 firms are estimated to benefit from the
Subsector Business Associations Initiative, 60 firms from the ZimTrade Matching Grant program, and
40 from the Matchmaking Facility. The individual beneficiaries would thus be the principals and
employees of the firms affected. More generally, the financial markets will benefit as they improve
their efficiency as well the markets for business services.
Non-quantified Benefits
* Improved awareness of economic opportunities which does not directly result in increases in
output and employment by the firms supported.
* Secondary and tertiary effects of increases in output.
* Development of know-how put to use beyond the enterprises supported.



-99-                                         AnnexJ
Economic Analysis - Project Performance Indicators
Table J4: Summary Performance Indicators3
Component       Performance Indicator                                                   Timing
Business      *  Appointment of SBAI Administrator, Establishment of SBAI Operating      Mid-1996
Services          Guidelines, Operational Brochure, Application Form
*  Establishment of ZMGS Management Team, ZMGS Guidelines, Operational
Brochure, Application Form
*  Appointment of MM Management Contractor, Issuance of MM Guidelines,
Operational Brochure, Application Form
*  Timely Project Start                                                   Mid-1996
*  Matching Grants for Emerging Exporters                                In accordance w/
*  Matching Grants for Business Associations                              projection in PIP
*  Matches Established Under Matchmaking Facility
Financing     *  Timely Establishment of Apex Unit                                       Mid-1996
+  Timely Project Start                                                   Mid- 1996
*  Timely Establishment of Credit Guarantee Agency                        End- 1996
*  Sub-loans Committed for Emerging Exporters                             In accordance w/
projection in PIP
*  Sub-loans Committed for SMEs
*  Increase in Output of Emerging Exporters
*  Increase in Employment by SMEs and Emerging Exporters
Institutional   *  Strengthening the Capacity of Financial Intermediaries to Intermediate SME  In accordance w/
Development       Loans - Net Increases in SBU loans.                                   projection in PIP
*  Strengthening SEDCO in sharpening its Financial Administration and
Strategic Focus.- Reductions in administrative costs per loan; reductions in
arrears; increase in number of SMEs graduating to commercial financing.
*  Strengthening Reserve Bank Financial Institution Supervision - Issuance of
Capital Adequacy, Loan Classification Guidelines, revised format of financial
reporting, system for monitoring compliance with prudential regulations,
issuance of manual for off-site and on-site examinations, training program for
BSD staff, Inspection of commercial banks (number of institutions).
*  Development of RBZ Apex Unit and Credit Guarantee functions - Issuance of
Operational Guidelines for Export and SME Finance Facilities; Issuance of
integrated application form and instructions (include for guarantees); issuance
of preshipment export finance guarantee guideline book; Conduct training
seminars for Apex Unit staff, CGA staff, Fl's staff, and direct and indirect
exporters; Issue operating procedures for Apex and CGA; Completion of
marketing campaign; Issuance of RBZ Guidelines on back-to-back domestic
L/C system and post-shipment export bill discounting;
*  Support of the Customs and Excise Department in its Automation and
Increasing Efficiency - Improvement of the administration of Inward
Processing Zone and Duty Drawback Systems; establishment and
modernization of Input-Output Coefficients; establishment of Common
Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme.
*  Strengthening the Ministry of Industry and Commerce - focused training
sessions for staff. Ability of Staff to carry out increasingly complex functions.
3
A more detailed listing of the Performance Indictors is indicated in the Project Implementation Plan.



-100-                                    AnnexK
Documents Available in the Project File
ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
I.    Enterprise Finance in Zimbabwe, Regional Program on Enterprise Development, Africa
Technical Department, The World Bank, April, 1995.
2.    Impediments Confronting Infonrnal Sector Enterprises in Zimbabwe, Imani Development Ltd,
Harare, Draft, Mimeo, 1990.
3.    The Manufacturing Sector in Zimbabwe, Regional Program on Enterprise Development, Africa
Technical Department, The World Bank, Country Study Series, First Report on the Round 11
RPED Survey Data; October, 1994.
4.     Micro and Small Scale Enterprises in Zimbabwe: Results of a Country-wide Survey, Gemini
Technical Report 25, Gemini-Development Alternatives Inc., 1991.
5.     SME Finance Facility: Draft Subsidiary Financing Agreement; Mimeo, October, 1995.
6.    Tourism PHRD Initiative, Draft Final Report, CHL Consulting Group, February, 1996.
7.    Zimbabwe, Consolidating the Trade Liberalization; UNDP/World Bank Trade Expansion
Program, 1994.
8.    Zimbabwe Garment and Textile PHRD Initiative, Final Report, Kurt Salmon Associates,
February, 1996.
9.    Zimbabwe: Achieving Shared Growth, Country Economic Memorandum (Two Volumes), The
World Bank, 1995.
10.   Zimbabwe's New Entrepreneurs: An Emerging Success Story? The World Bank, Mimeo,
October 1995.



ZAMBIA                   4yK  w                                                      To
Morobuk;  .                 u
Ha/Hannrem  ),               / 0ZAMBIA                                                                ;              .                         .                      MOZAMBIQUE 
NAMIJBIA \   ZIMBABWE                                                                       Kar INDIiba
OCEAN                                                                                                                                       It'.
BOTSWANA        -                                                                 ,          -                              Mhongura                           0  Mt.Drwi
SOULTH                                                                                                KCrIo
AFRICA   .                                                                                                                                      urwi
2E'             g         t>,                _  <                    .  /  Raff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1inga,c          Shamvanur        ,,/<
NAMIBiA        To Muobe-                                        7                   r      '                            CHINHOY            I Ba     tMIoetko
To Cho..o                              Bingo                                                           Trelow  ey
o           Foils                                    / I|                                                                       Darwendole
~~ ; Vidor@t ._. ' IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RARE, /
0>   \  ;2                                                    s-                                           Chegut         heua                                r
'UN\t                                                                                                           .aomf                                           Marondera  I            Julisd le
,4              H~~~wonge 
-1-               Dete               ~~~~~~~~Tshotshtolo
Lupane                            u                           wkwe                                     t                <                 )
*              ~~~~Redcliffo
Tsholotsho                      N    man        dhlov                      Sh ruq&w5.,/
o  Ny mandhlovu~~~~~~~~~~~maHvaNyk
ZIMBABWE                                                                                                                                       MAs>jv N'-ka
MAJOR STATE ROADS                             Plumtree                                        Zvish
-       RAILROADS                                                            Figiree
MAJOR RIVERS                               To                                                                                                   Jerera
NATIONAL CAPITAL
4.  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
      OTHER AIRPORTS                                     '.                ..           Gwanda
      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                      Mwenezi
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                            /   The  boundaries, colors,
/denominations and any
--;P                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~other inforomation shorun
o n  th,s  map  do  riot
imply,  on  the  part of
>                                                                                                                                                 The Worid  Bank  Group,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TeWrd   akGop
KILOMETERS  0           50          100          150                                                                                                                                 any judgment on the legal
0 Beitbridge                              To Mepu.       o status  of any  territory,
--MILES    -                                                                             5-   loo r- -                                                                         or any  endorsement
(0~ ~  ~ ~~IE   a                        50                   as                           I                             To                                                                   oracerptance of such 
-              Pret~~~Ori-                                                             boundries.









IMAGING
Report No:       15062 ZIM
Type: SAR



