Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25661
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-285 10)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR47.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 28, 2003
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 6, 2003)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Zim$1 = US$ 55.4
US$ 1 = Zim$0.0180343
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFID                     Department for International Development
EDP                      Enterprise Development Project
EPZs                     Export Processing Zones
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
IDA                      International Development Association
PFIs                     Participating financial intermediaries
RBZ                      Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
SBAI                     Sub-sector Business Associations Initiative
SME                      Small and medium-scale enterprises
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:  Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sherri Ellen Archondo



ZIMBABWE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPM
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           I
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8 Lessons Learned                                                                   13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                          14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                18
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                 19
Annex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   22
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                                23






Project ID P035628                                       |Project Name. ENTERPRISE DEVELOPM
Team Leader. Sherri Ellen Archondo                        TL Unit. AFTFS
ICR Type Core ICR                                        |Report Date March 28, 2003
1. Project Data
-Aame. ENTERPRISE DEVELOPM                           L/C/TF Number IDA-28510
Country/Department ZIMBABWE                                              Region  Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector. General industry and trade sector (62%); Micro- and
SME finance (37%); Central government
administration (I%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD    03/30/1994                             Effective. 06/30/1996         04/07/1997
Appraisal.  10/10/1995                                MTR    06/30/1999         05/24/1999
Approval   04/25/1996                              Closing  12/31/2002          12/31/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency.  Government of Zimbabwe (Ministry of Finance)/Ministry of Industry and
Commerce
Other Partners
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President       Callisto E. Madavo                        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager      Yaw Ansu                                  Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager       Demba Ba                                  M. Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader at ICR:  Sherri Archondo                           Mark Charles Dorfman
ICR Primary Author   Marilyn S. Manalo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome U
Sustainabilit': UN
Institutional Developnient Impact M
Bank Performance. S
Borrow,ver Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In 1991, Zimbabwe embarked on a significant structural adjustment and liberalization program to



accelerate and broaden participation in economic growth. Reforms were introduced and focused on
liberalizing trade, reforming tax and tariff policies, phasing out import licensing, freeing up foreign
exchange allocations, liberalizing domestic markets, relaxing transport regulations, removing price
controls, improving public enterprise management, enacting civil service reforms, and implementing
programs to minimize the costs to the poor due to unemployment and social hardship. Resource allocation
became increasingly market-based and many legal barriers to enterprise development were removed.
However, the supply response to these reforms remained modest because of recurrent droughts, instability
in exchange rates and prices as some barriers were retained, and difficulties in sustaining fiscal discipline.
Interest rates were high and volatile as government borrowed heavily and mopped up long-term funds
depressing the demand for longer term financing (see section 3.5 below). The Zimbabwean private sector
remained concentrated and underdeveloped. Although industry contributed about 35 percent of output,
indigenous ownership and participation remained limited and production for exportS had not reached its
full potential.
In the Staff Appraisal Report, the Enterprise Development Project (EDP) designers identified four key
areas to improve the environment for private sector development. First, the macro-economic framework,
stable in previous years, though fragile, required further reduction in fiscal deficits so as not to crowd out
private investment through high interest rates. Second, reform measures were taken to improve the
incentive framework for emerging enterprises but more work was necessary to make infrastructure
sufficient and reliable for emerging exporters and to strengthen financial intermediation. Third, although
the financial system was relatively developed, credit market failures had to be addressed to improve
financial institutions' responsiveness to bankable financing opportunities. Fourth, Zimbabwean firms had
basic production and manpower skills necessary for effective production but lacked the market knowledge
or a coherent market strategy to position themselves and benefit from specialization in the local, regional,
or global economy. The first area was being addressed as part of a wider dialogue between the
International Development Association (IDA) and the Government under the Second Structural Adjustment
Credit and the second area was largely addressed by the Government and the International Monetary Fund
through the Economic Structural Adjustment Program. The latter two areas constraining enterprise
development triggered the development of the EDP.
The EDP was designed to reduce poverty by supporting a stronger supply response by private sector
enterprises to policy reforms already undertaken. Innovative approaches were designed to support two
separate objectives: (i) to increase the growth of export-based output; and (ii) to broaden the participation
of indigenous firms in economic activities. Overall implementation direction and support for the project
were provided by a Steering Team (comprising the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce and of Finance, the Head of Planning at the National Economic Planning Commission, the
Governor of the Reserve Bank, chief executives of the Zimbabwe Investment Center, ZimTrade,
Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries, Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce, the Bankers
Association, and representatives of the indigenous business community) and an Administrative Secretariat
at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Where available, existing institutions were tapped to implement
project components: the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for the export and small and medium enterprise
financing facilities and the ZimTrade, a trade promotion organization assisting exporters, for the matching
grant scheme.  Management contractors and technical advisers, mostly funded by the Department for
International Development (DFID, UK), were appropriately planned and put in place during project
implementation for the business services component.
The project objectives reflected priorities for private sector development in Zimbabwe at that time, as
identified in the strategies of both the Government and the Bank. They were consistent with the
Government's strategy and the underlying themes of its program for economic and social transformation:
- 2 -



(i) accelerated growth in non-drought years; (ii) Government as a facilitator of private initiativeS; (iii) an
outward orientation for the economy to realize growth in trade and investments; and (iv) indigenisation In
enterprise development. They also reflected the priorities identified in the Bank's country assistance
strategy, which called for promoting private sector investment and exports as the engine for employment
generation and economic growth. The objectives were focused, supported building on reforms, and allowed
flexibility in response to changing constraints and opportunities. However, they were optimistic in terms of
the assumptions made on the business climate and reforms on the business incentive framework,
Government commitment to reforms (for example, revising taxes on inputs for export processing zones
(EPZs), maintaining positive lending rates), and existing institutional capacities.
The EDP was prepared after significant first generation policy reforms in the country were undertaken and
were expected to continue with support under ongoing and planned structural adjustment projects. A
separate privatization project was also being envisaged. Implementation of the EDP was targeted at second
generation reforms to stimulate investments in, and exports of an emerging small and medium enterprise
(SME) sector. However, during the implementation period, Zimbabwe was hit by a number of shocks
leading to macroeconomic instability in the country and affected the demand for the project-financed
services and the project impact objectives. The privatization project was also delayed. In addition, the
Government eventually defaulted on payments of its outstanding obligations to the World Bank. The Bank
suspended the Government's right to make withdrawals under all of its credits to the country, effective May
16, 2000, about half way through the EDP implementation
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of this project were not revised.
3 3 Original Components
A. Business Services Component - US$ 7 million. (i) Sub-sector Business Associations Initiative (SBAI)
Sub-Component that financed matching grants to business associations to strengthen the array of services
for firms and increase the creation of company alliances; (ii) Improving International Competitiveness
Sub-Component that supported the existing ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme to enable individual
enterpnses to enter or expand into export markets; and (iii) Matchmaking Facility that financed the initial
costs of creating linkages between established and emerging export-oriented enterprises and local and
foreign partners.
B. Finance Component - U$60 million. (i) The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Finance Facility
supported permanent working capital and investment requirements of SMEs, and export financing for
direct or indirect -exporters. Features of the facility, passed on to SMEs by participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs), included that: (a) loans were denominated in the local currency; (b) maturity was up
to five years with grace periods up to 18 months; (c) at least 20 percent of the subproject cost was met by
the sub-borrower; and (d) interest rate charged by the Apex to PFIs was the quarterly rolling average cost
of funds of commercial banks and the rate charged to SMEs was freely determined by PFIs. (ii) The Export
Finance Facility provided pre- and post-shipment export financing for emerging exporters unable to access
foreign currency. Features of this facility included that: (a) eligible borrowers were limited to those with a
maximum of 100 employees and total assets up to US$500,000 (exclusive of land); (b) maximum
sub-loans size limit was US$150,000; (c) maturity period was from the time of drawdown to the time of the
sight export letters of credit negotiation (or post-shipment export bill discount), but not more than six
months (pre-shipment) or 120 days (post-shipment); (d) the borrowers would be required to present a
- 3 -



confirmed export letter of credit from a quality bank, export credit insurance, or, in the case of indirect
exporters, a domestic back-to-back letter of credit; (e) post-shipment financing was provided by rolling
over the pre-shipment maturity into the post-shipment phase; (f) PFIs onlent funds in the same currency
and with the same maturity as received from the Apex; (g) at least 20 percent of the subproject cost had to
be met by the sub-borrowers; and (h) interest rate was charged by the Apex to financial intermediaries at
the quarterly rolling average cost of US dollar funding of commercial and merchant banks from overseas
sources; and the rate charged exporters by PFIs was freely determined by PFIs.
Provisions for a SME Credit Guarantee Facility and Pre-Shipment Export Finance Guarantee Fund were
planned in the project to be made through premiums collected by the Apex Unit from PFIs and deposited in
interest-bearing accounts, interest earned on these deposits, funds raised from the disposal of collateral on
guaranteed loans, and sub-loan repayments. These funds were established primarily to encourage financial
institutions to lend to entrepreneurs with viable projects and good prospects of success, but whose
perceived risk was greater than the actual risk because of insufficient collateral or credit history to prove
creditworthiness. Under the SME Credit Guarantee Facility, eligible sub-loans could be guaranteed for 50
percent of the outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest up to 90 days, provided a PFI's losses for
guaranteed loans did not exceed 15 percent of its guaranteed sub-loan total. Lower cover was available if
the PFI exceeded this threshold but only up to a loss rate of 40 percent. The Pre-Shipment Export Finance
Guarantee Fund had similar features except that sub-loans could be guaranteed for 80 percent of the
outstanding principal amount. The Credit Guarantee Agency in the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ)
administered both guarantee facilities.
C. Institutional Development Component (US$1.4 million) to strengthen institutions that were key to
improving enterprise development and export competitiveness. This included: (i) a matching grant for
financial intermediaries to build their small business appraisal and monitoring systems and capacity; (ii)
support to the Small Enterprise Development Corporation to sharpen its financial administration and
strategic focus; (iii) support to RBZ to improve financial institution regulation; (iv) administrative support
for the RBZ to implement its Apex Unit and credit guarantee functions pertaining to this Project and
improve financial institution regulation and supervision; (v) support of the Customs and Excise Department
for its automation and administration of duty-drawback and inward processing rebate provisions; (vi)
support to the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) Authority in the development of implementing guidelines for
the EPZ provisions; (vii) support to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to administer its economic
policy; and (viii) support for the operations of the Administrative Secretariat (in addition to financing
available from the Government and co-financiers).
3 4 Revised Components:
As project implementation was increasingly affected by the difficult macroeconomic environment and the
reluctance of the private sector to invest and take on new debt, demand for support under some project
components (see section 4 below) declined. Following the mid-term project implementation review
conducted in May 1999, project restructuring plans were finalized and approved by the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors in July 2000. Without adjusting the objectives of the project (although the emphasis
shifted from finance towards capacity building in support of policy reforms), amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement were made and resources totaling $18.7 million (in addition to an earlier
transfer of about US$5 million) were reallocated from the Export Finance Sub-component to the
Institutional Development Components. Adjustments were made to enhance economic stability, improve
the business environment, and strengthen the implementation capacity of participating agencies. The
following activities were to be funded: (i) improvements in tax administration and establishment of the
National Revenue Authority to reduce tax-induced distortions and improve the business environment; (ii)
-4 -



improvement of government debt and cash management; (iii) capacity building to address statistical
constraints hindering effective economic management and monitoring; (iv) financial sector reform; (v)
privatization and private participation in infrastructure initiatives; and (vi) other private sector reform
initiatives including deregulation and alleviation of red tape, tourism development, support to the
Competition Commission and the Attorney General's Office, and general efforts aimed at improving the
public-private sector interface and related public service delivery. Approval for these revisions was sought
and obtained from the Board of Executive Directors while the Bank's suspension of disbursements under
all projects for Zimbabwe was in effect as the country continued to default in its debt service obligations to
the Bank. Expectations were that circumstances leading to the suspension would be reversed within months
and that project implementation would benefit from continued close monitoring by the Bank. However,
financing under the EDP remained unavailable for these activities as the suspension of disbursements had
not been lifted by the Bank until project closure.
3 5 Quality at Entry:
The project quality at entry was satisfactory. The positive quality aspects of the project components were
that they were: (i) consistent with the sector strategies as defined by the country and the Bank; (ii)
innovative in their approach to meeting the development goals; and (iii) built on earlier lessons, particularly
the reliance on sound, effective, and market-oriented financial institutions The project nsks stemming
from macro-economic instability, lack of Government support for institution-building measures,
availability of alternative below market funding that would undermine the Finance Component, anti-export
biases inherent in the tariff and tax structure, and project administration difficulties, were accurately
identified. Appropriate mitigating measures were built into the project: designing the project in modular
form that included parameters for evolution during implementation and the redesign or elimination of
sub-components without affecting other components; self-regulating features that limit commitment of
resources when the interest rate structure became unsustainable and repayment rates were low; broad
consultations with stakeholders; expressed Government commitments to the project objectives and design
as provided in their Industrial Policy Statement; and inclusion of appropriate technical assistance in the
project components. Measures to correct the conservative lending policies (which translated in high interest
rates) by PFIs toward emerging enterprises for local and export markets included: (i) increasing PFIs'
experience in lending based on enterprises' actual risks as measured by their cash flows rather than higher
levels of perceived risks also requiring high collateral coverage; (ii) increasing PFIs' appraisal capability
and information networks through their participation in the financing and guarantee mechanisms set up to
support the target enterprises; and (iii) improvements in prudential regulations to permit an orderly entrance
of more competition and an improved macro program so as to further reduce interest rates on a sustainable
basis. The preparation team, however, did not predict that the Administrative Secretariat, initially staffed
with civil servants, would be insufficiently equipped to fulfill its role as a project implementation agency.
The project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group and did not incorporate a project logframe,
which became a Bank requirement post 1996.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective
It will be noted from the summary on component outputs below that interesting results supporting increased
private sector participation in economic activities, were achieved during the first half of project
implementation. However, the potential for significant growth of export-based output and broadened
participation in economic activity by indigenous firms was limited primarily by the difficult economic
conditions prevailing in the country causing firms to hesitate to make additional investments in their firms.
- 5 -



Following important adjustments to the project components and implementation procedures at mid-term,
project execution during the remaining project life could have supported the achievement of the project's
development objectives had macroeconomic conditions not deteriorated substantially, the country continued
servicing its debt obligations to the Bank, and the Bank not suspended disbursements for all projects to the
country in May 2000. Thus, overall, the project failed to achieve its major objectives; its outcome rating
is unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Business Services Component. (i) Under the SBAI, business plans were completed for four eligible
small business associations and requests for five other proposals were approved. A field visit to a
horticulture association revealed that they benefited from a sector study designed to understand the
constraints and policy changes required in their industry. As their constraints were addressed, the
association sought to define additional support under this component. An impact assessment of the support
to beneficiary associations had not been conducted while the project was being implemented. During the
mid-term review mission, recommendations were made and accepted by the implementing agency to remove
the constraints to implementation, including revising downward the cost-sharing formula and modifying
institutional set-up arrangements.
(ii) Under the ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme, 13 grants were approved and about US$1 million had
been committed to exporters, SMEs and associations. Approximately 15 percent of the total commitments
was disbursed. Support for travel and trade fairs accounted for 60 percent of the total allocation, as
exporters normally seek to better assess the export market and later request technical assistance to improve
their international competitiveness. While the impact on the firms assisted had not yet been determined, a
visit to two beneficiaries by a supervision mission confirmed that there had been an impressive impact on
the firms' quality of products and skills. ZimTrade also went through an organizational restructuring to
turn it into a business sector membership organization that was flexible and service-oriented. The
restructuring resulted in staff cost cuts, the hiring of an assistant chief executive officer, and the
establishment of a matching grant scheme that would fund similar objectives and activities once this project
component closed. The speed at which funds under this component were utilized does not differ
significantly from similar schemes elsewhere because it generally takes time to establish such schemes and
targeted firms tend to access the services at later stages of their own project development or after the
scheme has existed for a while. Other contributing factors to the low uptake on this sub-component were
the:  (i) difficult macro-economic conditions which created uncertainties and discouraged private
investment; (ii) unavailability of funds in the special account because of the Administrative Secretariat's
lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, the absence of a dedicated special account, and foreign exchange
regulations forbidding organizations and firms from having foreign-denominated accounts in commercial
banks; (iii) limited promotion and low outreach levels because of competing demands by other
ZimTrade-managed programs; and (iv) some processing procedures which discouraged prospective clients.
Some start-up delays were also experienced in obtaining the management contractor resulting from the
lengthy budgetary and procurement processes of DFID. Revisions to improve the performance of this
sub-component were introduced at mid-term and focused on flexible financial support, simplified
procedures, increased client focus, stepped-up and targeted marketing efforts, on-the-job training, and
establishment of a computerized monitoring system.
(iii) The Match Making Facility was cancelled when it remained undeveloped and unutilized.
Based on limited progress in meeting the capacity building needs of private enterprises, achievement under
this component is rated unsatisfactory.
-6 -



B.     Finance Component.- (i) Under the SME Finance Facility, by end-May 2000 approximately Z$659
million was disbursed for 1,079 subprojects by the RBZ. The number of assisted SMEs compared
favorably to the appraisal projection of 500 SMEs to be assisted, reflecting one of the few cases in Africa
where a line of credit effectively reached the SME target group (average loan size was about US$25,000).
This number was not higher because implementation of the component was suspended late 1998 for about a
year. As confidence in the economy deteriorated and also as a consequence of the Asian crisis, the
exchange rate rapidly depreciated and inflation rapidly increased from a 20-30 percent range to 30-50
percent. This led to retail and wholesale interest rates associated with the finance facility to become
significantly negative in real terms threatening the sustainability of financial sector objectives.  An
operational audit of the component conducted in March 1999 documented the following aspects of
implementation. About 82 percent of the outstanding loans had an average loan value of approximately
US$27,000. A survey of only 42 companies attributed 490 new jobs created to the SME facility; thus,
overall the number of new jobs created could be projected to be quite large once the remaining
sub-borrowers are considered Tumover information supplied by the surveyed enterprises indicated that
generally subprojects performed as expected or better.  Negotiated interest rates from  PFIs to
sub-borrowers did not exceed 10 percentage points above the RBZ rate to PFIs (which increased from 9.84
percent to 16.73 percent); these rates were lower than the prime rate prevailing at that time. Also, based
on information on 87 percent of the number of sub-loans disbursed and outstanding at March 26, 1999,
about 40 percent of the number of loans were in arrears (amounting to about ZW$23 million), with 18
percent of the total number of loans in arrears by more than 3 months. The consultants conducting the
operational audit estimated that the amount in arrears was about 19 percent of total disbursements by
March 1999 (data excludes information on two PFIs, one that did not comply with the conditions of the
facility and another that was liquidated). Under the adverse macro-economic conditions and consistent with
projected increases in arrears for the banking sector as a whole, the value of arrears for project-financed
sub-loans was expected to increase as additional repayments (including for projects still within their grace
periods) became due. At and following the mid-term review process, the key recommendations made by the
Bank to tmprove the outcome of this component included the need to: (i) utilize all reflows (interest and
principal payments) to capitalize the guarantee fund in order- to sufficiently cover sub-loans that were
guaranteed; (ii) annually re-certify the financial health of all PFIs and review their portfolio limits by RBZ;
and (iii) establish a consolidated report on the aging of all sub-loans funded by the facility. Additionally,
the consultants that conducted the operational audit suggested: (i) RBZ recover outstanding funds from
PFIs that were suspended from participating in the facility, did not have accounts with RBZ (so automatic
debits from those PFIs' accounts wasn't possible), or reneged on its commitment (one PFI) and make full
provisions against loans granted to these PFIs; (ii) RBZ utilize the 90-day treasury bill rate, reviewed
quarterly, as the reference interest rate to PFIs; and (iii) training in loan application assessment, credit
check procedures and loan supervision be provided to PFIs with high defaulting borrowers. Of the 15 PFIs
that signed participation agreements, five were suspended from participating in the facility because of high
default rates and non-compliance with the prudential requirements of the facility; one ceased operations;
and one withdrew because it found the reference interest rate too expensive. During implementation, the
dialogue between the Apex Unit, PFIs, and Bank supervision missions remained proactively focused on the
mitigating measures built in the project design so PFIs would not be undernined by their participation in
the facility and the financial objectives of this component, i.e. financial intermediation through a sound,
efficient, and market oriented banking system, would be maintained.
(ii) Under the Export Finance Facility, as of March 2000 about US$1.5 million had been disbursed for 28
sub-projects. The impact of the assistance under this component had not been assessed during project
execution. To increase the component's responsiveness to market needs, at mid-term review, it was agreed
between the RBZ and IDA to broaden the eligibility requirements and allow firms with up to 500
- 7 -



employees to access the component resources.
On the credit guarantee facilities, while expectations were that these facilities would be called upon given
the repayment problems, the extent of the utilization of these facilities had not yet been reported.
Overall, financial sector objectives were unsatisfactorily achieved.
C.     Institutional Development Component. Inportant achievements facilitating enterprise
development and export competitiveness were realized under this component. (i) The Customs and Excise
Department was completing its automation and improvement plans for the administration of duty-drawback
and inward processing rebate provisions; project support led to the Department's computer systems
becoming Y2K compliant and for the many customs offices in the country to share computerized customs
information; departmental staff also completed their training in the Global Trade Analysis Program. (ii)
The role of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in economic policy formulation has been strengthened
and the consultative process between the public and private sector for economic reforms enhanced through
the National Economic Consultative Forum. (iii) Utilizing innovative distance learning approaches, the
Small Enterprise Development Corporation received consultant support for the preparation of its corporate
plan and the upgrading of its computer systems. (iv) Improvements were registered in the EPZ business
environment with the adoption of EPZ labor laws, preparation of financial regulations for EPZs, and the
launching of a study on the feasibility of extending EPZ status to existing exports. However, EPZs still
face the disincentive of being taxed on inputs while their domestic sales remain relatively uncontrolled and
untaxed thereby distorting domestic competition. (v) Following the completion of a tariff study, tariff
reforms were introduced by the Tariff Commission. (vi) RBZ upgraded its regulation and supervision
functions and the Apex Unit strengthened its credit guarantee functions and its role in the project. The
Matching Grant for Financial Intermediaries component remained unutilized. At the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) stage, the impact of most of the assistance extended under this component still
had to be confirmed.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A NPV/ERR has not been calculated based on the fact that a meaningful comparison between the projected
NPV/ERR would not be possible given the very low outreach levels under the Business Services and
Export Finance Facility during the first half of project implementation and that project implementation was
discontinued for the second half when disbursements for all IDA-funded projects was suspended and
remained so at ICR preparation stage. Under the present declining macro economic conditions, it is
assumed many enterprises would be facing greater operational and economic difficulties today than when
they first received assistance under the project.
4 4 Financial rate of r eturn:
Under the SME Finance Facility, an operational audit confirmed that the effect of inflation and the
devaluation of the Zimbabwe dollar contributed to the declining value of the revolving funds from loan
repayments. A continued trend will mean that the Government will have to source funds other than from
the revolving fund to service its EDP-related debt. A further calculation of the FRR was not done for
similar reasons stated in section 4.3 above.
4 5 Institutional development impact-
The project's institutional development impact was modest. As discussed in 4.2 (C) above, important
- 8 -



capacity building achievements were realized by several government agencies contributing to the
improvement in the business environment for pnvate enterprises and exporters. Also, a large number of
jobs were created as many pnvate enterprises met or exceeded their sub-project objectives. However, in
times of macro-economic instability, many enterprises increasingly faced greater operational and economic
difficulties leading to non-repayment of their debts with the PFIs. Also, capacity building benefits to the
private sector were limited by their low participation levels in the business services and export finance
components. In addition, the inability of some PFIs to bring up their recovery rates and the availability of
the loanable funds at interest rates that insufficiently covered inflation, currency devaluation, and
operational risks has resulted in the depletion of term funding for the next generation of small and medium
scale entrepreneurs and further hindered the development of the financial intermediation function of banks
that could have utilized project reflows.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernnment or Implementing agency
Just as implementation of the project commenced, Zimbabwe's economy was hit by a number of shocks
leading to the end of an economic boom. External factors which led to this included the slow supply
response despite improvements in resource mobilization. The Asian crisis in 1998 and falling world prices
contributed to more than anticipated declines in exports from Zimbabwe. The depreciation of the South
African Rand in 1998 made imports from South Africa cheaper and put pressure on Zimbabwe's foreign
reserves. These factors, along with those within the control of government (see section below), eventually
led to a severe economic crisis making servicing of foreign debt increasingly difficult for Zimbabwe. As
Zimbabwe defaulted on its payments to the Bank and the Bank suspended disbursements to the country in
May 2000, the implementation of the project essentially stalled since then.
The macro-economic difficulties adversely affected the ability of some banks to find and support viable
projects. Firms were also increasingly reluctant to take on new investment and debt when the industrial
environment was volatile and the business environment did not facilitate the development of private SMEs
and exporters.
5 2 Factors generally subject to government control
During the project implementation period, Zimbabwe went through a severe crisis, the worst in its history
since its independence in 1980. The levels of poverty and unemployment rose and the economy remained
depressed. By 1998, the foreign exchange rate depreciated by 50 percent and by end-2000, inflation was
over 50 percent, real GDP was shrinking, the fiscal deficit was more than 20 percent of GDP, and about 70
percent of the Zimbabweans were poor and surviving on less than US$2 a day. An acute shortage of
foreign exchange and critical imports created serious supply bottlenecks. The intemal factors that brought
Zimbabwe in the throes of a broad and unprecedented financial and social crisis included: (i) the
expectations of an increased fiscal deficit due to unforeseen payments of large lump sum payments and
pensions to war veterans; (ii) social unrest as a result of price increases of key commodities; (iii) military
involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the latter part of 1998; and (iv) uncertainty
surrounding the modalities of land reform.  As macro-economic stability remained elusive, foreign
exchange and input availability was negatively affected, aggregate demand in the economy was reduced,
and uncertainty regarding property rights for agribusiness prevailed. Under these conditions, the private
sector could not sustain, let alone broaden, its support for a stronger supply response, increase participation
by indigenous firms in economic activities, or increase export-based output.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
-9-



Ownership and commitment to the project's goals was displayed by the Steering Committee members.
While the Administrative Secretariat carried out its functions, the quality of its support was hampered by
its being under-staffed, insufficiently trained and prepared to carry out its role in project implementation,
lack of familiarity with procurement guidelines, and its bureaucratic procedures. Also, difficulties in
meeting development objectives in the financial sector were evident by the long-drawn process at reaching
agreement between the Bank and the Apex Unit on an appropriate reference interest rate that took into
account price increases, prevented the depreciation of the revolving fund, and did not increase moral hazard
risks ranging from incentives for banks to use the facility as a subsidized float to arbitrary credit allocation
decisions. Increasing advocacy and public campaign on the business services component would have
increased outreach toward intended beneficiaries. Some audits were submitted late.
Some limitations in the project design and implementation procedures also led to difficulties in realizing
project objectives. These included: (i) the absence of a separate special account to facilitate disbursements
under the matching grant schemes (reflecting lessons learned from other similar schemes); and (ii)
application requirements which discouraged some prospective applicants from utilizing the matching
grants. While implementation review teams corrected these problems, the remaining project execution
period was terminated; the effects of the recommended and accepted procedural modifications on project
impact was not determined.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Reallocation of resources from the Finance and Business Services components (approximately US$21
million) to the Institutional Development Component were being finalized when disbursements from the
project were suspended. These reallocations were necessary to respond primarily to the lack of demand
from the private sector for financial assistance for exports and for business support services, to account for
lower disbursements because of the temporary suspension of the SME Financing component, and to
address some of the macro-economic risks and emerging development opportunities. Of the SDR47.5
million original loan amount, approximately SDR22.6 (47.5 percent) was disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainiability rating:
The project achievements are unlikely to be sustained. While the Finance Component extended support to a
large number of SMEs, this was not the same case for exporters, who were being targeted to contribute in a
major way to meeting the development and economic growth needs of the country by diversifying the export
base, diversifying the country's economic structure, and reducing its vulnerability to external shocks.
Large sections of the Zimbabwean economy are still not integrated into the economy through extensive
trade ties and thus are unable to continuously update their technology to stay competitive; skill levels have
not been enhanced; key business associations have not shown significant decrease in reliance on external
support. In addition, the operational audit of the SME financing facility documented the fact many SMEs
are not servicing their debts with the PFIs. In addition, the facility was depleted in real terms and high
default rates, including those of four PFIs whose default rate had surpassed 25 percent, compounded
problems of sustainability. In utilizing project reflows, commnitment to maintaining discipline in the
financial sector has to be displayed by: (i) RBZ basing PFI's continued access to the credit line on an
annual re-certification of their funancial health and the definition of their portfolio limits; (ii) RBZ
suspending all PFIs with high default rates; (iii) RBZ imposing interest rates that are sufficiently higher
- 10-



than the default and devaluation rates and loan loss provisions; (iv) PFIs lending for viable SME and
export-oriented projects; and (v) additional capacity building assistance being available to PFIs and
sub-borrowers. In addition, Government commitment to macro economic stability, a key ingredient to
private sector-led growth, is yet to be demonstrated.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Of primary importance to the advancement of the financial and private sectors is Government's
commitment to a development strategy that focuses on policies that support a stable macro-economy and a
business environment favorable to the growth of an efficient supply response that is based on high levels of
private investment and exports.
The sustainability of the limited project achievements depends on PFIs judiciously implementing credit
management policies and procedures, monitoring the performance of PFIs and sub-borrowers to minimize
moral hazards in the credit facility, and making timely repayments to the Apex Unit. RBZ will have to
closely supervise and monitor PFI conformity based on prudential regulations to prevent high levels of
default and adverse effects on the financial system. These measures are required along with strengthening
the legal and regulatory framework for banking and developing basic accounting, monitoring and reporting
systems. Smaller and weaker PFIs would have to increase their capacity to effectively implement credit
management and risk assessment policies and procedures to sustainably intermediate financial resources.
The Government and its development partners also need to continue their dialogue and focus their
development strategy to the sustainable development of SMEs, micro and indigenous enterprises. SMEs
are important economic agents that create wealth, absorb excess labor, reduce poverty, foster local and
regional development, reduce economic inequalities, build new entrepreneurial culture, and develop a
middle class as a factor of social and political stability. Development programs will have to include
increasing the capacity of these enterprises to access funds for investment and working capital
requirements, assistance to upgrade technical know how, and linkages with foreign mvestors, business
partners, and external markets.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending.
Consistent with the CAS, the project designers correctly zeroed in on fostering economic growth through a
strengthened financial system and the participation by broader segments of the population to increase the
supply response and exports. Achievements would have been evident in the creation of income generating
and employment opportunities and the alleviation of poverty. In addressing critical issues and responding
to pressing needs, the project was prepared m close dialogue with stakeholders. As designed, various
lessons from earlier projects in Zimbabwe and similar operations elsewhere were incorporated, such that it:
(i) provided financing and business services to enterprises after most of the identified policy bamers had
been removed; (ii) interrnediated funds through multiple institutions certified as financially viable by
extemal auditors; and (iii) supported an integrated series of measures which encompass financing,
guarantees, business services and institution building.
7 2 Supervision.
The Bank's project and country teams (with specialized skills) provided relevant advice, considerable
degree of continuity in Bank management of the project, and follow up on recommendations and agreed
- 11 -



actions. Implementation support, provided from the Bank's headquarters and regional office and during at
least two field visits annually (until 2000), focused on the development impact of the project and the
fiduciary aspects of the project (including complementary operational, product, and audit support ). Within
very difficult macro-economic conditions in the country, a team of skilled staff and consultants continued to
face difficulties to provide the necessary catalyst to support the evolution toward a healthy, efficient, and
market oriented financial sector and an increasingly productive private sector. Throughout implementation,
proactive support was provided to resolve issues, support an effective public-private consultative process,
finance policy studies, reforms, capacity building initiatives, and an operational audit of the SME Finance
sub-component to provide stakeholders with an independent evaluation of its impact. After the mid-term
review, the project was restructured and resources re-allocated to incorporate measures to correct the slow
and problematic implementation of the project. Corrective actions introduced were designed to: monitor
and evaluate the demand for services and the output and outcome of such services; merge implementation
responsibilities where synergies and economies of scale existed between implementing agencies to achieve
efficiency gains; modify procedures, eligibility criteria, and cost of funds and services (cost sharing
formula) to simplify project implementation and increase its responsiveness to realities; introduce products,
services, focused sector and policy studies, and further broaden participation of micro enterprise, SMEs,
and multi-sector associations with strong SME and micro enterprise orientation.  These measures
notwithstanding, an over optimism on the part of the supervision teams prevailed in spite of the suspension
of the Finance Component for over a year because of differences with the Bank on the basis of the
wholesale interest rate, the suspension of some PFIs, and the protracted implementation of the Business
Services Component. An early cancellation of some project resources would have better reflected a more
realistic appreciation of the conditions of the macro economy, reluctance of the private sector to invest, and
obstacles in the business environment.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Overall, IDA's performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation
The Government's commitment to the development of the financial and private sectors in general and the
project in particular was demonstrated during the project development phase. Govemment counterparts
were available to provide required technical, financial, economic, and institutional support when the project
was being defined.  Key officials and staff who were expected to play an active role in project
implementation collaborated with the Bank's preparation team.  Conditions for negotiation, project
presentation to the Bank's Board of Directors, and credit effectiveness (relating to policy and institutional
reforms, implementing agency set up, eligibility requirements for and subsidiary agreements with
participating banks, and the project implementation plan and operational guidelines) were complied with.
7 5 Government implementation performance:
Government's wavering commitment to the project's objectives was evident during project implementation
when it was unable to provide a stable macro economic environment and to meet its debt service obligations
to the Bank leading to the curtailment of Bank financing for EDP activities. Although the Government
collaborated closely with the Bank's implementation review missions, project execution was affected by
insufficient staff supplement, weak procurement capacity, and bureaucratic disbursement and
replenishment procedures followed by the Ministry of Finance.
7 6 Implementing Agency:
- 12-



The implementing agencies displayed ownership and commitment toward the objectives of the project and
its components as evident in their contribution to project implementation. However, maximizing the
outreach opportunities presented by the project was sacrificed and frequently hampered by a number of
factors. These included the suspension of the finance component because of delays in resolving interest
rate issues by the Apex Unit; weaknesses in the financial management, procurement, and advocacy role
played by the Administrative Secretariat; and, generally, inadequate communication of the project and its
features to potential beneficiaries. While financial and audit reports were provided, these were delayed,
sometimes qualified, and did not contain sufficient information to properly monitor the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory.  Under the unstable macroeconomic
conditions, the business environment deteriorated and the investment risks perceived by the private sector
increased prompting them to limit their participation in the project. In addition, the Government's capacity
to service its debt obligations with the Bank was negatively affected and led to the Bank suspending
disbursements under all ongoing IDA-funded projects in the country. These changes and delays in
resolving implementation issues minimized the ability of the Government to meet its development objectives
of increasing the growth of export-based output and broadening the participation of indigenous firms in
economic activities.
8. Lessons Learned
. Initiatives with objectives targeted at building capacity in the financial and private sectors have a better
chance of success if these are conditioned upon sustained government support toward macro-economic
stability and development of the business climate, incentive framework, and reliable infrastructure.
* The success of financial intermediary loans is dependent upon a disciplined credit environment.
Expenences in the EDP implementation illustrate that it is essential that participating banks:  (i)
appropriately comply with banking sector prudential guidelines and maintain high repayment rates; and (ii)
are sufficiently trained in credit and risk management, governance, and financial management policies so
they are strengthened rather than undermined by participating in similar finance facilities.
* Business development services are more effective if implementation arrangements are simplified, do not
tax an organization's capacity, and do not deter the participation of eligible applicants; they are managed
by competent private managers; and they are strongly supported by the government and a public-private
oversight committee. Generally, because it takes considerable time to build cost-sharing business support
schemes and targeted firms tend to start using these schemes at later stages, project preparation and
implementation timetables should take into account a longer development horizon and modest expectations
of positive impact specially at earlier stages of development. Other lessons, particularly those experienced
in this project and also documented by the Regional Program on Enterprise Development, include:
eligibility for grants should have explicit criteria to ensure that grants are extended to those activities that
have potential to generate high level of positive externalities and are used to fund activities in addition to
those that private entrepreneurs will fund with their own resources.  Matching grant performnance
indicators should measure these activities.
* The distribution of simple and straightforward guidelines and instructions to banks, matching grant
implementers, and potential clients and the intensive delivery of promotional activities can improve project
- 13 -



outreach and perforrnance if these are done during the project launch and the early years of project
implementation.
o The opportunity to realize private sector and financial sector development goals are enhanced when the
Government and the Bank are flexible and revert to strengthening first generation reforms as these weaken
with the decline of macro-economic conditions and the economic and business environment is not conducive
for the implementation of second generation reforms.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplementing agency:
No comments received from Borrower and implementing agency.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments received from co-financier.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
10. Additional Information
-14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
-  - Indicator/Matrix        |        ProJected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in output of emerging exporters  In accordance with PIP projections  Not available
Increase in employment by SMEs, emerging  In accordance with PIP projections  Not available
exporters
Strengthened capacity in financial   In accordance with PIP projections     Not available
intermedianes; higher lending by Small
Business Unit
Strengthened SEDCO (reduced          In accordance with PIP projections     Not available
administratve costs per loan, reduced
arrears, SMEs graduating to commercial
financing)
Strengthened RBZ - prudential requirements In accordance with PIP projections  Not available
issued, compliance monitored
Customs and Excise Department - increased In accordance with PIP projections  Not available
efficiency following automation and
administration of Inward Processing Zone
and Duty Drawback Systems; establishment
and modemizabon of Input-Output
Coefficients; establishment of Common
Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme,
Strengthened Ministry of Industry and
Commerce
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/MatrIx.      -          -ProJected Inlast PSR  -.    -        .Actuali/Latest Estimate   -
Appointment of SBAI administrator,    Mid-1996                              November 1997
establishment of operating guidelines and
procedures
Establishment of ZMGS management team, Mid-1996                             November 1997
guidelines and operabonal procedures
Appointment of Matchmaking Management  Mid-1996                             Component cancelled
Contractor, issuance of guidelines,
operations
Matching grants for emerging exporters  In accordance with PIP projections  13 grants
Matching grants for business associabons  In accordance with PIP projections  4 grants
Matches established under the Matchmaking In accordance with PIP projections  Cancelled
Facility
Apex Unit and credit guarantee functions  Mid-1996                          Apnl 1997
established, guidelines issued for export and
SME facilities, operations guidelines and
procedures established
Sub-loans committed for emerging exporters In accordance with PIP projections  28 sub-loans
Sub-loans committed for SMEs          In accordance with PIP projections    1,079 sub-loans
End of project
- 15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
,  < >,      * ,                            Estimate,     Estimate      Appraisal
' ., ~ -- > :. j. 'Component                 US$ million   US$ million  _
Finance Component                                  88.20          33.00            37
Business Services Component                        14.30           1.00             7
Institutional Development                           2.20           4.20            191
Contingency                                         1.30
Total Baseline Cost                               106.00          38.20
Total Project Costs            106.00         38.20
Total Financing Required            106.00         38.20
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method       *
- ., ExpendituCr                                        2 ;t, ~ *  ~ ICB  -ON.B.F.'  otal ost
- eCategory-~  -  ICB  NCB       Other
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.10         0.10         0.00         0.20
(0.00)       (0.10)        (0.10)       (0.00)      (0.20)
3 .Services                  0.00         0.00         8.80         6.90         15.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (8.80)        (0.00)      (8.80)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         60.00        18.10        78.10
Credit Facilities       (0.00)        (0.00)      (60.00)      (0.00)       (60.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         10.00        10.00
Guarantee Facilities        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          1.00         1.00        2.00
Training                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)
Total                     0.00          0.10        69.90        36.00        106.00
(0.00)       (0.10)       (69.90)      (0.00)       (70.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
> *t,>.^-,.*J; .41-<> >-+.X<\w\ a*- "rocu em nt Method .^<  -gt<'
ExpenditureC Ctegor:T     IC crcJe!n Meho                                    a
i, g- ,                     ', CB- B                  N.BF.' NCB  Other  .T  tal Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
Credit Facilities       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
- 16 -



5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
Guarantee Facilities              (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
Training                         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
DIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (n) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.          .   .       .     - .     . .   - - .   -   .        . ~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal1
Component               -Appraisal Estimate   -        IActua[/Latesl Estirnate --      -       . p- i
Bank --    Go%t.     CoF.       sank       Go,t. -    CoF.     Bank   Go(o. 'oCoF.
Finance                   60.00       5 00      16 00      26.40                          44 0    0.0    0.0
Business Services          6.40       5.00      7.70       0.40                           6.3     0.0    0.0
Institutional Development  3.60       0.50      1.80       3.80                          105.6    0 0    0.0
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
-18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/95                         6   Task Leader, Economists, SME
Specialists, PSD Specialists,
Trade Specialist
6/95                        10   Task Leader, Economists, SME
Specialists, PSD Specialists,
Trade Specialist, Finance
Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/95                       6    Task Leader, Economists,
SME Specialists, PSD
Specialists, Lawyer,
Supervision
12/24/1996                   1   Task Leader                        S             S
03/10/1997                   1   Task Leader                        S             S
06/25/1997                   2   Task Leader, Dep. Resident         S             S
Rep/Economist
10/14/1997                   2   Task Leader, Dep. Resident Rep.    S             S
03/18/1998                   4   Task Leader, Economist, PSD        S             S
Specialists (2)
06/09/1998                   2   Task Leader, SME Specialist        S             S
12/15/1998                   2   Task Leader, PSD Specialist        U             U
06/30/1999                   5   Task Leader, Capacity Building     U             S
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist,
Economist
12/22/1999                   3   Task Leader, Operations Officer,   S             S
Financial Management Specialist
06/22/2000                   4   Task Leader, Financial Analyst,    S             S
Financial Management
Specialist, SME Specialist
12/27/2000                   1   Task Manager                       U             U
ICR
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
|__ _ _ _   No. Staff weeks         US$ ('000)
19-



Identification/Preparation                                    26,100
Appraisal/Negotiation                                        456,400
Supervision                                                  285,600
ICR
Total                                                        768,100
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro polhcies                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                       0 H   OSUOM      *N    O NA
Fi Physical                              O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Lb Financial                             O H   OSUOM       * N  O NA
El Institutional Development             0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
Li Environmental                         O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
Li Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
Li Gender                          O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
L Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
Li Private sector development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
rII Other (Please specify)               O H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                Rating
E Lending                                           OHS OS       OtU    OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS       O&U    OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
E Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
E Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U    O HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U    O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Country Assistance Strategy, May 1, 1997, Report No. 16541-ZIM
2.    Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement: Zimbabwe Enterprise
Development Project (Credit 2851-ZIM)
3.    Miscellaneous project documents
4.    Ministry of Industry and Commerce: Enterprise Development Project - Operational Audit
of the Finance Component, March 2, 2000
Project Staff Appraisal Report: Zimbabwe Enterprise Development Project, Report No.
1 5062-ZIM
- 23 -















Repori Eko.:      25661
Type:    ICR



