Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2851 ZIM
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 30, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2851 ZIM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe 
(RBZ) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to the RBZ part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower obtained a grant from the United States of America, acting 
through the Agency for International Development (AID), in an approximate principal 
amount equivalent to one million two hundred fifteen thousand dollars ($1,215,000.00) 
(the AID Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the AID Grant Agreement) dated June 30, 1995 between the 
Borrower and AID;
(D)
the Borrower obtained a grant from the Norwegian Agency for International 
Development (NORAD) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to six hundred 
thousand dollars ($ 600,000.00) (the NORAD Grant) to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NORAD Grant 
Agreement), dated September 21, 1994 between the Borrower and NORAD;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the RBZ;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Administrative Secretariat" means the Administrative Secretariat 
referred to in Part A.2 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b)
"Apex Unit" means the Apex Unit to be established by RBZ pursuant to 
Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement; 
(c)
"Banking Act" means the Borrower’s Banking Act (Cap. 188), as amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
(d)
"CGA" means the Credit Guarantee Agency to be established by RBZ pursuant 
to Section 2.01 (e) of the Project Agreement; 
(e)
"EPZ Authority" means the Export Processing Zone Authority referred to in 
Part C.6 of the Project which is to be established in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Export Finance Guarantee Fund" means the export finance guarantee fund 
to be established under Part B.3 (ii) of the Project;
(g)
"exporter" means an enterprise with fixed assets (excluding land) not 
exceeding $500,000 equivalent which: (i) employs not more than 100 people, and (ii) is 
engaged in production for direct or indirect export; said specified amount and number 
being subject to change by the Steering Team in consultation with the Association;
(h)
"Matching Grant Agreement" means an agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be entered into between: (i) the Steering Team and an SBAI association 
pursuant to Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the ZimTrade Management Team and a private 
firm pursuant to Part A.2 of the Project; (iii) the Manager of the MM Facility and a 
private firm pursuant to Part A.3 of the Project; and (iv) the Administrative 
Secretariat and a PFI under Part C.1 of the Project; 
(i)
"Matching Grant" means a matching grant to be provided under Parts A and  
C.1 of the Project; 
(j)
"MM Facility" means the matchmaking initiative facility included in Part 
A.3 of the Project; 
(k)
"MOIC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Commerce; 
(l)
"Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
RBZ and a PFI pursuant to Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement; 
(m)
"PFI Matching Grant" means a matching grant to be administered under Part 
C.1 of the Project; 
(n)
"PFI" means a financial intermediary which has satisfied the Project 
eligibility criteria and has been certified by the Technical Committee and approved by 
the Steering Team in accordance with Part A.2 (a) (vi) and 2 (c) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(o)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and RBZ, 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(p)
"Project eligibility criteria" means the eligibility criteria for the 
Page  3
Project set out in Part G of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(q)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the project implementation plan 
referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of, and Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to, this Agreement; 
(r)
"RBZ" means the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe established and operating under 
the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act; 
(s)
"Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act" means the Borrower's Reserve Bank of 
Zimbabwe Act (Cap. 173), as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(t)
"SBAI Administrator" means the administrator referred to in Part A.1 of 
the Project; 
(u)
"SBAI association" means an association approved by the Steering Team to 
participate in Part A.1 of the Project; 
(v)
"SBAI Matching Grant" means a matching grant to be administered under 
Part A.1 of the Project;
(w)
"SBAI" means the Subsector Business Associations’ Initiative referred to 
in Part A.1 of the Project; 
(x)
"SEDCO" means the Small Enterprises Development Corporation established 
and operating under the Small Enterprises Development Corporation Act, 1983, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(y)
"SME Finance Fund" means the SME finance fund to be established by RBZ 
under Part B.1 of the Project; 
(z)
"SME Credit Guarantee Fund" means the credit guarantee fund to be 
established by RBZ under Part B.3 (i) of the Project; 
(aa)
"SME" means a small- and medium-scale enterprise with fixed assets 
(excluding land) not exceeding $200,000 equivalent which employs not more than 50 
people, said specified amount and number being subject to change by the Steering Team 
in consultation with the Association; 
(ab)
"Special Account" means an account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(ac)
"Steering Team" means the Steering Team referred to in Part A.2 (a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(ad)
"Subloan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by a PFI to 
an SME or exporter for a Subproject out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit relent to the PFI under the Participation Agreement;
(ae)
"Subproject" means a specific development project to be carried out by an 
SME or exporter utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan; 
(af)
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and RBZ pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
(ag)
"Technical Committee" means the technical committee of the Steering Team 
referred to in Part A.2 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ah)
"Zimbabwe Dollar" or the sign "Zim$" means the currency of the Borrower; 
"ZimTrade" means the trade promotion organization established in 1991 and referred to 
in Part A.2 of the Project; 
(ai)
"ZMGS Management Team" means the management team referred to in Part A.3 
(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(aj)
"ZMGS Matching Grant" means a matching grant to be administered under 
Page  4
Part A.2 of the Project; and 
(ak)
"ZMGS" means the ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme referred to in Part A.2 
of the Project.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty seven million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 47,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower or RBZ on account of withdrawals made by an SME or an exporter under a 
Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Subproject 
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. The first of the Special Accounts (First Special Account) shall 
be used exclusively for Part B of the Project, and the second Special Account (Second 
Special Account) shall be used exclusively for Parts A and C of the Project. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, a Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and RBZ of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 2006, and ending April 1, 2036. Each 
Page  5
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judg
ment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. RBZ is, with respect to Part B of the Project, designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out, or cause to be carried out, Parts A and C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate, administrative, technical and financial 
practices.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause RBZ to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of RBZ 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable RBZ to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts A and C of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
available to RBZ under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and RBZ under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, including provisions requiring:
(i)
periodic transfers by RBZ to the SME Credit Guarantee 
Fund and the Export Finance Guarantee Fund of amounts of 
principal and interest received from PFIs by way of 
payments and 
repayments under Subloans; and 
Page  6
(ii)
an administration fee, to be retained by RBZ from 
amounts received from the PFIs under Subloans, 
equivalent to one half of one percent of the average 
outstanding 
balance of Subloans.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. \0c
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by RBZ pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of 
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the said Parts of the Project or any portion thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than four months after the end of 
each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
Page  7
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditures submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
RBZ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that RBZ will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
or financial condition of RBZ or its ability to carry out Part B of the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RBZ or for the suspension of its 
operations; and
(e)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project (including the AID Grant and 
the NORAD 
Grant) shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; 
and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this 
Agreement.
Page  8
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and RBZ;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower has established the Administrative Secretariat in accordance 
with the provisions of Part A.2 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has employed the SBAI Administrator referred to in Part A.1 
of the Project;
(c)
the Borrower has established the ZMGS Management Team in accordance with 
the provisions of Part A.3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
RBZ has established the Apex Unit in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement and has furnished to the Association 
operating procedures satisfactory to the Association for the Apex Unit;
(e)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a project implementation 
plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association operational guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association for SBAI, ZMGS and the MM Facility;
(g)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower 
and RBZ;
(h)
at least one financial intermediary has been certified and approved in 
accordance with Part A 2(a)(vi) and 2(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for 
participation in the Project and RBZ has entered into a Participation Agreement with 
the said financial intermediary; and \0c
(i)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association guidelines for evaluating 
financial institutions, satisfactory to the Association, which are consistent with the 
Project eligibility criteria.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by RBZ, 
and is legally binding upon RBZ in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and RBZ in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  9
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Senior Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag 7705
Causeway, Harare
Zimbabwe
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
MINFIN 22141 ZW
Harare
Zimbabwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, DC.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
By /s/ Herbert Murerwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  10
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
 % of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Subloans
40,000,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(2)
Matching Grants:
100% of amounts
disbursed
(a)
PFI
   300,000
(b)
Other items 
 2,900,000
(3)
Goods under
    50,000
100% of foreign 
Parts A and C
expenditures, 100%of the 
Project
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local ex-
penditures for other
items procured locally
(4)
Training and consultant’s 
100%
services under Parts A and C
of the Project:
(a)
EPZ Authority     75,000
(b)
SEDCO
          100,000
(c)
Other items
 2,325,000
(5)
Unallocated
        1,750,000
              _________
TOTAL
              47,500,000
                     ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(b)
in respect of expenditures under Category (2) (a) unless the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association guidelines satisfactory to the Association for the 
administration of the Matching Grants available to PFIs under Part C.1 of the Project;
(c)
in respect of expenditures under Category (4) (a) unless the Borrower has 
established the EPZ Authority in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory 
to the Association;
(d)
in respect of expenditures under Category (4) (b) unless the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association a plan satisfactory to the Association for the 
strengthening of SEDCO’s financial administration and strategic focus; and
Page  11
(e)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for goods, works and services under contracts 
not exceeding an amount equivalent to: (i) $100,000 for goods, the employment of 
consulting firms and training, and (ii) $50,000 for the employment of individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in the territory of the Borrower as will contribute to the 
economic and social development of the Borrower including increases in employment.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
The Business Services Component
1.
The carrying out by an SBAI Administrator satisfactory to the Association of a 
subsector business associations initiative for a three year period aimed at nurturing 
the development of service-oriented subsector business associations, including: (i) 
the provision to the SBAI associations, under agreements to be entered into between 
the Steering Team and the SBAI associations, of direct support in the preparation of a 
business plan for the SBAI associations up to a maximum amount of $10,000 equivalent; 
and (ii) the provision to any such SBAI association of Matching Grants on (A) a 25:75 
cost sharing basis to cover the costs of delivery of sound technical programs, and (B) 
a 50:50 cost sharing basis to cover the costs of employing for a period of 12 months a 
staff person specialized in the concerns of the relevant subsector.
2.
The carrying out by the ZMGS Management Team of the ZimTrade Matching Grant 
Scheme to support private firms, through:
(a)
measures to stimulate (i) the use by such firms of foreign and domestic 
export support services, and (ii) travel by managers of firms wishing to enhance their 
skills, know-how, information and contacts in the international marketplace;
(b)
assisting such firms to prepare firm-level plans aimed at enhancing their 
competitiveness;
(c)
upgrading, extension and strengthening of the current Export Promotion 
for Support Services Program offered by ZimTrade; and
(d)
demonstrating to private firms the benefits of accessing external sources 
of information and know-how.
3.
Establishment and operation by the Steering Team of a foreign-domestic 
matchmaking initiative facility to build the export capabilities of Zimbabwean firms 
including performance-based payments on a 50:50 cost sharing basis for the use by 
individual enterprises for purposes of this Part A.3 of the Project
Part B:
The Financing Component
1.
The establishment, and management, by RBZ of an SME finance fund for the 
purposes of making Subloans to SMEs for permanent working capital and investment.
2.
The establishment, and management, by RBZ of an export finance fund for the 
purposes of making Subloans for pre-and post-shipment export financing to exporters 
with restricted access to credit.
3.
Provision of guarantees for Subloans made to SMEs and exporters through the 
establishment and management by CGA of: (i) an SME Credit Guarantee Fund, and (ii) an 
Page  12
Export Finance Guarantee Fund.
Part C:
Institutional Development Component
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the PFIs to appraise Subprojects and to make 
Subloans to SMEs and exporters, including the provision of Matching Grants.
2.
Strengthening the management and operations of SEDCO including its financial 
administration and strategic focus.
3.
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of RBZ to regulate and supervise financial 
institutions, through: (i) the provision to RBZ of technical advisory services for the 
training of RBZ’s staff in (A) on-site inspection procedures and practices, (B) 
off-site analysis, and (C) the development of implementing regulations and circulars 
under the Banking Act; and (ii) acquisition for RBZ of computer equipment.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of RBZ to operate and manage the Apex Unit and 
CGA in carrying out their functions under the Project.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of the Administrative Secretariat to carry out its 
functions under the Project including the provision of technical advisory services and 
necessary office equipment. 
5.
Strengthening the administration and operations of the Borrower's Customs and 
Excise Department through: (i) assisting the said Department in the automation and 
administration of inward processing rebate and duty drawback provisions; (ii) the 
establishment and publication of standard input-output coefficients pretabulated for 
key manufacturing export items; and (iii) the preparation of regulations and 
guidelines for the implementation of a Common bonded Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme.
6.
Strengthening the administration and management of the EPZ Authority.
7.
Strengthening the administration and operations of MOIC to enhance its capacity 
to carry out its functions under the Project, including (i) the acquisition of 
computers for MOIC; and (ii) training of staff of MOIC in financial management, 
strategic planning and interaction with the multilateral community.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(2)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, 
no withdrawal shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
the currency of any 
country which is not a member of the Association 
or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of 
the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”; and
(3)
the following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in 
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(4)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the 
Page  13
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving 
of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled" set forth at the end of 
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following words are substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 2 (b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, the Association shall, in respect 
of any 
portion of the Credit: (i) have received no applications or 
requests permitted 
under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; 
or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right to submit such 
applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to 
such amount or portion of  the Credit.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or 
portion of 
the Credit shall be canceled."
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means with respect to: (i)  the First 
Special Account, Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) the Second Special Account, Categories (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in said Schedule;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means with respect to: (i) Parts A and C 
of the Project, expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) Part B of the Project, 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Subprojects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to Category (1) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Part A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of Subloans may be made out of the First Special Account 
before the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in 
respect thereof. Such expenditures shall have qualified as eligible expenditures only 
if the Association shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent in the case of: (i) the First Special Account to $4,000,000, 
and (ii) the Second Special Account to $500,000; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to: (A) $2,000,000 in the case of the First Special Account, and (B) 
$250,000 in the case of the Second Special Account until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of: (i) SDR 8,000,000 in the 
case of the First Special Account; and (ii) SDR 1,000,000 in the case of the Second 
Special Account.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  14
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  15
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A. 
General Provisions
1.
The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts A and C of the 
Project in accordance with the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan, 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain in a form and with functions and staffing 
satisfactory to the Association a Steering Team to be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
monitoring the overall execution of the Project, 
including responsibility for reviewing the execution of 
individual components of the Project and recommending 
any 
modifications in Project design and execution;
(ii)
the appointment of the staff (including consultants) to 
assist in Project management in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement;
(iii)
the approval of SBAI Matching Grants and other 
performance-based incentives in excess of $30,000 
equivalent or such other amount as the Steering Team 
may, in 
consultation with the Association, determine;
(iv)
review of business plans and support programs of any 
SBAI association, after such SBAI association has made 
expenditures in an aggregate amount of $35,000 
equivalent 
(or such other amount as the Steering Team 
and the Association may 
from time to time determine);
(v)
confirmation of the eligibility of an SBAI association 
for any subsequent $35,000 tranche support; and
(vi)
the approval, subject to the provisions of subparagraph 
(c) of this paragraph and after prior consultation with 
the 
Association, of financial intermediaries according 
to the Project 
eligibility criteria.
(b)
The Steering Team may, with the prior agreement of the Association, form 
such committees of the Steering Team as it may consider necessary to assist it in 
carrying out of its functions under the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in a form 
satisfactory to the Association a Technical Committee of the Steering Team. The 
members of the Technical Committee shall be appointed by the Steering Team. The 
Technical Committee shall be responsible for certifying the eligible financial 
intermediaries, according to the Project eligibility criteria, on the basis of the 
results of evaluations carried out for this purpose by external auditors satisfactory 
Page  16
to the Association.
(d)
The Steering Team shall, subject to such changes in membership as the 
Borrower and the Association may from time to time determine, consist of:
(i)
a Chairman who shall be the Permanent Secretary of MOIC;
(ii)
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance;
(iii)
the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe;
(iv)
the Head of Planning, National Economic Planning 
Commission; 
(v)
the Chief Executives of (A) the Zimbabwe Investment 
Centre, (B) ZimTrade, (C) the Confederation of Zimbabwe 
Industries, (D) the Zimbabwe National Chamber of 
Commerce, and 
(E) the Bankers Association of Zimbabwe;
(vi)
a representative nominated by the indigenous business 
community; and
(vii)
such other persons as any of the above members of the 
Steering Team shall, when unable to attend the meetings 
of the 
Steering Team, designate to represent that 
member.
(e)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in a form and with 
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association an administrative secretariat 
to be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
reporting to the Steering Team on progress in carrying 
out Parts A and C of the Project;
(ii)
ensuring that the provisions of this Agreement and 
guidelines established thereunder are observed with 
respect to the carrying out of consultant services under 
the Project;
(iii)
reviewing and transmitting to the Association approvals 
of the Steering Team granted under the Project;
(iv)
preparing (A) the agenda of meetings of the Steering 
Team, and (B) quarterly reports of the Project for the 
Steering Team and the Association;
(v)
overseeing, with respect to the Borrower’s Customs and 
Excise Department and EPZ Authority, the carrying out of 
Part 
C.5 and C.6 of the Project;
(vi)
administering the PFI Matching Grants under Part C.1 of 
the Project;
(vii)
overseeing the process under which PFIs are certified as 
eligible to participate in Part B of the Project;
(viii) the carrying out of Part C.1 to C.4 of the Project; and
(ix)
ensuring the effective promotion of Project activities 
and programs.
(f)
The Administrative Secretariat shall, in the exercise of its 
responsibilities, report to the Steering Team. The Administrative Secretariat shall 
consist of a Unit Head and two assistants.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, in a form and with 
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association, a management team to carry out 
the ZimTrade Matching Grant Scheme under Part A.2 of the Project.
Page  17
(b)
The ZMGS Management Team shall consist of two qualified and competent 
full-time Zimbabwean staff and such external advisers (employed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement) as shall be required to 
provide the necessary technical support to the ZMGS Management Team. One of the said 
Zimbabwean staff shall be the leader of the ZMGS Management Team.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall jointly with RBZ and the Association carry out, not 
later than June 30, 1999, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project. The review shall, inter alia, assess:
(i)
the progress made in carrying out the various components 
of the Project, including compliance with financial, 
audit 
and other covenants relating to the Project;
(ii)
the performance of PFIs, consultants and other Project 
agencies;
(iii)
the progress of Project monitoring indicators agreed 
with the Association; and
(iv)
any corrective measures that need to be taken including 
changes, if any, in the scope and content of the 
Project.
Part B:
Matching Grants administered under Part A.1 of the Project
1.
For an SBAI association to be eligible for an SBAI  Matching Grant, it must:
(i)
allow firms which are not members of the SBAI 
association to participate in programs to be funded out 
of the 
proceeds of any SBAI Matching Grant;
(ii)
actively market such a program to such firms; and
(iii)
offer to carry out any program to be funded from the 
proceeds of an SBAI Matching Grant in cooperation with 
any 
other SBAI associations carrying out activities 
similar to 
those in the program, or allow willing 
members of the other SBAI 
associations to participate in 
the said program.
2.
Each SBAI association shall be required to contribute: (i) 25% of the costs of 
an eligible program to be funded from an SBAI Matching Grant; and (ii) 50% of the 
costs of employing a staff person. Any such Matching Grant shall not exceed an 
aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent for any one SBAI association, said amount 
being subject to modification by the Steering Team in consultation with the 
Association.
3.
The SBAI Administrator shall be responsible for approving SBAI Matching Grants 
up to an amount equivalent to $30,000, said amount being subject to modification by 
the Steering Team in consultation with the Association.
Part C:
MM Facility Administered under Part A.3 of the Project
1.
The MM Facility shall be extended to a private firm in amounts not exceeding: 
(i) $10,000 equivalent to finance 100% of the costs of one mission to Zimbabwe 
undertaken by a potential matchmaker or a potential foreign collaborator participating 
in the MM Facility program; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent to finance 50% of the costs 
specified in the contract for foreign-domestic collaboration under the MM Facility 
less the amount of any payments made under item (i) of this paragraph. The amounts 
specified in this paragraph shall be subject to change by the Steering Team in 
consultation with the Association.
2.
For a private firm to qualify for an MM Facility support covering travel costs, 
it shall submit an application to the manager of the MM Facility: (i) describing the 
proposal to be financed out of proceeds of the MM Facility; (ii) specifying the 
estimated expenditures to be financed out of the first installment of such facility; 
(iii) a summary description of the proposed visit, including firms and enterprises to 
Page  18
be visited; (iv) an outline of the collaboration activities to be carried out during 
the visit; and (v) such other information as the said manager shall reasonably 
request.
3.
For a private firm to qualify for an MM Facility support covering the costs 
specified in a contract for foreign-domestic collaboration under the MM Facility, it 
shall: (i) submit an application to the manager of the MM Facility describing (A) the 
participating collaborators, and (B) the type of collaboration envisaged by the said 
firm, namely, whether the intended collaboration is to be one of joint venture, 100% 
foreign direct investment, or a technical/marketing agreement, licensing agreement, or 
international subcontracting; (ii) furnish to the manager the relevant contract 
evidencing the details of the collaboration; and (iii) such other documentation as the 
manager shall reasonably request.
Part D:
Matching Grants Administered under Part A.2 of the Project
1.
(a)
All private firms in manufacturing, agro-processing and exportable 
services sector shall be eligible to apply for ZMGS Matching Grants which shall be 
made on a "first-come, first-served" basis.
(b)
For an applicant to qualify for a ZMGS Matching Grant, it must: (i) have 
a plan for building international competitiveness; (ii) be prepared to contribute from 
its own resources 50% of the funds required to carry out the plan; (iii) incorporate 
in the plan's design, features enabling the plan’s outputs to be measured and 
verified; (iv) furnish sufficient evidence showing that the activity to be financed 
from the ZMGS Matching Grant is likely to strengthen and improve the firm's 
performance under its business plan; and (v) furnish with its application such other 
evidence as the Steering Team shall, with the prior agreement of the Association, 
reasonably request.
2.
(a)
A ZMGS Matching Grant shall not be made to any one firm in an aggregate 
amount exceeding $100,000 equivalent; said amount being subject to modification by the 
Steering Team in consultation with the Association.
(b)
No services to be performed by ZimTrade for any firm to which a ZMGS 
Matching Grant is to be made shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the ZMGS Matching Grant.
3.
(a)
The Steering Team shall approve: (i) each proposal for a ZMGS Matching 
Grant in an amount exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (ii) all proposals for ZMGS 
Matching Grants referred to it by the ZMGS Management Team. The Steering Team may, 
with the prior agreement of the Association, modify the procedures described in this 
paragraph for the approval of ZMGS Matching Grants.
(b)
The ZMGS Management Team shall have authority to approve each ZMGS 
Matching Grant in an amount of $50,000 equivalent or less; provided that any such 
proposal shall require: (i) the joint approval of the ZMGS Management Team Leader and 
the technical adviser to the Project if in an amount of $30,000 equivalent or less; 
and (ii) the joint approval of the ZMGS Management Team Leader, the technical adviser 
to the Project as well as the Chief Executive of ZimTrade if in an amount of more than 
$30,000 equivalent; provided further that the ZMGS Management Team shall refer to the 
Steering Team, for the Steering Team’s decision, all proposals for ZMGS Matching 
Grants on which joint approvals required under this subparagraph cannot be reached. 
ZMGS Matching Grants shall be made available to firms on a reimbursable basis.
4.
The contributions of a firm to the costs of a program to be financed out of 
proceeds of a ZMGS Matching Grant shall be 50% of the value of the services financed 
out of the ZMGS Matching Grant.
Part E: 
PFI Matching Grants Administered under Part C.1 of the Project
1.
The Administrative Secretariat shall be responsible for the administration of 
PFI Matching Grants.
2. 
In order to qualify for a PFI Matching Grant, a PFI shall furnish to the 
Administrative Secretariat a training program which shall set forth in such detail as 
the Administrative Secretariat shall reasonably request: (i) the number of activities 
Page  19
(i.e. workshops, on the job training, site visits, courses attended) to be carried out 
with the PFI Matching Grant, (ii) the number of the PFI’s staff to be trained for each 
such activity, (iii) details of trainers and their sources, (iv) estimated cost for 
each training event (including staff training event), and (v) and the expected results 
and benefits of said activities.
3.
The contribution to be made by a PFI shall be 50% of the costs of a proposal to 
be funded by any such PFI Matching Grant.
Part F:
Provisions relating to Matching Grants Generally
1.
Matching Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower, acting through the 
SBAI Administrator, ZimTrade or the Administrative Secretariat, as the case may be, 
shall obtain, by written contract with the PFI or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower, 
including to the extent that it shall be appropriate the right to:
(a)
require the enterprise or PFI to carry out the proposal or program to be 
financed out of proceeds of the matching grant with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain 
adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) any goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability 
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, 
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the proposal or program;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the proposal or program, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the enterprise or PFI shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the enterprise or PFI to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the enterprise or PFI and to the benefits to be derived from 
the proposal or program; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the enterprise or PFI to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such enterprise or PFI to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
Part G:
Project Eligibility Criteria for the Participation of PFIs 
under Part B of the Project
1.
(a)
The Steering Team with the assistance of external auditors and in 
consultation with the Association shall be responsible for qualifying financial 
intermediaries on the basis of an evaluation of the solvency, financial position and 
intermediation capacity of the applicant financial intermediary.
(b)
Participation in the Project shall be open to all financial 
intermediaries licensed under the Banking Act as well as to SEDCO, the Zimbabwe 
Development Bank and such other institutions or organizations meeting the criteria of 
solvency, sound financial position and intermediation capacity as the Steering Team, 
in consultation with the Association, shall allow to participate in the Project.
(c)
Financial intermediaries shall be evaluated in accordance with the 
Page  20
information and criteria set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part.
(d)
Financial intermediaries shall be certified for initial participation in 
the Project and re-certified annually for continued participation in the Project. The 
certification procedures shall be as follows:
(i)
Financial intermediaries wishing to participate in the 
Project shall contract for an evaluation of the 
financial intermediary to be carried out by external 
auditors in 
accordance with the Project eligibility 
criteria;
(ii)
Financial intermediaries shall furnish, together with 
the said application, the information described in 
paragraph 2 of this Part; and
(iii)
the external auditors, after evaluation of the said 
information, shall furnish the Steering Team and the 
Association, through the Steering Team, with a written 
report as to 
the extent to which the financial 
intermediaries concerned 
has complied with the Project 
eligibility criteria.
(e)
The Steering Team shall have the right to revoke the certification to 
participate in the Project of any PFI found not to be in full compliance with the 
Project eligibility criteria or the provisions of the Banking Act and any enactment 
and prudential regulations relating thereto.
2.
Financial intermediaries applying to participate in the Project shall be 
required to furnish to the auditors, the Steering Team and the Association the 
following written information:
(a)
annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles; provided that with regard to new institutions detailed 
financial projections satisfactory to the Steering Team may be accepted;
(b)
unqualified opinion from external auditors, or if qualified, satisfactory 
explanation and action plan from the financial intermediary for remedying the 
situation;
(c)
a special eligibility assessment conducted by external auditors according 
to the criteria set forth in paragraph 3 of this Part; and
(d)
such other information as the Steering Team, RBZ or the Association shall 
reasonably request.
3.
(a)
The Project eligibility criteria to be applied by the external auditors 
in the evaluation of the performance of financial intermediaries shall be as follows:
(i)
management: a review of the financial management of the 
institution including its credit controls, planning 
mechanisms, staffing and information systems;
(ii)
capital adequacy: an assessment of whether (where 
applicable) the financial intermediaries risk-weighted 
capital-adequacy is in compliance with guidelines laid 
down by RBZ;
(iii)
loan and other asset quality: an assessment of the risk 
profile of loans and other assets and the sufficiency of 
capital to cover such risks;
(iv)
collection ratio: the auditors shall consider whether 
the collection ratio is sufficient to avoid erosion of 
the 
inflation adjusted net worth of the financial 
intermediary;
(v)
earnings performance: the auditors shall consider 
whether net income, adjusted for inflation (as 
determined by the Consumer Price Index), provides a 
positive 
return on equity with realistic provisions for 
expected losses;
Page  21
(vi)
liquidity position: the auditors shall indicate whether 
the financial intermediary has a sound liquidity 
position and liquidity management systems and shall also 
assess: (A) 
frequency and level of liquidity support 
from RBZ; (B) 
frequency of borrowings from the 
inter-bank market; (C) the 
relationship between new 
commitments for loans and investments 
and the resources 
available to finance such commitments; and (D) 
liquidity 
maintained to meet maturing obligations (operating 
expenses and debt-servicing liabilities);
(vii)
foreign exchange position: the auditors shall assess 
whether the financial intermediary has a proper foreign 
exchange risk monitoring and control system in place as 
stated in 
RBZ’s guidelines; and
(viii) intermediation capacity: the auditors shall review the 
capacity of the prospective PFI to effectively initiate, 
appraise, process, monitor and supervise subloans to 
SMEs and 
exporters.
(b)
The Project eligibility criteria set out in this Part of this Schedule 
shall be subject to such changes as the Steering Team in consultation with the 
Association may determine.
4.
(a)
Financial intermediaries applying for loan or credit facilities under the 
Project shall be certified or re-certified by the Steering Team as fully eligible, 
partially eligible or not eligible to participate in the Project.
(b)
Where: (i) there are deficiencies on the part of any such financial 
intermediary in meeting the guidelines set out in paragraph 3 of this Part, and (ii) 
the financial intermediary has furnished to the Steering Team an action plan 
satisfactory to the Steering Team for remedying the deficiencies, the Steering Team 
shall certify the financial intermediary as partially eligible to participate in the 
Project.
(c)
Financial intermediaries certified as partially eligible to participate 
in the Project shall be eligible to borrow under the Project the lesser of the 
following amounts, that is to say: (i) 10% of the net capital and reserves of the 
financial intermediary; or (ii) 5% of the total amount of the SME Finance Fund or the 
Export Finance Fund, said levels of borrowing being subject to modification by the 
Steering Team in consultation with the Association.
SCHEDULE 6
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods required for Parts A and C of the Project (other than goods to be financed 
under matching grants) shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods required for Parts 
A and C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of Contracts
Page  22
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $200,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000  
equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement under Matching Grants
The provisions of Part E of Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall apply to the 
procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of proceeds of matching 
grants made under Parts A and C.1 of the Project.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services required for Parts A and C of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded under the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed to by the Bank. Where no relevant contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable by the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000  equivalent each or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent each.
Page  23
3.
However, said exemptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:(i) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association, (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, (v) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
