Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7700-PY 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Public Sector Programmatic Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 26, 2009 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7700-PY
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 26, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:  
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program.  
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program, including any action listed under Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs 
and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 5, 
2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance  
(
Ministerio de Hacienda
)
Chile 128  
Asunción, Paraguay  
Facsimile: 59521-448-283 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
AGREED at 
Asunción, Paraguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
By /s/ Dionisio Borda 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HONORARY WITNESS: 
 
By: /s/ Enrique Salyn Buzarquis Cáceres 
President Chamber of Deputies 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has issued Decree 238 (dated September 13, 2008) derogating Article 9 of 
Decree 4305 (dated December 14, 2004) (as said Decree 4305 had been modified by 
Article 3 of Decree 5069 
–dated April 12, 2005) which allowed owners of large real 
estate properties to treat the amount of money paid in consideration for value added tax 
(for goods and services acquired to be used in connection with the agricultural activity of 
the relevant property) as a deductible expenditure from their agricultural income tax.   
 
2. 
The Borrower has issued Decree 1164 (dated December 26, 2008) designating exporters 
and other large businesses as withholding agents of the value added tax. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has issued Decree 10883 (dated September 11, 2007) establishing that the 
auditor of the executive branch of government (
Auditor General del Poder Ejecutivo
)
shall have ministerial ranking (
Ministro del Poder Ejecutivo
)
and granting the office of 
said auditor the capacity to, inter alia: (a) establish a standard for internal control to be 
applied to all public entities of the Borrower (
Modelo Estándar de Control Interno para 
las Entidades Públicas del Paraguay-MECIP
); and (b) determine the criteria for selection 
and removal of internal auditors working for 
the Borrower’s central administration.   
 
4. 
The Borrower has issued Decree 962 (dated November 27, 2008) approving a standard 
for internal control to be applied to all public entities of the Borrower (
Modelo Estándar 
de Control Interno para las Entidades Públicas del Paraguay- MECIP
).   
 
5.  The Borrower has issued Decree 163 (dated August 25, 2008) as amended by Decree 
1532 (dated February 20, 2009) 
creating a council made up of the Borrower’s Ministers 
of Finance, Public Works and Communications, and Trade and Industry, and the 
Borrower’s Attorney General, which council shall, 
inter alia
,
collaborate with the rest of 
the Borrower’s Executive Branch of government to determine the policy and strategy for 
management of public services, supervise the administration and management of state 
owned enterprises, and participate in the transformation and adaptation of the 
management of said state owned enterprises.  
 
6.  The Borrower has issued Decree 955 (dated November 26, 2008) establishing the 
responsibilities of the unit in charge of supervising state owned enterprises created under 
Article 7 of Decree 163 (dated August 25, 2008).   
 
7. 
The Borrower’s Ministers of Finance, Public Works and Communications, and Trade and 
Industry, and the State Attorney’s Office have signed an inter-institutional agreement 
dated February 27, 2009 defining the strategic areas where the Borrower needs to focus 
its work in order to improve the corporate governance of state owned enterprises.   
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
8. 
The Borrower has increased the proportion of social spending (including social safety net 
programs) over total spending 
(for the Borrower’s Central Administration) in the 
Borrower’s 2009 budget as compared to the Borrower’s 2008 budget.  The Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance has issued its 2009 Financing Plan maintaining the proportion of 
social spending (including social safety net programs) over total spending mandated in 
the referred Borrower’s 2009 budget. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
 
99,750,000 
Front-end Fee 
 
250,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts
.
1. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain the following two 
deposit accounts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in Dollars at the Borrower’s Central Bank; and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in 
Guaraníes
 (the official currency of the Borrower) at 
the Borrower’s Central Bank.   
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Borrower shall deposit an equivalent amount into 
the Local Currency Deposit Account.   
 
D
.
Audit.
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
not later than four months after each disbursement of Loan proceeds to the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account; 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after each audit set forth above has been carried out, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Accounts and 
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 1, 2011. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
beginning September 15, 2017  
 
through September 15, 2035 
 
2.63% 
On March 15, 2036 
2.69% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the Local 
Currency Deposit Account. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
Gold, 
non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  12
-11- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C. 1 (a) of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C. 1 (b) of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated March 25, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
Page  13
-12- 
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank 
shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and 
shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (d) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
