Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:   AB4582
 
Project Name 
Paraguay Public Sector Reform 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P113457 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Paraguay 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
February 25, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 5, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
May 5, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Country Context 
The victory of Fernando Lugo, a former Catholic bishop, in the presidential elections of April 20, 
2008 ended 61 years of Colorado Party dominance. 
The key priorities of Mr. Lugo’s Government 
and his political alliance, the 
Alianza Para el Cambio (APC),
 include a deep commitment to 
improve governance and government institutions and to reduce corruption, to improve the 
livelihoods and opportunities for the poor in a sustainable fashion, to strengthen the management 
of the country’s vast hydroelectric resources, and to consolidate the country’s democratic process. 
The Government and 
APC
 have also adopted a pragmatic economic policy stance based on 
maintaining sound macroeconomic management and a balanced view of the role of the State, while 
safeguarding the environment. However, the Government is also confronting challenges in 
pursuing these goals due to country specific institutional constraints, political context, and the 
effects of the international financial and economic crisis. 
Paraguay’s public sector performance is poor and characterized by weak planning, policy 
implementation and service delivery. The public sector’s weak performance is clearly evidenced in 
its poor track record in social sector delivery, for instance in the prevention of epidemic diseases 
and infant mortality, as well as its difficulty in executing capital expenditures. There are many 
opportunities for improvement in areas ranging from (i) policy planning, (ii) resource allocation 
and budget execution: (iii) monitoring and evaluation; (iv) financial control; (v) institutional re-
organization and development, and (vi) professionalization and de-politization of the civil service 
to name a few. 
The legislative branch is endowed with a strong role within Paraguay’s division of powers, 
including attributions more usually held by the Executive including, inter alia, influence over the 
determination of individual civil servant salaries and the control over the approval process for 
externally financed projects. In addition, per the Financial Administration Law, the Legislature 
likewise has authority to increase total budgeted expenditures. The scope of legislative powers, 
compounded with party fragmentation in Congress, significantly undermine overall Government 
effectiveness, particularly as regards the Executive’s ability to embark on reform initiatives. This is 
enhanced by the current political context, as the 
APC
 did not obtain a majority of seats in either of 
Page  2
the two chambers of Congress, and passage of each new law is likely to entail broader coalition 
building efforts. 
Government effectiveness in Paraguay is likewise affected by the prevalence of a clientelistic 
bureaucracy, and by the lack of inter-institutional coordination. On the one hand, the appointment 
and promotion of civil servants is significantly politicized; there are notorious salary distortions 
and arbitrariness that negatively affect incentives; while a significant proportion of civil servants 
demonstrate low professional skills. On the other hand, inter-institutional coordination mostly 
takes place at the Minister or General Director levels and rarely involves lower level positions. The 
absence of adequate formal mechanisms for inter-institutional communication and coordination 
frequently leads to institutional duplication and overlap. 
Economic Developments and Outlook
 
Between 2003 and 2007, Paraguay experienced its biggest economic expansion since the 1970s, 
supported by a favorable external environment and sound macroeconomic policies. This period of 
rapid growth was fuelled by a recovery in domestic consumption and investment. Exports were 
boosted by high international commodity prices. The production of soy, which accounts for 40 
percent of total exports, more than doubled between 2001 and 2008. Agriculture grew at an 
average annual rate of seven percent in real terms, more than any other sector. The service sector 
also performed strongly, driven by trade, transport and communication. At the same time, imports 
grew even faster boosted by domestic demand, resulting in negative net exports. 
Table 1: Paraguay: Key macroeconomic indicators
 
2004
2005
2006
2007
Real GDP growth (%)
4.1
2.9
4.3
6.8
GDP per capita (US$)
1,205
1,267
1,546
1,997
CPI inflation (eop, % change)
2.8
9.9
12.5
6.0
Central government primary balance (% of GDP)
2.7
2.0
1.5
1.8
Central government overall balance (% of GDP)
1.6
0.8
0.5
1.0
Current account (% of GDP)
2.1
0.2
1.3
0.8
Real effective exchange date (2000=100)
127.7
145.3
127.3
117.9
Source: Central Bank, Ministerio de Hacienda, IMF and Bank staff estimate
s. 
Despite progress in recent years, poverty and inequality remain high relative to other Latin 
American countries. Incidence of moderate poverty peaked at 46 percent in 2002, and has since 
then fallen to 35.6 percent. Extreme poverty has fallen from 21.7 to 19.4 percent during the same 
period. This fall suggests that the recent economic growth has been to some extent pro-poor. 
Despite this positive trend, poverty levels are now only back at the levels observed in the late 
1990s, suggesting that poverty remains a structural problem. At 0.55, Paraguay’s Gini coefficient 
of income distribution is the fourth highest in Latin America. The richest 10 percent of the 
population accounts for between 42 and 47 percent of total income. Similarly, inequality in land 
distribution is among the highest in the world. Reducing poverty and inequality in a sustained 
manner thus remains an important challenge, particularly with regards to access to productive 
assets, possibilities to accumulate human capital, and labor market opportunities. 
The administration is committed to continue implementing prudent macroeconomic policies, and is 
focusing on fiscal sustainability, improved competitiveness and equitable growth – as laid out in 
the Government’s Strategic Economic and Social Plan for 2008-13 presented in September 2008. 
A
key objective of the Plan is to create fiscal space, particularly on the revenue side, to dedicate 
more resources to priority spending programs, especially those aimed at reducing poverty.
1
In 
order to achieve this, the Government is committed to maintaining inflation within single digits, 
1
This commitment was reinforced in the Economic Revitalization Plan announced in early 2009. 
Page  3
gradually increasing tax collections through better administration and the introduction of new 
taxes, and improving the efficiency of public spending. The plan also envisages important reforms 
to SOEs that would help address the contingent liabilities that these companies represent. This will 
be even more important considering the unfavorable external environment Paraguay is now facing 
as a result of the international economic crisis.  
2. 
Operation Objectives  
The overall development objective of the proposed Programmatic Development Policy Loan 
(PDPL) is to contribute to the effectiveness and efficiency of the public sector, while maintaining a 
stable macroeconomic policy framework. This will be achieved by: (i) strengthening tax 
collections and improving the equity of the tax system; (ii) improving the effectiveness of internal 
financial controls for the Central Administration through the establishment of a standardized 
internal control framework, and a professional and independent internal audit function; (iii) 
ensuring that the State exert effective oversight of state-owned enterprises (SOEs); (iv) improving 
the efficiency and equity of social and capital expenditure with a view to better deliver public 
services; and (v) contributing to the professionalization of the civil service through the adoption of 
merit-based rules of recruitment and promotion of civil servants. Those objectives are inter-related 
and address three main public sector outcomes: revenue stability, accountability, and public sector 
efficiency. 
The 
operation aims to contribute to the Government Plan’s overall objective of achieving 
sustainable and more equitable growth through direct support to three of its pillars: (i) 
macroeconomic policy; (ii) state-owned enterprises; and (iii) state modernization. Addressing these 
three pillars will also have an impact on all seven strategic pillars of the Government Plan, in terms 
of policy responsiveness and effective delivery of public service. 
The PDPL is also expected to generate benefits in the short term by (i) safeguarding the proportion 
of budgeted social expenditures during execution, as a contribution of the anti-crisis plan; and (ii) 
paving the way for the reform process in the above-cited areas supported by the loan. 
To these ends, the PDPL includes a series of three operations to be executed sequentially between 
FY09 and FY11. Their respective tentative envelopes are US$100 million for the PDPL I and 
US$50 for each of the two subsequent loans. The PDPL includes four components: tax system; 
public sector financial control, covering central administration internal financial control and SOEs 
oversight; expenditure management; and human resources management. It features clearly defined 
upfront actions, and monitorable medium-term outcome indicators addressing key country 
development challenges.  
The following actions will be taken prior to Board presentation of PDPL I: 
Page  4
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
This programmatic series of DPLs constitutes the centerpiece of the 2009-2013 CPS. The three 
cross-cutting themes addressed by the CPS program 
–
governance, poverty reduction and 
sustainable growth – are supported by the series of PDPLs. First, with up to 40 percent of the CPS 
envelope, the PDPLs will serve as the main instrument through which the CSP will provide direct 
support to the governance theme. Second, the PDPLs will contribute to the poverty reduction and 
sustainable growth objectives of the CSP by supporting both macro-fiscal stability and fiscal space 
through increased tax revenue and higher social and capital expenditures – which is critical in the 
context of the current global economic crisis. Third, there are strong synergies between the PDPLs 
and several other Bank operations in Paraguay. Furthermore, the PDPLs are expected to play a key 
role in donor coordination, as evidenced in the recent cooperation for the preparation of the PDPL 
I
package. 
This first programmatic loan represents a significant proportion of the multi-donor emergency 
package supporting the 2009 anti-crisis plan. The US$300 million package is expected to be jointly 
funded by the World Bank, IDB, JICA and CAF. While the Bank and IDB are leading the work on 
distinct and complementary policy areas, CAF and JICA are expected to provide further support to 
these policy areas. In addition, the programmatic approach of the PDPLs provides the Government 
and relevant development stakeholders with a roadmap to undertake reforms in the areas identified 
in the matrix in a sequenced and coordinated manner. 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
Component I: Tax System 
·
Government has derogated the provision that allowed big landowners to use what they paid for VAT as fisca
l
credit against the agricultural income tax. 
·
Government has adopted decree to designate exporters and large businesses as withholding agents of the VAT.
Component II: Public Sector Financial Control 
Central Administration Internal Financial Control 
·
Gover
nment has (i) issued a decree to upgrade the Office of the Executive’s Internal Auditor (AGPE) to 
ministerial level and to give AGPE the authority to establish a standard internal control model (MECIP) and 
determine the criteria for the selection of intern
al auditors throughout the Central Administration; and (ii) 
adopted the MECIP as the internal control model to be used by all public entities
.
Effective Oversight of SOEs
·
Government has issued decree to establish a Council for State Owned Enterprises (CEP)
to ensure, inter alia, (i) 
public sector oversight of SOEs, and (ii) the definition of a Government policy for SOE reform. 
·
Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Industry and Trade, and the State Attorney’s Office have signed an 
inter-institutional agreement, defining the strategic areas to improve the corporate governance of SOEs. 
 
Component III: Expenditure Management 
·
Ministry of Finance maintains in the 2009 Financial Plan the increased proportion of social spending 
(including for social safety net pro
grams) over total Central Administration expenditures mandated in the 2009 
budget (as compared to the 2008 budget), focusing on social programs that have been proven to be efficient 
and equitable.
 
Component IV: Human Resources Management 
·
To be supported under PDPLs II & III
 
Page  5
Total 100 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Bank and Government have agreed to regularly monitor progress under the PDPL program, 
including during periodic CPS implementation reviews. Discussions will be held with the Ministry 
of Finance, the main counterpart agency for the loan, which will be responsible for the overall 
monitoring and evaluation of the loan and for collecting data necessary to assess implementation 
progress from appropriate sources. Other agencies that will play an important role in this process 
are the Central Bank, the Public Administration Agency (SFP), the Council for SOEs, the Public 
Administration Secretariat (SFP), and the Internal Audit office of the Executive Power. The CPS 
review will focus on complying with the agreed triggers for continued policy-based lending, in 
particular, maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and progress on the overall 
structural program. 
Fiduciary Arrangements. 
Overall, Paraguay’s public financial management (PFM) remains weak 
and represents a high risk. The three main PFM challenges identified by IFA are related to 
improvements in: budget process efficiency, fiscal transparency, and control effectiveness. In 
particular, despite recent Government efforts, the limited degree of control system effectiveness 
continues to pose one of the country’s biggest PFM challenge. The common features underlying 
each of these challenges is their linkage to Paraguay’s political and institutional context and the 
difficulty in addressing their technical dimension without adopting broader governance changes. 
The Government is committed to address PFM and particularly control effectiveness issues. This 
commitment is most clearly evidenced in (i) the reforms recently initiated with the assistance of 
the USAID 
Umbral
 program, and (ii) through the prior actions and outcomes agreed within the 
framework of the PDPL, that expressly target strengthening of public financial control 
effectiveness, and improving overall efficiency in the allocation and execution of budget resources. 
The IMF completed an update of the safeguards assessment of Central Banks in October 2006. In 
the case of Paraguay, the report states that while the Central Bank has made some progress in 
strengthening the safeguard framework since the 2003 safeguard assessment, vulnerabilities 
remain in certain areas such as financial and program data reporting to the Fund. However, 
according to the assessment, the current foreign exchange control environment within the central 
bank is satisfactory. According to the IMF 2007 Article IV Consultation, although significant 
progress has been made towards enhancing the health of the financial system, the much needed 
financial sector reform, in particular the strengthening of bank regulation and banking law, has not 
taken place. 
Disbursements and Audits. 
Given the level of PFM risk and the weaknesses identified in the 
control environment surrounding Central Bank operations, and in accordance with Bank policies 
and procedures for DPLs, the Bank has identified the need for additional fiduciary arrangements to 
mitigate the potential reputational risk that loan proceeds be used for unintended purposes. As 
explained earlier, these additional fiduciary arrangements call for: (a) the establishment of a 
dedicated deposit account at the Central Bank whereby loan proceeds will be deposited by the 
Bank, (b) an audit of the dedicated deposit account to be undertaken within four months of the 
disbursement of loan proceeds, according to international audits standards and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank.  
More specifically, disbursement arrangements for the proposed loan will follow Bank 
disbursement procedures for DPLs and will take into account additional fiduciary arrangements 
described in (a) in above paragraph: once the loan is approved by the Board and becomes effective, 
the proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in the dedicated deposit account in the 
Page  6
Central Bank of Paraguay at the request of the Borrower. The Borrower shall ensure that such 
funds be included in the country’s budget and subject to the country’s normal PFM processes. 
The dedicated deposit account will be audited according to Bank policies and procedures and 
should follow the approach outlined in the relevant Bank guidelines. The audit should be carried 
out within four month of the single tranche disbursement and the scope should cover (a) the 
accuracy of the summary of transactions of the dedicated account, and (b) accuracy of exchange 
rate conversions. If the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (the “negative list”) as 
defined in the Development Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to promptly 
upon notice from the Bank refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
In the short term, the DPL will support two overriding benefits
,
namely: (i) safeguarding the 
proportion of budgeted social expenditures during execution, as a contribution of the anti-crisis 
plan; and (ii) paving the way of the reform process in the areas supported by the loan. 
 
In the medium term, it is anticipated that reforms supported by the proposed loan series will 
improve the responsiveness and the credibility of Paraguay Public Sector through: 
·
Strengthening tax collections and improving the equity of the tax system; 
·
Improving the effectiveness of internal financial control for the Central Administration through 
the establishment of a standardized internal control framework, and a professional and 
independent internal audit function; 
·
Ensuring the State exert an effective oversight on state-owned enterprises (SOEs) through: the 
establishment of a consolidated institution acting as shareholder of SOEs on behalf of the 
State; the adoption of transparent and effective financial and business management rules for the 
SOEs; and the establishment of a single independent regulatory agency; 
·
Improving the efficiency and equity of social and capital expenditure with a view to better 
deliver public services; 
·
Contributing to the professionalization of the civil service through the adoption of merit-based 
rules of recruitment and promotion of civil servants. 
 
Risks  
 
The risks associated with the PDPL are considered high
.
However, there is no risk of non-
compliance with the prior actions for the PDPL 1, as they have already been carried out by the 
Government. 
 
Economic risks are high. 
A
further deterioration in the external environment could have negative 
effects on Paraguay’s economy beyond those foreseen in the baseline projections. Vulnerabilities 
are particularly high with regards to the economic situation of Paraguay’s two large neighbors: 
even though there has been progress in diversifying export markets, Argentina and Brazil still 
account for 26 percent of all exports. If the decline in demand for Paraguay’s soy and meat exports 
is greater than anticipated, economic growth may slow down even further. An increase in non-
performing loans as a result of a decline in agricultural production would put pressure on the 
financial system, which could ultimately result in important fiscal costs. In the presence of 
Page  7
relatively high fiscal rigidities and limited space for higher tax collections in the short run, lower 
growth could also result in a higher than expected fiscal deficit. There is also a significant 
exchange rate risk, as a large share of public sector debt is denominated in foreign currency and 
dollarization of the financial system remains high. However, as the debt sustainability analysis 
shows, the fiscal risks are manageable, and the financial sector is currently more robust than it has 
been in years. Overall, continued prudent macroeconomic management will be critical to reduce 
the impact of external shocks. It would also be important to continue strengthening of the financial 
system, including through better supervision and regulation especially of the cooperatives which 
represent a significant risk. 
Political risks are high. 
Mr. Lugo’s Government may lose its political margin of maneuver to 
implement its program, and therefore progressively lose its political credibility and support.
 
In 
particular, the administration’s political alliance is relatively fragmented and does not benefit from 
a
majority of seats in Congress. 
Managerial and sustainability risks are high.
 The compounded effect of the above-mentioned 
political risk, the limited capacities of public sector human resources, and the insufficient inter-
institutional coordination represents a high risk for successfully implementing the Government’s 
reform program. In addition, triggers for the PDPL 2 related to the reform of SOEs will include 
legal changes and require an intensive path of activities. The current lack of majority in Congress 
coupled with limited capacities of the public administration represents the main managerial risks 
that could prevent implementation of those actions. Given that the objective of the proposed 
measures directly supports the government’s anti-crisis plan, the government’s ability and capacity 
to implement those measures is not expected to be negatively affected by the crisis. Mitigating 
measures are expected to include enhanced dialogue between the political and social stakeholders 
of the Government reform plan, and financial and technical support from International Financial 
Institutions and donors. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
Actions supported under the programmatic series are expected to have an overall positive impact 
on poverty. The tax policy reforms supported under the PDPL 1 are not likely to have significant 
effects on the poor, and analytical work will be undertaken by the Government to assess the 
poverty and equity impact of tax policy actions supported under subsequent DPLs of the proposed 
program. The increase in social and investment spending foreseen for the program period is likely 
to have significant beneficial impacts on overall poverty and equity. Finally, measures related to 
financial control effectiveness, supervision of SOEs and civil service reform, are not likely to have 
significant direct poverty or equity effects. 
Environmental Aspects 
The specific policies supported by the proposed PDPL I are not expected to significantly impact 
the environment, forests or other natural resources.
 
However, to the extent that measures supported 
by the PDPL I program are successful, over time, in improving effectiveness and efficiency of 
public sector, Paraguay’s national institutional capacity to identify and address environmental 
policy and regulatory issues will be strengthened. Paraguay’s environmental institutional and 
policy framework is defined under Law 1561 of 2000 and Law 3679 of 2008. The institutional 
framework consists of the Secretariat for Environment and the National Environment Council 
which are responsible for defining the environment policy and monitoring the environment system 
defined by Law 1561. 
Page  8
Contact point 
Contact: Alexandre Arrobbio 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel:  + 54 11 4316 9715 
Fax: + 54 11 4316 9700 
Email: aarrobbio@worldbank.org 
Location: Buenos Aires, Argentina (IBRD) 
 
8. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
