                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001966



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-77000)



                                  ON A LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                     FOR A

  FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                 October 5, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective October 5, 2011)
                         Currency Unit = Guaraní (G$)
                        G$1.00              US$0.00024
                        US$1.00              G$4,190.00

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGPE       Auditoría General del Poder Ejecutivo (Office of the Executive’s Internal Auditor)
ANDE       Administración Nacional de Electricidad (National Power Authority)
CEP        Consejo de Empresas Públicas (Council for State-Owned Enterprises)
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DPL        Development Policy Loan
FEPASA     Ferrocarriles del Paraguay Sociedad Anónima (Paraguay Railways)
HRM        Human Resources Management
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFI        International Financial Institution
IMAGRO     Impuesto a la Renta de Actividades Agropecuarias (Agricultural Income Tax)
IPR        Impuesto Personal a la Renta (Individual Income Tax)
ISR        Implementation Status Reports
LAFE       Ley de Administración Financiera (Financial Administration Law)
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MECIP      Modelo Estándar de Control Interno para las Entidades Públicas del Paraguay
           (Paraguay Standard Model of Internal Control)
MOP        Ministerio de Obras Públicas (Ministry of Public Works)
NLTA       Non Lending Technical Assistance
PDO        Project Development Objective
PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PETROPAR   Petróleos Paraguayos (Paraguayan Oil Company)
PREM       Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
SET        Subsecretaría de Estado de Tributación (Under-Secretariat of State Taxes)
SFP        Secretaría de la Función Pública (Public Administration Secretariat)
SICCA      Sistema Integrado de Control de Cumplimiento de la Carrera Administrativa
           (Integrated System for the Consolidated Control of the Administrative Career)
SOE        State-Owned Enterprise
UMEP       Unidad de Monitoreo de las Empresas Públicas (SOE Monitoring Unit)
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
VAT        Value-Added Tax

                       Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                     Country Director:   Penelope Brook
                      Sector Manager:    Arturo Herrera
                 Project Team Leader:    Alexandre Arrobbio
                    ICR Team Leader:     Alexandre Arrobbio
                                                      PARAGUAY
                  First Public Sector Programmatic Development Policy Loan
                                          CONTENTS
     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring

Table of Contents
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1 
1.1 Context at Appraisal ..................................................................................................... 1 
     1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators .............. 3 
     1.3   Revised PDO and Key Indicators with Reasons/Justification......................... 3 
     1.4   Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved) .................... 3 
     1.5 Revised Policy Areas............................................................................................. 4 
     1.6 Other significant changes ...................................................................................... 5 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6 
     2.1 Program Performance ............................................................................................ 6 
     2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation .............................................................. 7 
     2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ...... 9 
     2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation .......................................................... 9 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 10 
     3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ....................................... 10 
     3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ............................................ 10 
     3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................. 24 
     3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts........................................... 24 
     3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 25 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 25 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 26 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................... 28 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.............. 29 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 30 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 31 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 31 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 32 
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 32 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 33 
Annex 7. Policy Matrix for Paraguay’s First Public Policy Programmatic Development
           Policy Loan....................................................................................................... 34 
Annex 8. Level of Fulfillment to date of Triggers for PDPL2 and Indicative Medium-
          Term Actions for PDPL3 .................................................................................. 36 
MAP          38 

                                                               ii
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                               Paraguay Public Sector
Country:              Paraguay                      Program Name:
                                                                               Reform
Program ID:           P113457                       L/C/TF Number(s):          IBRD-77000
ICR Date:             10/05/2011                    ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                                                                               REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:   DPL                           Borrower:
                                                                               PARAGUAY
Original Total
                      USD 100.00M                   Disbursed Amount:          USD 100.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 100.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process               Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/18/2008        Effectiveness:               08/26/2009        08/26/2009
Appraisal:            03/13/2009        Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/05/2009        Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                     03/01/2011        03/01/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate to Significant
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings               Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory     Government:               Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                               Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                               Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators QAG Assessments (if any)       Rating:
 Potential Problem Program at any
                                  No                     Quality at Entry (QEA):      None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Program at any time        No                    Quality of Supervision (QSA): None


                                                   iii
(Yes/No):
 DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                   Satisfactory
status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       33            33
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        17            17
General industry and trade sector                                       33            33
Other social services                                                   17            17


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                                    16          16
Other public sector governance                                          20          20
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                32          32
Tax policy and administration                                           32          32
E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Penelope J. Brook                Pedro Alba
Sector Manager:           Arturo Herrera Gutierrez         Nicholas Paul Manning
Program Team Leader:      Alexandre Arrobbio               Alexandre Arrobbio
ICR Team Leader:          Alexandre Arrobbio
ICR Primary Author:       William V. Mayville
                          Maria Cecilia Zanetta

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall development objective of the Programmatic Development Policy Loan
(PDPL) is to contribute to the effectiveness and efficiency of the public sector while
maintaining a stable macroeconomic policy framework. This will be achieved by: (i)
improving revenue collections and the equity of the tax system; (ii) improving the
effectiveness of Central Administration internal and financial control; (iii) exerting
effective SOE oversight to ensure sound and transparent financial management; (iv)
improving the efficiency and equity of social capital expenditures; and (v) contributing to
the professionalization of the civil service. These objectives are inter-related and address
three main public sector outcomes: revenue stability, accountability, and public sector
efficiency.



                                                   iv
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target      Formally           Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised            Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target            Completion or
                                            documents)          Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Increase Tax/GDP Ratio by at least 0.9% of GDP
Value
(quantitative or   11.90 %*                 12.8 %                              13.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                03/01/2011                          12/31/2010
                   Achieved: Tax collections exhibited a sustained increase during the 2008-2010
Comments
                   period. This is remarkable, given the drop in GDP in 2009 as a result of the
(incl. %
                   international financial crisis. The original target was exceeded two years ahead
achievement)
                   of schedule.
                   Increase in PEFA Rating for internal control and external audit (PI-20 and PI-
Indicator 2 :
                   21) for 50 percent of the ministries and Secretariats are rated C
                                                                                 2010 IFA rating is
                                                                                 expected to be C
Value                                        2010 IFA rating is
                   2008 IFA rating was                                           for PI-20 and PI-21
(quantitative or                             C for PI-20 and
                   D+ for PI-20 and PI-21                                        the Central
Qualitative)                                 PI-21
                                                                                 Administration as a
                                                                                 whole
Date achieved      12/31/2008                03/01/2011                          02/15/2011
                   Achieved: 5 out of 11 ministries representing 70% of the overall budget, have
Comments
                   established internal control norms and committees; staff has been trained in
(incl. %
                   the implementation of MECIP; their respective internal control units have
achievement)
                   adequate HR
Indicator 3 :      Annual publication of audited 2010 financial statements for each SOE
                                                                                 Audited financial
                                             Annual publication
                   No annual audited                                             statements for eight
                                             and audited
Value              financial statements in                                       of the nine SOEs
                                             financial
(quantitative or   line with international                                       accounting for 99%
                                             statements for
Qualitative)       standards available for                                       of overall SOE
                                             each SOE from
                   SOEs                                                          expenditures were
                                             2010
                                                                                 published in 2009
Date achieved      12/31/2008                03/31/2011                          02/15/2011
                   Achieved: 4 of the 9 SOEs have already published their 2010 audited financial
Comments
                   statements, and 4 are expected to have them published soon. The ninth SOE,
(incl. %
                   which is being liquidated, is audited by the Office of the Executive’s Internal
achievement)
                   Auditor (AGPE).
Indicator 4 :      Increase of beneficiaries of conditional cash transfers from Tekopora Program
Value
                   13,679                   100,000                             83,100
(quantitative or
                   beneficiaries            beneficiaries                       beneficiaries
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008             03/31/2011                        12/31/2010
Comments           Largely achieved: The Tekopora program is expected to reach its target by

                                                 v
(incl. %           2012. The selection process, based on both geographic selection & a door-to-
achievement)       door census, targeted the very poor. Roughly 40% of households in extreme
                   poverty are covered under the program
Indicator 5 :      Percentage of the paved road network that receives periodic maintenance
Value
(quantitative or   25% maintenance           50%                              45%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                03/31/2011                         12/31/2010
                   Largely achieved: The maintenance of the paved road network has improved
Comments
                   substantially resulting from newly earmarked budgetary allocations for road
(incl. %
                   maintenance, as well as the implementation of performance-based maintenance
achievement)
                   contracts.
                   Percentage of personnel recruitments and promotions that are based on merit
Indicator 6 :
                   and professional skills
                                                                                Over 10,000 new
                                             100% of new                        recruitments and
                                             recruitment is                     promotions were
Value              Merit-based personnel
                                             based on clearly                   based on clearly
(quantitative or   selection processes are
                                             specified merit-                   specified merit-
Qualitative)       rare
                                             based selection                    based selection
                                             criteria                           criteria between
                                                                                2008 and 010.
Date achieved      12/31/2008                03/31/2011                         12/31/2010
Comments           Undetermined: Because there is no centralized information on recruitments and
(incl. %           promotions, it is not possible to determine the proportion selected using merit-
achievement)       based criteria.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      06/23/2009           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2      12/14/2009           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   99.75
  3      02/28/2011           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   99.75

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                   vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Upon assuming office in 2008, the Lugo administration articulated its overall
strategy in the Strategic Economic and Social Plan for 2008-2013. This Plan aimed to achieve
a sustainable and equitable economic growth path, and to improve effectiveness and efficiency of
the public sector, while addressing the urgent needs of Paraguay’s most vulnerable groups.
Given Paraguay’s institutional context, public sector reform was a key priority of this Plan. The
new administration, however, confronted significant challenges while pursuing these goals due
to the effects of the international financial and economic crisis as well as Paraguay’s specific
structural and institutional constraints.

2.      The Government’s Plan was complemented by prudent macroeconomic policies
aimed at creating fiscal space for priority spending programs, particularly in social areas.
To achieve this, the Government committed itself to keeping inflation in the single digits. It also
committed itself to gradually increasing tax collections through a better tax administration and
the introduction of new taxes, as well as improving the efficiency of public spending. The plan
also envisaged important reforms to state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to help address their poor
performance in terms of service delivery and their lack of financial and managerial transparency.

3.      Enhancing the performance of Paraguay’s public sector was a necessary condition
for enhancing governance and transparency while achieving equitable economic growth.
Two decades of institutional reform under the new constitutional framework achieved a
simplified tax scheme, the appointment of a new Supreme Court, and the approval of a Financial
Administrative Law (LAFE). However, major subsequent public sector reform initiatives
addressing high levels of inefficiency and ineffectiveness, high politicization, and widespread
corruption within the public sector were systematically blocked. These included civil service
reform, the privatization of loss-making SOEs, and more recently, the tax reform in 2004. The
2008 election of a reform-minded administration provided new momentum to the efforts of
reform, focused on raising the public sector’s weak performance in the delivery of social services
and in capital expenditure.

4.      The operation was prepared in a context of an uncertain economic outlook for
Paraguay. Following a period of unprecedented economic expansion and prudent
macroeconomic policy between 2004 and 2008, the international economic crisis posed a serious
threat to the Paraguayan economy through lower commodity prices and reduced demand for
Paraguayan exports, especially soy and meat. In addition, the country experienced a severe
drought which further devastated the agriculture sector. In response, the government decided to
implement an Anti-Crisis Plan for 2009, which aimed at safeguarding priority social and
investment spending programs, maintaining liquidity in the financial system and ensuring access
to credit by the productive sectors. Despite the reorientation in short-term economic priorities,
the Government remained committed to the macroeconomic objectives set out in the
Government Plan, including a gradual increase in tax collections through better tax
administration and the introduction of new taxes; an improvement in the efficiency of public
spending, and reforms of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs).
                                                1
5.      While the crisis had a significant impact in the short run, the Government quickly
implemented a comprehensive Anti-Crisis Plan, and the economy rebounded strongly. GDP
contracted by 3.8 percent in 2009, largely due to a fall in agricultural production. Paraguay’s
external position, on the other hand, remained relatively stable, due to the fact that imports fell
even more than exports, and remittances declined by less than 1 percent. The Government’s
Anti-Crisis Plan was instrumental in maintaining domestic demand and investment, and in
limiting the effects on the poor (see PDO 3.1). The policy response included: (i) injection of
liquidity into the financial system; (ii) fiscal expansion to safeguard priority social and
investment spending programs; (iii) provision of financing to productive sectors through the
state-owned development agency; and (iv) mobilization of external financing from International
Financial Institutions (IFIs) to ensure adequate resources for the Government Plan. As a result,
economic growth began picking up in the last quarter of 2009, and reached a record 15.3 percent
in 2010. On the fiscal side, and despite the stimulus, the Government maintained a small surplus
thanks to better than expected tax collections, which showed that the improvements in tax
administration and tax policy that began in 2004 had paid off. The fiscal stimulus was gradually
reduced in 2010 and tax receipts continued to improve. The maintenance of fiscal discipline even
during the crisis helped put public debt ratios back on a downward trend beginning in 2010.

            Key Macroeconomic Indicators (% of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                   2006     2007    2008     2009      2010
Real GDP (% change)                                  4.3      6.8     5.8     -3.8      15.3
Consumer price inflation (% change, eop)            12.5      6.0     7.5      1.9       7.2
External current account balance                     1.4      1.4    -1.8      0.3      -3.2
Central Government revenues                         18.3     17.6    17.3     19.6      19.2
 o/w tax revenue                                    12.0     11.4    11.8     13.0      13.4
Expenditure                                         17.8     16.7    14.8     19.6      17.8
 Current expenditure                                13.7     12.9    12.2     15.0      14.0
 Capital expenditure                                 4.2      3.8     2.7      4.6       3.8
Primary balance                                      1.5      1.8     3.1      0.7       1.8
Overall fiscal balance                               0.5      1.0     2.5      0.1       1.4
Public sector gross debt                            24.8     25.1    20.5     22.2      18.8
 o/w foreign currency denominated debt              22.2     17.5    15.1     14.6      12.6
Source: Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of Paraguay.


Rationale for Bank’s involvement
6.      The Public Sector Programmatic DPL series was conceived within the context of the
Bank’s FY09-13 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) to support the Government Plan,
mainly for Public Sector Reforms, and the Anti-Crisis Plan. Specifically, the operation
supported the Government Plan’s overall objective of achieving sustainable and more equitable
growth by providing direct support to three of its pillars: (i) macroeconomic policy; (ii) state-
owned enterprises (SOEs); and (iii) state modernization. The operation also supported the Anti-
Crisis Plan aimed at creating fiscal space to soften the impact of the crisis through an increase in
public investment and prioritized social expenditures.




                                                      2
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The short-term objective of the PDPL was to: (i) safeguard the proportion of budgeted
social expenditure during execution, as part of the Anti-crisis Plan; and (ii) pave the way for
reform in the areas supported by the loan.

8.      The Program Development’s overall medium-term objective was to contribute to the
effectiveness and efficiency of the public sector while maintaining a stable macroeconomic
policy framework. This, in turn, was to be achieved by focusing on four policy areas. The
corresponding project-specific PDOs and Key Outcome Indicators are described below:1

            Paraguay’s First Public Sector Programmatic Development Policy Loan – PDPL1
                 Program Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Outcome Indicators
                                         Policy Area 1. Tax System
PDO 1 - Improving revenue collections and the equity of the tax system.
 Tax/GDP ratio increases by at least 0.9% by 2012-2013 (i.e., to 12.8% in 2012).
 The elimination of credits on VAT deductions from IMAGRO has an impact equivalent to 0.75% of GDP.
 The designation of 114 VAT withholding agents has an impact equivalent to 0.15% of GDP.
                               Policy Area 2. Public Sector Financial Control
PDO 2.1 - Improving the effectiveness of the Central Administration’s internal financial control.
 PEFA indicators for internal control and internal audits (PI-20 and PI-21) for 50% of the ministries are rated C.
PDO 2.2 - Exerting effective oversight of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to ensure sound and transparent financial
management.
 Annual publication of audited financial statements for each SOE from 2010.
 Definition of medium-term financial targets for SOEs by the Holding.
                                   Policy Area 3. Expenditure Management
PDO 3 - Improving the efficiency and equity of social and capital expenditures.
 Improvements are verified by the coverage of the social safety net through the increase of beneficiaries of the
  conditional cash transfers from the Tekoporá program to 100,000 families in extreme poverty.
 The quality of public infrastructure has improved, as reflected by the proportion of the paved road network that
  receives periodic maintenance.
                               Policy Area 4. Human Resources Management
PDO 4 - Contributing to the professionalization of the civil service.
 100% of new recruitment is based on merit and skills.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators
with Reasons/Justification
 N/A

1.4        Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
Policy Area 1 - Tax System
9.      The policy goal was to improve the tax system in order to finance the Government’s
strategic social priorities in the medium term. The Government planned a series of measures
to gradually reinforce both tax policy and tax administration. Immediate measures focused on
continuing efforts to improve tax administration and correcting distortions in existing taxes,
specifically the agricultural income tax (IMAGRO) and Value-added Tax (VAT). Medium-term
focus was placed on the implementation of the personal income tax (IPR), adjusting the rates of
excise taxes on tobacco and alcohol products, and continuing to strengthen the tax administration.
1
    The Key Outcome Indicators were also identified as Medium Term Outcomes in the Policy Matrix.
                                                        3
Policy Area 2 - Public Sector Financial Control
Internal financial control
10.     The policy goal was to improve the effectiveness of the Central Administration’s
internal financial control. Given the ineffectiveness of internal control, the reform aimed to
significantly improve accountability and to ensure that funds were used for their intended
purposes. Three main lines of action were targeted for the Central Administration over the
medium term: (i) expansion of financial management information systems to all spending units;
(ii) implementation of a standardized internal control framework throughout all spending units in
line with international practices to ensure the effectiveness, professionalism and independence of
the internal audit function; and (iii) improvement and strengthening of the control environment
through further professionalization and harmonization of financial administration units (UAFs)
and spending units.

State-owned Enterprises (SOEs)
11.     The policy goal was to establish the Government’s oversight of SOEs and improve
their governance. Given the SOEs’ poor service delivery performance, their lack of financial
and managerial transparency, and the ineffective institutional settings for managing this
substantial proportion of public expenditures, the Government’s medium-term goal was to
establish a new institutional framework to ensure: (i) adequate ownership and supervision of
SOEs; (ii) effective control of the execution of objectives and specific goals associated to an
action plan, agreed which each enterprise; and (iii) transparent SOE reporting of financial
management, business planning, and investment.

Policy Area 3 –- Expenditure Management
12.     The policy goal was to strengthen social and capital expenditures as critical
priorities in the anti-cyclical measures against the crisis. The intention was to increase and
safeguard those social and capital expenditures which were associated with a significant stimulus
impact and pro-poor orientation, while gradually improving the allocation and execution of these
expenditures in the medium term. Social and capital expenditures in Paraguay were low by
regional standards and chronic budget under-execution negatively impacted the performance of
public service delivery. The need to overcome this challenge was seen as especially critical in the
context of the 2008 international economic crisis.

Policy Area 4 –- Human Resources Management
13.     The policy goal was to strengthen and implement the institutional framework for
human resource management. Focus was placed on establishing a more meritocratic and
professional civil service. The main short-term actions were linked to strengthening the Public
Administration Secretariat (Secretaría de la Función Pública - SFP). Medium-term objectives
included reform of the current Civil Service Law (No. 1626/00) and the introduction of a civil
service based on a merit-based career system.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
N/A




                                                4
1.6 Other significant changes

14.    Originally conceived as the first in a series of three operations, PDPL1 supported
fiscal management and public sector reforms. The series, under the FY09-FY13 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS), was to be executed sequentially from FY09 to FY11, with a tentative
envelope of US$100 million for PDPL1, followed by two operations of US$50 million each—i.e.,
PDPL2 and 3—accounting for nearly 40 percent of the indicative CPS envelope. The time taken
to complete policy changes and actions and related triggers for PDPL 2 exceeded the maximum
period allowed between PDPL operations; thus, PDPL 2 and 3 were cancelled. Despite this,
PDPL1 conditions have been met; a significant proportion of triggers for PDPL2 and 3 have
been fulfilled;2 programmatic medium-term outcomes have been largely achieved; and a self-
standing DPL that builds upon the series of PDPL is currently under preparation.

15.      The delays in completing PDPL2 triggers and the resulting formal cancelation of
PDPL2 and 3 are attributable to both the program strategy and implementation
challenges:
 The Program was built upon an ambitious strategy. Both the Government and the Bank
    decided to adopt an ambitious strategy for the design of the program, particularly for the
    fulfillment of the ambitious triggers of PDPL2 in the area of SOEs, with a view to incentivize
    outcome achievements and mitigate risks of reform fatigue and institutional constraints. The
    intention of both the Government and the Bank was to generate an effective impact on the
    results of this budget assistance program.
 Actual delays for PDPL2 were attributable to two SOE related triggers that could not
    be fulfilled before 2011. On the one hand, the Government experienced resistance against
    the regular publication of independent financial audits of SOEs. On the other, it needed to
    build a strong consensus within the executive to consider the relevance of adopting a law
    defining the new institutional framework before submitting it to Congress.
 In absolute terms, the duration of the SOE oversight reform has been reasonably short.
    As a comparison, the introduction of similar SOE oversight reforms in France and the United
    Kingdom took two and four years respectively. 3 In Ukraine, after five years of reform, there
    seems to be no effective government coordinating agency for SOE oversight.4
 Retrospectively this approach worked and a challenging reform of SOE oversight was
    accomplished in a relatively short period of time. It is likely that with a less ambitious
    matrix (in terms of time), the push for reform would have faded after some progress, and
    significant outcomes in SOEs oversight would not have been achieved.
 Reform delays are also attributable to Paraguay’s structural governance constraints.
    The legislative branch has a strong role within Paraguay’s power structure, including
    attributions more usually held by the Executive. The scope of legislative powers,
    compounded with party fragmentation in Congress significantly undermined overall
    Government effectiveness, especially given the Executive’s ability to embark on reform
    initiatives. Therefore, submitting new legislation required building strong consensus.
 Finally, given the 2010 impressive economic recovery, the Government preferred to
    delay the PDPL as a counter-cyclical fiscal measure. Paraguay’s economy grew at an
    impressive rate of 15 percent in 2010, and once most PDPL2 triggers had been fulfilled (at
2
  See Annex 8 of the present ICR.
3
  OECD (2005). Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises: A Survey of OECD Countries.
4
  Bank source.
                                                    5
      the end of 2010), the Government decided to adapt the planning of budget assistance to the
      new economic conditions.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

                                                        Expected Release
      PDPL1 (Tranche 1)            Amount                                          Actual Release Date    Release
                                                             Date
        Single Tranche            US$100 million         August 26, 2009              August 26, 2009     Regular
                                                    PDPL1/Tranche 1
                     List of conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                            Status
 1.    Government has derogated the provision that allowed big landowners to use what they paid for
                                                                                                           Met
       VAT as fiscal credit against the agricultural income tax.
 2.    Government has adopted decree to designate exporters and large businesses as withholding
                                                                                                           Met
       agents of the VAT.
 3.    Government has (i) issued a decree to upgrade the Office of the Executive’s Internal Auditor
       (AGPE) to ministerial level, and to give AGPE the authority to establish a standard internal
       control model (MECIP) also to determine the criteria for the selection of internal auditors         Met
       throughout the Central Administration; and (ii) adopted the MECIP as the internal control model
       to be used by all public sector entities.
 4.    Government has issued a decree to establish a Council for State-owned Enterprises (CEP) to
       ensure, inter alia, (i) public sector oversight of SOEs, and (ii) the definition of a Government    Met
       policy for SOE reform.
 5.    Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Industry and Trade, and the State Attorney’s Office
       have signed an inter-institutional agreement, defining strategic areas to improve the corporate     Met
       governance structure of SOEs.
 6.    Ministry of Finance maintains, in the 2009 Financial Plan, the increased proportion of social
       spending (including for social safety net programs) over total Central Administration
                                                                                                           Met
       expenditures mandated in the 2009 budget (as compared to the 2008 budget), focusing on
       financing social programs that have proven efficient and equitable.

16.     The Government has met all the conditions for PDPL1 as described in the Program
Document. Project implementation and disbursement took place smoothly and without any
major issues. Those conditions are:
 The Government has derogated the provision that allowed big landowners to use what
    they paid for VAT as fiscal credit against the agricultural income tax. This has
    eliminated significant distortions in the tax system caused by VAT credits for large land
    owners. In addition, a more technically robust Under-Secretariat of State Taxes (SET) has
    implemented a series of measures, including tightened fiscal controls and more extensive tax
    retention mechanisms, that have effectively helped reduce tax evasion and non-compliance.
 Using Decree 1164 (2008), the Government has designated exporters and large
    businesses as withholding agents of the VAT. This has significantly strengthened the tax
    administration by increasing the number of withholding agents for VAT from 98 to 754
    between 2008 and 2011, in particular in areas where tax evasion is most rampant, and
    enhancing SET’s detection of fraud and tax non-compliance.
 The Government has undertaken a series of actions to develop an internal control
    system in Paraguay. The Office of the Executive’s Internal Auditor (AGPE) was upgraded
    through a decree to ministerial level to give it the authority to establish a standard internal
    control model and to determine the criteria for the selection of internal auditors throughout
                                                          6
    the Central Administration. Consequently, the AGPE has adopted the internal control model
    MECIP (Modelo Estándar de Control Interno para las Entidades Públicas del Paraguay) as
    the model to be used by all public sector entities and sustained progress is being made toward
    its implementation at the institutional level.
   The Government has established an effective institutional framework for oversight of
    SOEs. This was achieved by issuing a decree to establish a Council for State-owned
    Enterprises (CEP) to ensure public sector oversight of SOEs. Some of the specific outcomes
    include annual external audits of SOEs and their publication, which constitutes a significant
    step toward enhanced transparency and accountability. This, together with the
    implementation and ongoing monitoring of results-based management contracts, is expected
    to bring about improvements in the SOEs’ financial performance and service delivery over
    the medium and long term. There are already some indications of these improvements,
    including significant reductions in current expenditures in the state oil company,
    PETROPAR, and an increase in capital expenditures as a proportion of total expenditure in
    the state-owned electricity company, ANDE.
   The Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Industry and Trade, and the State
    Attorney’s Office have defined strategic priorities for SOE corporate Governance. This
    was achieved by signing an inter-institutional agreement defining those strategic priorities.
   The Ministry of Finance has kept the increased proportion of social spending (including
    for social safety net programs) over total Central Administration expenditures in the
    2009 Financial Plan. This spending was mandated in the 2009 budget (as compared to the
    2008 budget). Social expenditures, specifically education, health, housing, social promotion
    and protection, increased both in absolute terms and as a proportion of total expenditures
    during the 2008-2010 period with respect to the 2006-2007 average. The 25 percent increase
    in 2009 is particularly noteworthy, as it helped contain the impact of the financial crisis.

17.     In 2010, while preparing PDPL2, the Government fulfilled a significant proportion
of triggers for PDPL2 and PDPL3. In November 2009, after the execution of PDPL1, the
preparation of PDPL2 was initiated in parallel with the implementation of a Bank-funded Non-
Lending Technical Assistance (NLTA) and a Trust Fund Project, both supporting the
Government Action Plan. These Technical Assistance activities and the sequencing framework
provided by the PDPL Matrix contributed to fulfilling a significant proportion of Triggers for
PDPL2 and PDPL3, as shown in Annex 8. This provided clear impetus for building-up a
consensus around the main priorities for the reform of the framework for oversight of SOEs, and
for overcoming resistance to enhanced transparency of SOEs’ financial statements. However,
given that the time to fulfill these triggers exceeded the maximum period allowed between PDPL
operations, PDPL2 and PDPL3 were cancelled and a self-standing DPL that builds upon the
series of PDPL is currently under preparation.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

18.      Several factors affected implementation, in addition to those identified during
appraisal. Some of the risks, including the prevalent international financial crisis, the
fragmentation of the Government’s political alliance, weak technical capacity, and poor inter-
institutional coordination, were adequately envisioned at appraisal and effectively mitigated.
Other factors affecting implementation, including those causing the delays in PDPL2 and PDPL3,
are described below:
                                                7
 Calculated risk regarding the scope of SOE reforms: It is important to point out that the
  delays and eventual cancellation of the PDPL2 and 3 were the result of a strategic decision
  taken by the Bank and the Ministry of Finance to push for ambitious reforms in the SOE
  sector. It was mutually agreed to link SOE-related policy changes to PDPL2 to help maintain
  the momentum toward reform and enhance the visibility of the reforms. While this decision
  had a positive impact in terms of the implementation of these policies, it generated delays in
  the implementation of PDPL2 beyond the maximum period allowed between DPL operations.
 Need to build consensus over public sector priorities and reform strategy in tax systems
  and administration and internal control: Project preparation built upon the extensive sector
  work conducted by the Bank and other donors. This sector work, in turn, helped build
  consensus for the priorities for public sector reform. In addition, the Bank worked closely
  with the outgoing authorities in the Ministry of Finance to jointly identify the main challenges
  ahead, and Bank Policy Notes were prepared for the incoming administration. The Bank and
  the Government also organized grant-financed activities and workshops aimed at generating
  legislative and public opinion consensus around the need for reform. As a result of consensus
  building and the sustained reform efforts that had been in place for over a decade, reforms
  related to tax administration and internal financial controls exhibited significant maturity.
 As indicated in Section 1.6 (Other significant Changes) time to reform SOE oversight
  was longer than formally foreseen by the Program design: SOEs in the Paraguayan
  economy account for roughly 10 percent of GDP or 30 percent of country public expenditure.
  SOEs also play a critical role in the provision of basic services, including electricity, water
  and gas distribution. Given their poor service delivery performance, their lack of financial and
  managerial transparency, and the ineffective institutional settings for managing the substantial
  share of SOE public expenditures, the Government acknowledged the need to enhance
  oversight of their performance. However, the development of an adequate SOE oversight
  framework in such an institutional context was complex and required capacity building;
  implementation of institutional mechanisms and decision-making processes between the SOE
  Council and the Directorate of SOE Monitoring. The implementation of this reform also faced
  not unexpected resistance from SOEs that had previously benefited from significant
  discretionary management practices, coming from the lack of effective state oversight, and
  transparency mechanisms – such as the publication of audited financial statements. For
  example, PETROPAR, the largest and most powerful SOE, posed resistance to having its
  financial statements externally audited. At the same time, the Government focused on
  ensuring the sustainability of the newly established institutional framework for SOE oversight
  through the development of a supporting legal framework. However, the consensus-building
  process around the new legislation took longer than planned.
 Over-ambitious civil service reform: In contrast with the other areas of reform, the civil
  service reforms envisioned under the PDPL program proved to be highly challenging and
  over-ambitious in a political sense. In practice, the PDPL was designed to introduce
  substantive civil service reform initiatives during the phases of PDPL2 and 3 which were
  cancelled. Consequently, despite the efforts of the SFP to increase the professionalization of
  the civil service and the significant progress made in terms of the number of merit-based
  promotions and recruitments, these are still not obligatory. Challenges such as these reveal the
  difficulty of coordinating inter-ministerial policies in the context of Paraguay’s governance
  and as such, reforms to the civil service are still pending and any achievements made under
  this operation could be easily reversed.

                                                8
 Strong sense of Government ownership: The ownership of the project on the part of the
  Ministry of Finance led directly to the achievement of PDOs; fostered the country’s dialog on
  development priorities; and made it possible to adapt to changes in internal and external
  factors that were affecting the program’s implementation.
 Sustained engagement on the part of the Bank in Paraguay: As in most countries,
  Paraguay’s path toward reform has been long and uneven. Some pieces of legislation that are
  the cornerstone of the reform process were approved a decade ago, including the Financial
  Administration Law (1999) and the Tax Reform Act (2004). Likewise, the reforms supported
  under the 2003 Economic Recovery Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 7210-PA) and the 2005
  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 7187-PA) provided the foundation for reforms
  supported under DPL I. Although momentum for reform subsided during the late 2000s, the
  Bank continued its engagement with Paraguay’s Ministry of Finance through fiduciary
  assessments and other non-operational tasks. This sustained engagement made it possible for
  the Bank to respond quickly and effectively to the new administration’s request for support of
  its reform program under PDPL1.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

                                       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
Overall, the DPL program benefited from a strong M&E system, with clearly defined triggers for PDPL3&4 and a
robust set of medium-term outcomes (Key Outcome Indicators). Only three Key Outcome Indicators exhibited
some limitations:
 The number of Tekoporá beneficiaries was not subject to external verification;
 Two tax indicators—i.e., reductions in IMAGRO credits and the number of VAT retention agents—were
  expressed in terms of their estimated impact as a percentage of GDP. A more objective definition would have
  been preferable.
 The percentage of recruitments and promotions that were conducted using merit-based criteria could not be
  determined, as centralized data on the total number of recruitments and promotions does not exist.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation
The Bank regularly monitored progress under the PDPL series through periodic CPS implementation reviews and
Bank supervision missions. The Ministry of Finance, the main counterpart agency for the loan, provided effective
overall monitoring and evaluation of the loan and collected the data needed to assess implementation progress from
agreed sources.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization
The M&E system proved useful as a basic pulse-taking tool to assess progress toward implementation of both the
PDPL series as well as the Government’s Plan.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)
19.     A free-standing DPL focusing on Public Sector Reforms is currently being prepared.
This new operation will build on the achievements of the most successful policy areas of the
PDPL series. However, there are significant differences between the two operations. On the one
hand, Paraguay experienced economic improvements subsequent to the international crisis. This
has allowed the Government to concentrate more on public sector reforms while the PDPL series
was aimed at both public sector reforms and equitable fiscal management of the crisis. On the
other hand, the Government is more pragmatic vis-a-vis inter-ministerial coordination, and is
more strategic in selecting a limited number of policy areas with more effective results and
higher impact.
                                                        9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

20.     The objectives of the PDPL series continue to be consistent with those of the
Government as well as the Bank. Specifically:
 PDPL1 directly supported the priorities outlined by the Government in its Strategic
    Economic and Social Plan, which is still the roadmap for the Lugo administration. PDPL1
    also supported the Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan, which was effective in providing the
    fiscal room necessary to pursue the Government’s Plan.
 The PDPL series constituted the centerpiece of the 2009-2013 Country Partnership Strategy
    (CPS). The three cross-cutting themes addressed by the CPS program–i.e., governance,
    poverty reduction, and equitable growth—received support under the PDPL series and still
    remain key country priorities in 2011.
 The PDPL series was grounded in extensive sector work, which helped ensure its relevance.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

21.     PDPL1 has largely achieved its PDO and medium-term outcomes in three of the
four policy areas it supported. In Policy Area 1, it has contributed to: i) improving revenue
collection and the equity of the tax system. In Policy Area 2, the operation has contributed to: i)
improving the effectiveness of the Central Administration’s internal and financial control; and ii)
strengthening the oversight of SOEs to ensure their sound and transparent financial management.
In Policy Area 3, the operation contributed to protecting budgetary allocations for social and
capital expenditures during the financial crisis, while marginally enhancing their overall
efficiency and equity. While some progress was made in the professionalization of the civil
service under Policy Area 4, the task ahead in this arena remains considerable.

22.    The level of achievement of the PDPL1 is particularly noteworthy considering that
the medium-term outcomes were programmed for 2011-2013, taking into consideration the
implementation of the PDPL2 and 3. As noted earlier, these operations were eventually
canceled due to delays in the implementation of the reforms related to enhanced SOE oversight
and a decision on the part of the Government to focus more narrowly on a limited number of
high-impact policy areas under the orbit of the Ministry of Finance within a separate self-
standing DPL operation. However, their cancellation did not preclude the implementation of the
core programmed reforms—albeit with some delays in the case of SOE oversight. As a result,
medium-term outcome indicators for the programmatic series have been largely achieved.

Policy Area 1 - Tax System
PDO 1 – To improve revenue collection and the equity of the tax system
Rating: Satisfactory

23.   The Government has continued to move toward a more efficient and effective tax
administration and a more equitable tax system, a process that was set in motion in the

                                                10
early 2000s. Significant distortions in the tax system have been eliminated, such as VAT credits
for large land owners. In addition, a more technically robust Under-Secretariat of State Taxes
(SET), has implemented a series of measures, including tightened fiscal controls and more
extensive tax retention mechanisms, that have effectively helped reduce tax evasion and non-
compliance. The successful implementation of these measures resulted in a remarkable increase
in tax collections, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of GDP, even during the financial
crisis. All the Key Outcome Indicators associated with this PDO have been largely achieved or
exceeded (see Annex 7 – Policy Matrix).

Policy Framework
24.    The tax system experienced important improvements over the last decade. First, the
Administrative Reorganization and Fiscal Adjustment Law, which was approved in 2004, set the
stage for important changes in Paraguay’s tax system, including the adoption of the Personal
Income Tax (IPR), and a more effective tax administration. In 2006, the Under-Secretariat of
State Taxes (SET) initiated aggressive modernization of its tax administration system, including
process re-engineering; the design and implementation of a new information management
system; organizational restructuring and human resources strengthening.

25.     As part of the reform program supported under PDPL1, the Government’s goal was
to continue to gradually improve revenue collection and the equity of the tax system. An
important change was the introduction of modifications to the existing tax system to eliminate
distortions, such as those exceptions which allowed big landowners to deduct Value Added Tax
(VAT) payments from the agricultural income tax (IMAGRO) and making the IRP permanent.
Although the latter had been introduced by law in 2004, its implementation was postponed by
Congress. Another significant improvement was the strengthening of the tax administration by
increasing the number of withholding agents for VAT, focusing on large taxpayers—mainly
exporters— and enhancing SET’s detection of fraud and tax non-compliance.

Major Actions Implemented
26.     In 2008, Decree 238 contributed to the reduction of tax distortion. It eliminated the
exception, which allowed owners of large real estate properties to treat money paid in
consideration of VAT for goods and services acquired to be used in connection with the
agricultural activity of the relevant property as a deductible expenditure from their agricultural
income tax. Conversely, the permanent adoption of the IRP is still pending, as its adoption
continues to be postponed by Congress.

27.    Tax administration has been strengthened through institution-building measures,
the adoption of decrees expanding their control capacity, and enhanced enforcement. First,
SET’s institutional capacity has been substantially strengthened, as both budgetary and personnel
resources have been assigned to the SET to endow it with the institutional and technical capacity
needed for an efficient and effective tax administration. Second, Decree 1164 (2008) designated
exporters and other large businesses as VAT withholding agents. As a result, the number VAT
withholding agents increased from 98 to 754 between 2008 and 2011, amply exceeding the 144
that were originally anticipated. Third, Article 194 from Law N° 2421 (2004) was implemented,
which requires that individuals present a Tax Compliance Certificate to apply for passports,
mortgages, purchase of vehicles, etc. The number of certificates issued increased from zero in
2008 to 122,000 and 280,000 in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Fourth, SET has strengthened its
                                               11
focus on detection of tax fraud and non-compliance. This is illustrated, for example, in the
increased number of large taxpayers subject to audits and internal controls, which quadrupled
from 20 to 81 between 2008 and 2010. Finally, substantial efforts have been made on the part of
both the SET and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to increase monitoring of ‘maquila’
industries by adopting enhanced reporting instruments (i.e., Form 107) and also by implementing
more intense internal controls and verifications, which increased from zero to 49 maquila
internal controls between 2008 and 2010.
                      Table1: Summary of Medium-Term Outcomes for Tax System
  Policy Area 1. Tax System
                                                                                               Target Value
                                                                2008       2009       2010
                                                                                                 (PDPL)
  Major Actions Implemented
  Number of internal controls for ‘maquila’ industries             0       40        49
  Number of audits targeting large taxpayers                       20      40        81 (*)
  Number of VAT withholding agents                                 98      572       754       40
  Number of Tax Compliance Certificates issues                     0       122,169   280,105
  Achieved Outcomes
  Tax revenues / GDP                                               11.5    12.9      13.5      12.8
  Number of taxpayers                                              471,518 513,998   557,944
  Tax revenues from maquila industries (G$ Millions)               1,226   1,833     3,310
  Tax revenues from maquila industries as a proportion of
                                                                   0.014% 0.02%      0.03%
  overall tax revenues (%)
  VAT revenues collected through withholding agents
  Amount (G$ million)                                              97,034  448,077   707,579
     As % of GDP                                                   0.13%   0.63%     0.84%
  Granted vis-à-vis requested tax credits (G$ millions)            71%     49%       51%
  IMAGRO credits for VAT payments
     Amount (G$ millions)                                          659,969 475,867   356,831
      As % of GDP                                                  0.89%   0.67%     0.42%
  (*) There were a total of 32 audits and 49 internal controls in 2010.
  Note: Shaded cells denote Key Outcome Indicator included in the Policy Matrix.
  Source: SET (2011)

Key Outcomes
28.     The process of tax reform and modernization that began in 2004 has continued to
make sustained progress between 2008 and 2011, as reflected in a significant increase in
both the tax base and tax revenues. Some of the specific outcomes include:
 Tax revenues increased as a proportion of GDP, from 11.5 percent in 2008 to 13.5 percent in
    2010, exceeding the 12.8 percent anticipated for 2012.
 The number of tax payers has increased by over 18 percent between 2008 and 2010.
 Tax collection from ‘maquila’ industries increased by a factor of 2.7 between 2008 and 2010,
    making it one of the fastest growing taxes in Paraguay.
 The increase in the number of VAT withholding agents by a factor of 7.7 between 2008 and
    2010 had an estimated impact on the collection of VAT revenues equivalent to 0.84 percent
    of GDP in 2010, compared to an anticipated target of 0.15 percent.
 The ratio between granted and claimed tax credits (in G$ million) has decreased substantially,
    from 71 percent to 51 percent between 2008 and 2010. In absolute terms, the amount of
    granted tax credits decreased from G$275 million to G$188 during the same period—
    equivalent to a 32 percent reduction.

                                                      12
     As a result of both the elimination of the VAT credits for large landowners and a better
      scrutiny of credit requests, IMAGRO credits decreased by 46 percent between 2008 and 2010,
      a reduction equivalent to 0.47 percent in GDP. Although the reduction is less than originally
      anticipated—i.e., equivalent to 0.75 percent of GDP—it is still noteworthy given that these
      credits had experienced a sustained increase in previous years, reaching a 56.7 percent
      increase between 2006 and 2007.

Policy Area 2 – Public Sector Financial Control
2.1 Internal Financial Control
PDO 2.1 – To improve the effectiveness of the Central Administration’s internal and financial
control
Rating: Satisfactory

29.      Significant progress toward enhancing internal financial controls within the
Executive Branch has been made as a result of two concurrent actions. First, AGPE’s
institutional capacity has been substantially enhanced by strengthening the supporting legal and
normative framework and by substantially increasing its visibility and endowment of financial
and professional resources. Second, a standardized internal control framework -MECIP (Modelo
Estándar de Control Interno para las Entidades Públicas del Paraguay)- has been adopted and
sustained progress is being made toward its implementation at the institutional level.
Improvements in the quality of internal financial control are already evident. This can be seen in
the improvement in the rankings which correspond to internal controls within the 2008-2010
Integrated Financial Assessment (IFA), with respect to the one conducted in 2004-2007. The
Key Outcome Indicators associated to this PDO have been exceeded (see Table 2 and Annex 7).

Policy Framework
30.     The Government pursued the financial control reform process initiated in 2007 in
parallel with the implementation of the PEFA 2008 action plan and the Umbral program.
The main priorities identified to address financial control weaknesses were: (i) the
implementation of a standardized internal control framework; and (ii) the strengthening of the
internal audit function.

Major Actions Implemented
31.     The Government implemented a standardized internal control framework – MECIP.
In 2008, a standard for internal control to be applied to all public entities was approved5. In
parallel, a MECIP Implementation Manual was developed under the Umbral Program with
support from USAID to guide MECIP’s implementation at the institutional level. Given
Government commitment and UMBRAL support, there has been substantial progress in the
implementation of MECIP, which is currently being implemented in 89 out of 100 institutions,
including the five largest line ministries (i.e., the Ministries of Finance, Health, Education,
Agriculture, and Public Works). In 2010, 79 institutions showed progress in the implementation
of MECIP that is acceptable or better than before, compared to only two institutions in 2009.

5
    Through Decree 962


                                                 13
32.     AGPE institutional capacity has also been strengthened. First, the Government has
issued two decrees that provide the legal foundations for strengthening internal controls
throughout the Executive branch. Decree 10883 (2007) upgraded the Office of the Executive’s
Internal Auditor (AGPE) to ministerial level and gave AGPE the authority to: a) establish a
standard for internal control to be applied to all public entities; and (b) determine the criteria for
selection and removal of internal auditors working for the central administration. Second, the
General Comptroller’s Office has been a strong champion for the adoption and implementation
of MECIP. Accordingly, it has issued instructions supporting the implementation of MECIP
throughout the public administration and is auditing the progress being made toward its
implementation at institutional level. Third, the Government Auditing Manual was prepared by
AGPE in coordination with the General Comptroller’s Office to ensure that auditing procedures
were clearly specified and consistent throughout the Executive branch. Finally, AGPE’s
technical and institutional capacity was significantly strengthened as a result of a remarkable
increase in financial resources and professional staff. The AGPE’s visibility was also enhanced
by being given its own building, among other things.

Key Outcomes
33.     Advances in the effectiveness of the Central Administration’s internal and financial
control are already very significant. AGPE has notably expanded its coverage, increasing the
number of institutions being audited from 70 to 100 between 2008 and 2009. At the same time,
the quality of internal control has also increased, as shown by the following achievements:
 On average, the level of implementation of Institutional Audit Units’ work plans increased
    from 74 to 77 percent between 2009 and 2010, and reports are regularly issued and submitted
    to relevant authorities.
 On average, the level of implementation of Self-Improvement Plans aimed to address
    weaknesses detected by internal and external controls increased from 57 to 64.5 percent
    between 2009 and 2010.
 On average, the percentage of recommendations made by internal and external auditors that
    have been successfully addressed increased from 48 to 69.5 percent between 2009 and 2010.
 A comprehensive set of internal procedures (MECIP) has been implemented throughout the
    central administration, which has contributed to strengthening administrative integrity and
    effectiveness.
 No penalties are applied to institutions if they lag behind in the implementation of MECIP or
    their self-improvement plans, or if they fail to address the observations made by internal and
    external auditors. However, the AGPE presents an Internal Control Report to the President of
    Paraguay on a semi-annual basis, who, in turn, discusses it with the heads of the various
    institutions and government entities. This practice has resulted in heightened visibility of
    financial management and increased accountability for compliance with internal controls.

34.     These improvements are reflected in the 2010 PEFA, showing an upward trend in
Paraguay’s internal control and auditing. The overall rating for PI-20 (Effectiveness of
internal controls over non-personnel expenditures) and PI-21 (Effectiveness of the internal audit)
is expected to be C for the ongoing 2010 PEFA assessment6. Significant improvements observed
6
  The 2010 PEFA was funded and implemented by the EU with a joint quality control from EU, World Bank and
IDB. The 2010 draft report has already been reviewed by the three institutions and the PEFA Secretariat. It has been
                                                        14
in the areas of internal control and internal audit have allowed an increase in the PEFA score for
these two indicators from the D+ rating obtained in the same indicators for the 2008 IFA.

                   Table 2: Summary of Medium-Term Outcomes for Internal Financial Control
                                        PDO 2 – Internal Financial Control
                                                                             2008         2009           2010
Main Actions Implemented
Number of institutions that are being controlled by AGPE                      70                          100
Percentage of institutions that are implementing MECIP (%) *                              66%            89%
Percentage of institutions in which progress made in the MECIP
                                                                                           2%            79%
Implementation Plan is acceptable or better *
Achieved Outcomes
Overall percentage of implementation of annual Internal Control Work
                                                                                          74%            77%
Plans at the institutional level
Overall percentage of implementation of the Self-improvement Plans at
                                                                                          57%           64.5%
the institutional level (%)
Percentage of recommendations made by internal and external auditors
                                                                                          48%           69.5%
that have been successfully addressed at the institutional level (%)
PEFA rating for category PI-20 (i.e., effectiveness of internal controls    D+ for                 C anticipated
over non-personnel expenditures)                                           2004-2007                   for 2010
                                                                            D+ for                 C anticipated
PEFA rating for category PI-21 (i.e., effectiveness of the internal audit)
                                                                           2004-2007                   for 2010
Note I: Data marked with an asterisk indicate data corresponding to the second semester; otherwise, it is the
annual average.
Note II: Shaded cells denote Key Outcome Indicators (KOI) included in the Policy Matrix.
Source: AGPE (2011).

35.    Over the last three years, significant strengthening was achieved in public sector
internal control and audit as a result of the acceleration of a long and gradual reform
process. While the establishment of internal control systems was initiated by the 1999 Financial
Administration Law, and the internal audit institutional framework was established by decree in
2001, the Bank’s Integrated Financial Assessment in the mid-2000s still identified internal audit
as one of the main challenges to Paraguay’s Public Financial Management, and the Government
considered this policy area a priority. As a result, from 2008 onwards, and with the support of the
Umbral Program and the PDPL, important efforts were made, resulting in the significant
achievements mentioned above.

36.     Meanwhile, internal control and audit is still facing significant consolidation
challenges. Achieving a control framework and environment that is both effective and efficient
is a complex effort, especially in the institutional context of Paraguay’s Public Sector. In
particular, such “downstream? 7 public financial management reforms in numerous
“deconcentrated? 8 entities requires a sustained reform effort, intensive capacity exercise, and
overall public sector improvement.



submitted to the Government, and is in the process of being published. EU representatives gave their agreement to
the disclosure of the 2010 PEFA rating for indicators PI20 and 21and the text of this footnote.
7
  Downstream Public Financial Management includes cash management, procurement, payroll, internal control,
internal audit, accounting, and external audit.
8
  Deconcentrated dimensions refer to those with engagement of multiple agencies.
                                                       15
2.2 Oversight of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs)
PDO 2.2 – To exert effective oversight of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in order to ensure
sound and transparent financial management
Rating: Satisfactory

37.    The Government succeeded in consolidating SOE oversight under the authority
granted to the CEP and in strengthening the capacity of the SOE Monitoring Unit (UMEP).
As a result, it has significantly improved control over SOE activities and increased the overall
transparency of SOE financial and management performance. Some of the specific outcomes
include annual external audits of SOEs and their publication, which constitutes a significant step
toward enhanced transparency and accountability. This, together with the implementation and
ongoing monitoring of performance-based contracts, is expected to bring about improvements in
the SOEs’ financial performance and service delivery over the medium and long term. There are
already some indications of these improvements, including significant reductions in current
expenditures in the state oil company, PETROPAR, and an increase in capital expenditures as a
proportion of total expenditure in the state-owned electricity company, ANDE. The Key
Outcome Indicators associated with this PDO have been largely achieved (see Table 3 below and
Annex 7 – Policy Matrix).

Policy Framework
38.     The Government’s Plan in relation to State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) was aimed
at reinforcing the ownership function over the SOE portfolio, by: (i) consolidating the
ownership structure of SOEs under a Holding Agency; (ii) increasing the overall transparency of
SOE finances and management by expanding performance contracts; requiring annual external
audits in accordance with international standards; requiring tighter regulation of the financial
relationship between SOEs and the Central Administration; and (iii) creating a consolidated
regulatory agency to be responsible for effective control of the execution of objectives and
specific goals and controlling quality standards underlying the provision of electrical power, oil,
telecommunications, and water.

Major Actions Implemented
39.     Main actions are focused on creating a strong institutional framework for SOE
oversight. This was achieved by reinforcing the technical capacity of supervisory staff, and also
by establishing a sound regulatory framework. In this respect, a new inter-ministerial council
(Consejo de Empresas Públicas - CEP) was established in 2008 to act as the shareholder of the
SOEs on behalf of the Government and to supervise SOEs’ corporate governance as well as their
financial and business management. In addition, a technical body—the UMEP—was created to
improve the CEP’s capacity to undertake effective information analyses and business monitoring
of SOEs. Both budgetary and personnel resources have been assigned to the UMEP to provide it
with the needed institutional and technical capacity. The creation of a consolidated regulatory
agency was the third area of reform planned for the SOE sector. This new agency will eventually
be responsible for effective control of the execution of objectives and specific goals and
controlling quality standards which underly the provision of electrical power, oil,
telecommunication, and water services. However, rather than moving ahead with the creation of
a new agency, the Government has opted instead to focus its efforts on strengthening the existing
regulatory agency, which has jurisdiction over the water and communication sectors.

                                                16
40.     Other actions have revolved around the achievement of a consensus regarding SOE
oversight reform, and the subsequent consolidation of its legal framework. On one hand, the
Government has made significant efforts to build a consensus for SOE reform and has obtained
an inter-ministerial agreement between CEP members, which specifies the main objectives of the
reform. Meanwhile, the UMEP has carried out an intense communication campaign to build a
consensus for SOE reform strategy across a wide array of stakeholders, both public and within
civil society. On the other hand, a law has been submitted to Congress to permanently include
the CEP and the UMEP into the government’s structure and to clarify SOE reporting lines within
this Agency. This law has been approved by the House of Representatives and has yet to be
approved by the Senate (i.e., so far, it has obtained “media sanction?). The UMEP has played an
active role in promoting the new law in Congress. Until the supporting legal framework is in
place, the CEP has signed a cooperation agreement with the General Comptroller’s Office to
ensure that the SOEs provide CEP with financial and performance information on a regular basis.

Key Outcomes
41.     The Government has succeeded in creating an institutional framework to oversee
the performance and financial soundness of State-Owned Enterprises. Main achievements
are:
 Results-based management contracts: The CEP has subscribed annual performance
    contracts with the five larger SOEs, accounting for over 80 percent of overall SOE
    expenditures in 2010. These contracts specify well-defined quarterly performance targets in
    terms of financial performance, overall management, and service delivery; and their
    achievement is regularly monitored by the UMEP. While no penalties are applied to SOEs if
    targets are not met, the UMEP presents an SOE Performance Report to the President of
    Paraguay on a quarterly basis, who, in turn, holds a meeting with SOE Presidents to discuss
    the performance of each SOE. This practice has resulted in heightened visibility of SOE
    performance and increased accountability for SOE management.
 Enhanced rationality in budgetary allocations for SOEs: The UMEP issues a formal
    opinion regarding the allocation of budgetary resources to SOEs at the time of budget
    preparation and in the case of budget modifications.
 Enhanced transparency of SOEs’ financial management: The UMEP receives monthly
    financial reports from SOEs. Audited financial statements are now regularly published for
    eight of the nine SOEs, which accounted for 99 percent of overall SOE expenditure in 2009.
    In 2009 and 2010, financial audits were conducted in accordance with the Terms of
    Reference prepared by the UMEP. In 2012, financial audits will be financed by external
    resources to ensure even further independence.
 Outstanding debt in favor of SOEs: There has been substantial progress toward the
    repayment of outstanding debt of government units within the central administration for basic
    services provided by SOEs (i.e., water, electricity and phone services). The UMEP has
    played a key role by conducting an inventory of arrears and validating them with central
    government units, promoting negotiations between the parties, as well as identifying factors
    that impeded the on-time payment and developing mechanisms for repayment. As a result,
    the stock of pending arrears has decreased from US$106 to US$91 million between 2009 and
    2011 and is expected to be fully paid off by 2014. In addition, provisions were included in
    the 2011 Budget Law to ensure regular payment to SOEs, resulting in roughly 87 percent
    compliance in 2010, compared to only 23 percent in 2008.
                                               17
                         Table 3: Summary of Medium-Term Outcomes for SOE Oversight
                                PDO 2.2 – State-Owned Enterprises
                                                                                                        Target Value
                                                                2008         2009           2010
                                                                                                          (PDPL)
Main Actions Implemented
Total number of SOEs                                           9            9              9
Number of SOEs with performance agreements (Pas)                            4              5
Percentage of expenditures of SOEs with PAs relative
                                                                         95.1%           95.4%
to overall SOE expenditure
Achieved Outcomes
Number of SOEs with published audited financial
                                                               8            8             4 (1)
statements (*)
Percentage of expenditures of SOEs with published
                                                              99%         99%            85.5%              100%
annual audits relative to overall SOE expenditure
Outstanding arrears from government units for unpaid
basic services provided by SOEs—i.e., water,                 105.8        107.9          90.9(2)
electricity and telephone (US$ million)
Payment of basic services (i.e., executed versus
                                                              23%         33%          70 – 80%
budgeted expenditures for basic services)
PETROPAR’s current expenditures (G$ million)                 4,209        3,899          3,223              3,422
ANDE’s share of capital expenditure over total
                                                             17.0%       20.1%           27.5%               20%
expenditure increased
(*) http://www.hacienda.gov.py/web-sseei_v1/index.php?c=322
(1)
    Four more audits are expected to be published shortly; the AGPE is responsible for auditing the
remaining SOE—i.e., FEPASA, which is being liquidated.
(2)
    The data for 2008 and 2009 were provided by the SOEs. Data for 2010 were certified and
validated through a consultant firm hired by the UMEP.
Note: Shaded cells denote Key Outcome Indicators included in the Policy Matrix.
Source: UMEP (2011)


Policy Area 3 – Expenditure Management: Social and Capital Expenditures.
PDO 3 – Improving the Efficiency and Equity of Social and Capital Expenditures
Rating: Satisfactory

42.     The Key Outcome Indicators associated with this PDO are considered to have been
largely achieved. They were linked to the impact of the Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan, which
was successfully implemented in a relatively short period of time. Specifically, the measurement
of these outcome indicators should take into consideration that the anticipated targets—i.e.,
number of beneficiaries of the Tekoporá program and percentage of the paved road network
receiving maintenance—were defined for a period, which included an additional year of
implementation (see Tables 4 and 5 below and Annex 7).

Policy Framework
43.    In 2009, in light of the deterioration of the economy, the Government implemented
an anti-crisis plan. The plan consisted of a series of monetary and fiscal policies, among which
a fiscal expansion to safeguard priority social and investment spending programs was
envisioned. In this respect, and in line with IMF recommendations,9 the Government prepared a


9
    Blanchard et alt. (2008). “Fiscal Policy for the Crisis?, IMF Staff Position Notes, SPN/08/01. December 29, 2008.
                                                           18
fiscal stimulus of about 3 percentage points of GDP in 2009,10 with the support of IFIs, and with
an emphasis on maintenance spending and conditioned cash transfers, as recommended.

44.      The particular component of this anti-crisis plan related to safeguarding social and
capital expenditures was supported by IFIs budget assistance and policy actions with short-
term impact. The budget assistance aspect was designed with IFIs in order to mitigate the risk
of fiscal deficit and support anti-cyclical measures. For both social and capital expenditure, the
intention of the Government was to maintain and expand the proportion of expenditures in these
budget categories, while marginally improving the implementation of these social and
infrastructure programs. As a result of these measures, the social program Tekoporá and 13 other
priority social programs were protected and their coverage of the poor population was expanded.
With regard to capital expenditure, the percentage of paved roads receiving periodic maintenance
increased from 25 to 45 percent between 2008 and 2010, mitigating the economic impact of the
crisis.11

Major Actions Implemented in Social Expenditure
45.     Budget allocations for the social sectors were effectively safeguarded for 2009 and
most of 2010 to contain the impact of the financial crisis. Social expenditures (specifically:
education, health, housing, social promotion and social protection) increased in both absolute
terms and as a proportion of total expenditures during the 2008-2010 period with respect to the
2006-2007 average. The 25 percent increase in 2009 is particularly noteworthy, as it helped
contain the impact of the financial crisis. In addition, 13 priority social programs were protected
in the budget. Social expenditures were therefore maintained and increased during the crisis
period, as envisioned by the Government plan. Specifically, social expenditures accounted for
50.8 percent of the overall executed budget during the crisis (2008-2010 average), compared to
47.8 percent during the pre-crisis period (2006-2007).

46.     The strengthening of the technical and institutional capacity of the Social Cabinet
was a parallel priority. It is made up of 24 institutions, including line ministries, bi-national
entities, and secretariats of the Presidency, so that it can effectively fulfill its policy making and
coordination roles in relation to social programs. Finally, the Social Economic Unit was created
within the Ministry of Finance to support social sector institutions in the design and evaluation of
social programs.

Major Actions Implemented in Capital Expenditure
47.    The PDPL1 Policy Matrix also focused on protecting capital expenditure
investment, complementing efforts being done under the Bank’s Road Maintenance
Project. The main actions were centered around ensuring that budget allocations for the Ministry

10
    IMF Assessment Letter to the World Bank: March 31, 2009.
11
    The World Bank produced analytical evidence comparing the effectiveness of different anti-cyclical responses to
the crisis, suggesting road maintenance as one of the most effective policy actions. In this respect, improving the
maintenance of the country’s road infrastructure was an important priority as road maintenance has been proven to
(i) be an effective, jobs-generating anti-cyclical response to an economic crisis; (ii) enhance efficiency, as well-
maintained roads foster trade in land-locked countries like Paraguay; and (iii) contribute to the reduction of poverty,
in the case of maintenance of rural roads. See: “Crisis in Latin America: Infrastructure Investment, Employment
and the Expectations of Stimulus,? (with J. Schwartz and G. Dragoiu), Journal of Infrastructure Development. Vol. 1
No. 2, December 2009
                                                          19
of Public Works (MOP) –road maintenance in particular– were effectively safeguarded for 2009
and 2010. The most significant actions to be implemented included:
 Increases of 44 percent between 2008 and 2010 in the programmed budget allocations.
 Increases in programmed budget road maintenance expenditures, both in absolute terms and
    as a proportion of MOP’s overall budget: from 6.6 percent in 2008 to 11.9 and 10.8 percent
    in 2009 and 2010, respectively.
 Tripling of the share of the executed budget for road maintenance from 10 percent in 2008 to
    31.4 percent in 2010.

48.     The MOP also granted six performance-based concession contracts for road
maintenance. This action has been one of the main determinants of improvements in the
execution of the road maintenance budget and the state of maintenance of the paved road
network. The ministry is further developing a sustainable road management strategy, with the
support of the Bank’s Road Maintenance Project. In particular, the MOP is focused on
strengthening strategic planning, road conservation, and budget management within a framework
of fiscal constraints. Finally, the implementation of the above-mentioned performance-based
contracts was a priority. An additional priority was the optimization of the toll system to ensure
financial sustainability of the maintenance efforts.

Key Outcomes in Social Expenditure
49.      Success in expanded coverage of social protection program: The Government
succeeded in accelerating the implementation of its flagship social program—the conditional
cash transfer program Tekoporá:
 Targeting: Beneficiaries were identified using a two-fold approach: i) geographic targeting
    of the 83 poorest districts according to the census (80 rural districts and 3 peri-urban
    districts); and ii) a door-to-door census of 200,000 residents in selected districts that recorded
    physical housing conditions and access to basic services. Although there were initial
    problems with beneficiaries’ registry, Tekoporá program targeting significantly improved.
 Coverage increased by a factor of 6.3 between 2008 and 2010, from roughly 13,700 to
    over 83,000 beneficiaries. It is estimated that 40 percent of households in extreme poverty
    participate in this program. It is important to note, however, that neither the number of
    beneficiaries reported nor their poverty status has been externally verified since no publicly
    available monitoring report is available, and an impact evaluation of the Tekoporá program is
    still pending.
 Preliminary evaluation results indicate that the Tekoporá program achieved a
    measurable impact on school attendance, immunizations, and prenatal care. (See Section
    3.4.a – Poverty Impact).

50.      Impact of the financial crisis on poverty was effectively contained. Poverty indicators
(i.e., % of the population in poverty and extreme poverty) did not show a substantial
deterioration during the 2009 crisis (see Table 4):
 The proportion of the population below the poverty line appeared to have decreased
     from 38 to 35 percent between 2008 and 2009, despite the impact of the international
     financial crisis.
 The proportion of the population in extreme poverty remained stable at roughly 19
     percent during the same period.

                                                 20
              Table 4. Summary of Medium-Term Outcomes for Social Expenditures Management
                                  PDO 3.1 - Social Expenditures Management
                                                               2008                2009    2010
Mayor Actions Implemented
Executed budget for social expenditures (G$ million)           6,190              7,790    8,280
Increase in executed budget for social expenditures
                                                                9.7                25.9     6.3
relative to the previous year (%)
Executed budget for social expenditures as a % of overall
                                                               51.6                50.9    50.1
executed budget
Achieved Outcomes
Number of beneficiaries of Tekoporá social program            13,423                n.a.  83,106
Note: Shaded cells denote Key Outcome Indicators (KOI) included in the Policy Matrix.
Source: Ministry of Finance’s Social Economic Unit (2011).

Key Outcomes in Capital Expenditure
 Government policy has shifted slightly from the construction of new roads to road
   improvement and maintenance. Although the allocation and budget execution for
   maintenance of transport infrastructure has almost doubled during the period 2008-2010, they
   are still below the level needed to avoid a deterioration of the country's road network.
 Furthermore, the Government has contracted 1,555 kilometers of performance-based
   maintenance Contracts on the National Paved Road Network focusing on rehabilitation
   and routine maintenance; these are ongoing contracts that upon successful completion will
   result in substantial improvement of the overall condition of the paved road network.
 The Government has also been investing in low cost stone surfacing of a limited number
   of untreated roads of the primary and rural networks, to provide all-weather access to rural
   communities.
 Earmarked budgetary allocations for road maintenance have been incorporated into
   the 2010 budget, which will facilitate monitoring of maintenance investments by the MEF
   and MOP vis-à-vis new road construction.

            Table 5 - Summary of Medium-Term Outcomes for Capital Expenditures Management
                                                                                            Target Value
                         PDO 3.2 - Capital Expenditures Management
                                                                                              (PDPL)
                                                             2008        2009         2010
Main Actions Implemented
Total programmed budget for MOP (US$ million)               219.8        302.0        317.1
Programmed budget for road maintenance (US$ million)         14.4        36.0         34.2
Programmed budget for road maintenance as a % of total
                                                              6.6        11.9         10.8
MOP budget (%)
Executed budget for road maintenance expenditures
                                                             10.0        24.0         31.4
(US$ million)
Executed budget for road maintenance expenditures as a %
                                                             69.4        66.7         91.8
of programmed budget (%)
Achieved Outcomes
Percentage of the paved road network that receives
                                                              25           35          45       50
periodic maintenance (%)
Note: Shaded cells denote Key Outcome Indicators (KOI) included in the Policy Matrix.
Source: Ministry of Public Works (2011).




                                                  21
Policy Area 4 – Human Resources Management
PDO 5 – To Contribute to the Professionalization of the Civil Service
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
51.     Progress has been made on various fronts toward enhancing the professionalization
of the civil service. One notable result has been the definition of a merit-based methodology for
personnel recruitment, with clear criteria and procedures, followed by a significant number of
recruitments and promotions in which these procedures were applied during the period 2008-
2010. More than 10,000 personnel were recruited and/or promoted using the merit-based criteria
compared to almost no merit-based recruitment before 2008. 12 The application of this
methodology, however, is not still universal but largely voluntary, as enforcement mechanisms
are lacking. Moreover, the lack of a computerized human resources information system makes it
impossible to identify the recruitments and promotions in those institutions choosing not to
report them. Given this lack of information in the total number of recruitments and
promotions, it is not possible to determine achievement of the Key Outcome Indicators
associated to this PDO—i.e., the proportion of recruitments and promotions selected using
merit-based criteria (see Table 6 below and Annex 7 – Policy Matrix).


Policy Framework
52.      The Government’s reform plan included some modest steps in civil service reform
aimed at establishing a more meritocratic and professional civil service. Specifically, the
Government focused on strengthening the Civil Service Secretariat (Secretaría de la Función
Pública – SFP) by developing its institutional and technical capacity and by expanding
interactions with other institutions and stakeholders. To the same end, it attempted to strengthen
its role as the central human resources management agency, by reinforcing its control over new
recruitments and promotions.

Major Actions Implemented
53.    Progress was made toward enhancing the legal framework by regulating sections of
the Public Service Law through a number of new decrees and resolutions, the most important
being a resolution regulating the selection, recruitment and promotion of personnel based on
merit-based criteria (Resolution SFP 50/2008).

54.     Efforts are also being made to enforce merit-based recruitment rules, which lack
effective enforcement mechanisms. In early 2011, the government formally initiated judicial
processes against some congressmen who created new positions by circumventing competitive
processes and by disregarding the HR needs of government agencies. The demands also included
instances in which pay levels for specific public servants were modified during the process of
budget approval.

55.    The development of a Personnel Management Index, which measures basic human
resources management (HRM) functions across government to identify and address capacity
gaps, has been another important initiative. The index methodology and action plans are being
12
  Although the total number of new recruitments in 2008-2010 could not be determined, the achievement of 10,000
new merit-based recruits from a pool of approximately 176,000 central administration staff represent a very
significant proportion.
                                                      22
implemented in several line ministries and government agencies with the purpose of
strengthening their HRM units. Finally, SFP has also worked on building HRM capacity in
Paraguay’s sub-national governments, an agenda previously absent or inconsistently pursued.

56.     Progress is being made to design and implement an automated HRM system—the
so-called Integrated System for the Consolidated Control of the Administrative Career – SICCA.
Among other features, this system, which is planned for 2012, will help prevent the payment of
salaries for positions and promotions filled without following competitive processes led by SFP.

Key Outcomes
57.      The main outcomes in the area of human resources management include:
 Merit-based promotions and recruitment: When the new Government assumed office,
    merit-based recruitment and positions were the exception and no standardized procedures
    existed. Under the new administration, over ten thousand promotions and recruitments have
    been decided through competitive processes following SFP guidelines and methodology and
    supervised by SFP officials in about 30 percent of public sector institutions. It is important to
    point out that, at this stage, conducting merit-based promotions and recruitment is not
    universal but largely voluntary, due to the lack of enforcement mechanisms. SFP estimates
    suggest that merit-based recruitments and promotions might represent close to 40 percent of
    all recruitments and promotions, but it is uncertain since not all agencies inform the SFP.
 Minimum pay: In an effort to enhance the level of professionalization of civil servants, the
    number of public servants earning below the minimum wage was reduced to roughly a third
    between 2008 and 2010, from over 28,000 to roughly 9,000.
 Expanded HR reporting: The number of institutions that regularly report payroll data to the
    SFP more than doubled between 2008 and 2010, from 43 to 97, equivalent to 87 percent of
    all institutions in 2010. However, reporting is still precarious, mainly on paper and of
    unknown quality.
 Enhanced administrative agility: The SFP has decreased its administrative response time, as
    illustrated by the increase in the proportion of resolved administrative processes relative to
    the ones being initiated in a given year, from 65 to 118 percent between 2008 and 2010.

         Table 6: Summary of Medium-Term Outcomes for Human Resources Management
                             PDO 5 – Human Resources Management
                                                                  2008       2009   2010    Target Value
Achieved Outcomes
Number of new recruitments and promotions within the central
                                                                  931        8,353 1,695
administration based on clearly defined merit-based criteria
Percentage of new recruitments and promotions within the
central administration that are based on clearly defined merit-    n.a.       n.a.   n.a.      100%
based criteria
Number of institutions within the central administration that   43 out of          97 out
report human resources (HR) data to the SFP                        111             of 111
Number of staff earning less than the minimum wage               28,047            9,234
Administrative processes resolved as a % of administrative
                                                                  65%              118%
processes initiated
Note: Shaded cells denote Key Outcome Indicators included in the Policy Matrix.
Source: SFP (2011)



                                                   23
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

58.     The operation succeeded in capitalizing on the window of opportunity that opened
with the election of a reform-minded administration. Thus, it has effectively supported the
development and/or implementation of key public sector reforms in Paraguay. Achievements are
particularly noteworthy in relation to oversight of SOE, tax system, and internal financial control.
The main outcomes include: enhanced oversight of SOEs; greater equity and efficiency in the tax
system and a more efficient tax administration; and tighter internal financial controls. Other
outcomes also include some modest steps toward the professionalization of the civil service.

59.     The operation also supported the Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan. This plan was
effective in reducing the impact of the international financial crisis on the economy as a whole
and on the most vulnerable sectors of the population in particular. The plan also contributed to a
stronger management of social and capital expenditures.

60.     The supported actions are part of a sustained, gradual reform effort aimed at
enhancing the transparency, efficiency and service-delivery capacity of the country’s public
sector. These reforms were set in motion in the late 1990s – early 2000s and, although their pace
has been uneven, they have been supported by successive administrations. The continuity of the
reform efforts was put to the test in the last presidential election, which ended the 61 year
political hegemony of the Colorado Party. The incoming authorities not only continued to build
upon the reform efforts of previous administrations but also brought renewed momentum to the
reform process. Thus, the reforms supported under PDPL1 continue to be highly relevant, as
denoted by the Borrower’s request for the Bank’s continuous support under a self-standing DPL
operation that is currently under preparation.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

61.     By helping protect social expenditures during the financial crisis and ensuring their
enhanced efficiency and equity, PDPL1 has had a significant impact on poverty. In
particular, the increase in social and investment spending foreseen for the program period had
significant beneficial impacts on overall poverty and equity by softening the impact of the global
economic crisis on the most vulnerable population groups, while also helping to address
structural issues related to poverty and inequality. The main social program to benefit from a
higher public spending envelope was the conditional cash transfer program Tekoporá. The
program targeted the extreme poor in rural areas. It is estimated that Tekoporá, with roughly
83,000 beneficiaries, covers 40 percent of the country’s population in extreme poverty. Several
Program evaluations since 2006 have consistently suggested that the program has a positive
effect on household food consumption, school attendance and visits to local health centers. In
addition, the increase in household per capita income led to a drop in the incidence of extreme
poverty among beneficiaries by at least 17 percentage points during the project period.




                                                24
b) Institutional change and strengthening

62.    PDPL1 has had a significant impact on institutional strengthening, providing
continuous support to Paraguay’s longstanding reform efforts. Grounded in sound sector
work and building upon key legislation approved during the late 1990s and early 2000s, the
operation helped consolidate and move forward key public sector reforms that focus on the tax
system and administration, and internal financial controls. It also supported the implementation
of an institutional framework to oversee SOEs’ financial performance and service delivery,
which together represent approximately 30 percent of the country’s public expenditure. PDPL1
has also contributed to strengthening the institutional and technical capacity of key government
agencies, including SET, AGPE and UMEP. Capitalizing on the window of opportunity that
opened with the advent of the 2009 financial crisis, PDPL1 provided additional incentives to
enhance social and capital expenditure management.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate to Significant

Factors Affecting the Sustainability of the Project’s Achievements
63.      The sustainability of the achievements under PDPL1 varies significantly across the
supported policy areas, as follows:
 Tax System – Negligible to low risk
    Achievements in tax system and administration under PDPL1 reflect a long-term trend aimed
    at enhancing the efficiency and equity of Paraguay’s tax system and improving tax
    administration. The supporting legislative and normative framework is in place. SET exhibits
    sound technical and institutional capacity.
 Internal Financial Controls – Moderate risk
    Achievements in internal and financial control under PDPL1 reflect a long-term trend aimed
    at enhancing the transparency of Paraguay’s financial administration. There is consensus
    regarding the overall strategy, including among major stakeholders such as the General
    Comptroller’s Office. The supporting legislative and normative framework is in place. AGPE
    exhibits sound technical and institutional capacity. The closure of the Umbral project, which
    is scheduled for October 2011, poses a risk to the continuous implementation of the MECIP
    at the institutional level, as it is currently the main source of financing. Adding budget lines
    that explicitly allocate resources to this purpose within each institution could significantly
    reduce this risk.
 Oversight of State-Owned Enterprises – High risk
    There is no supporting legislative framework in place. The approval of the law, already
    submitted to Congress, to permanently include the CEP and the UMEP into the government’s
    structure and to clarify SOE reporting lines with this Agency is critical. So far, this law has
    been approved only by the House of Representatives and is yet to be approved by the Senate
    (i.e., it has obtained ‘?media sanction?).

                                                25
    Social and Capital Expenditure Management – Moderate risk
    i. In terms of social expenditures, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to
     protecting social spending as part of the overall budget. With the support of the Social Action
     Secretary and the Ministry of Finance’s Social Economic Unit, the Government is working
     toward enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of its social programs.

  ii. Improved road maintenance is a sustainable outcome. With the support of the Bank’s
  Road Maintenance Project, the MOP is developing a sustainable road management strategy.
  In particular, the MOP is focusing on the continuous implementation of performance-based
  contracts, the optimization of the toll system, and the development of the road management
  model. It is expected that these performance-based contracts will result in substantial
  improvement of the overall condition of the paved road network. In addition, there is now a
  budget line in MOP’s budget explicitly designated for road maintenance.
 Human Resources Management – Substantial risk
  Despite the efforts of the SFP, the sustainability of the achievements made so far toward the
  professionalization of the civil service is fragile. At this point, conducting merit-based
  promotions and recruitment is largely voluntary due to the lack of enforcement mechanisms.
  A supportive legal framework is still pending and the political will to undertake broad civil
  service reform seems to be lacking.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

64.     The performance of the Bank in assisting the Borrower to identify, prepare and
appraise the operation is deemed satisfactory. The design of the DPL program benefited from
an in-depth knowledge of Paraguay’s public sector, which, in turn, resulted in more than a
decade of Bank support for the country’s reform efforts through two adjustment operations in the
early 2000s as well as extensive sector work. Although momentum for reform subsided during
the late 2000s, the Bank continued its engagement with Paraguay’s Ministry of Finance through
fiduciary assessments and other non-operational tasks. This sustained engagement made it
possible for the Bank to respond quickly and effectively under PDPL1 to the new
administration’s request for support of its reform program. Management, within both the Country
Management Unit (CMU) and PREM, was closely involved in the operation’s preparation, in
part because the operation assumed a higher profile and acquired additional importance in the
context of the international financial crisis. The Bank team responsible for preparation was
highly dedicated and benefited from an intimate knowledge of the country’s public sector and its
priorities. It worked closely with the former authorities within the Ministry of Finance to identify
a set of key steps needed to further advance the reform process. The resulting diagnosis and plan
of action were summarized in a series of Policy Notes that were later used by the incoming
administration to define its own reform agenda. The outstanding performance of the preparation
team was formally recognized by a Bank’s Regional Vice-Presidential Award in 2009 in
recognition of attention to client ownership as well as responsiveness to country efforts in
dealing with the international economic and financial crisis.

                                                26
b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

65.     The project was well supervised, with regular field missions and in-depth supervision
reports pertaining not just to the implementation of PDPL1 but also to progress made toward
achieving the targets associated with the second operation in the PDPL series. Sector and CMU
managers followed project implementation closely and exhibited great flexibility in
accommodating the needs of the Borrower and the team. A wide array of sector specialists was
included in the supervision missions, contributing valuable expertise and TA in each of the
operation’s policy areas. The stability of the Bank team, which was responsible for both
preparation and supervision, was an added benefit.

c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

66.    Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered satisfactory for the reasons stated above.

Borrower’s Performance

a) Government’s Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

67.     The Government’s strong ownership of the Anti-Crisis Plan, as well as the reforms
supported under PDPL1, was a critical factor determining the success of the operation.
This ownership led directly to the achievement of PDOs, fostered the country’s dialog on
development priorities, and made it possible to adapt to changes in internal and external factors
affecting the program’s implementation.

b) Implementing Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

68.      The Ministry of Finance, with a strong sense of ownership of the reforms, played a
key leadership role in the implementation of PDPL1. The Ministry effectively coordinated the
actions of various government entities participating in the program, some of which were outside
its orbit of authority, by exerting its influence when possible and by adapting to the constraints
posed by the institutional and political environment. In this way, it opted to advance the more
mature areas of reform and proceeded more cautiously in those that met with resistance,
postponing drastic action, such as pursuing approval of controversial legislation, but still taking
important operational steps. The reform strategy adopted in relation to the SOEs provides a good
illustration of this politically savvy approach.
Although satisfactory on average, the performance of the various agencies participating in the
program was generally in line with the overall level of achievement at the sector level. The
performance of SET, UMEP, and AGPE, and the technical capacity and commitment of their
staff deserve particular recognition in the context of PDPL1.


                                                27
c) Justification of Rating for Overall Sub-Borrower’s Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

69.    Overall, the Borrowers’ performance is deemed satisfactory for the reasons stated above.

6. Lessons Learned
Lessons of wide general application
70.    The importance of strong national ownership of the operation is fundamental to the
success of a DPL program. In the case of Paraguay’s PDPL1, this ownership directly led to the
achievement of PDOs, fostered the country’s dialog on development priorities, and made it
possible to adapt to changes in internal and external factors affecting the program’s
implementation.

71.    Coalitions of political support for a DPL program must be carefully assessed before
undertaking ambitious reforms. The careful assessment of the program’s support across a wide
range of constituencies, including NGOs, IFIs, and other stakeholders, conducted during
preparation was critical in helping to correctly gauge political risk.

72.    Both political feasibility and depth of reform must be taken into account for the
DPL series to be successful. Paraguay’s PDPL1 succeeded in striking a balance, as it capitalized
on the window of opportunity that opened with the election of a reform-minded administration
while supporting a reform program that, although ambitious, was feasible given the political
space, maturity of reform, and institutional capacity. In addition, the few legislative changes
included under PDPL I were analyzed together with the Government in terms of the likelihood of
building a consensus around them.

73.     From a technical standpoint, reforms that strengthen small ‘concentrated’ teams
with important leverage provide opportunities for large pay-offs. This was certainly the case
for the reforms focusing on enhancing the oversight of SOEs. Apart from having the needed
political support, their success was largely due to the strengthening of the UMEP: a highly
professional, 20-person government unit leveraging the oversight of 30 percent of the country’s
public expenditure.

74.     Sustained engagement on the part of the Bank is critical to effectively support
reform processes over the medium and long term. As in most countries, Paraguay’s path
toward reform has been long and uneven. Some pieces of legislation that are the cornerstone of
the reform process were approved a decade ago, including the Financial Administration Law
(1999) and the Tax Reform Act (2004). Likewise, the reforms supported under the 2003
Economic Recovery Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 72100-PA) and the 2005 Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 7187-PA) provided the foundation for the reforms supported under
PDPL1. Although momentum for reform subsided during the late 2000s, the Bank continued its
engagement with Paraguay’s Ministry of Finance through fiduciary assessments and other non-
operational tasks. This sustained engagement made it possible for the Bank to respond quickly
and effectively under PDPL1 to the new administration’s request for support of its reform
program.


                                              28
75.    Combining Technical Assistance and DPLs generate mutual leverage for achieving
development objectives. This has been particularly-well illustrated by the reform of the SOE
oversight whereby the PDPL generated both a sequencing framework and a financial incentive to
pursue the reform (even in a difficult context with specific sector resistance to change and a
broader economic crisis), while the technical assistance provided knowledge, exchange of
experience and support to the Government to build consensus, make decision and maintain
consistent drive for the past three years.

76.     Bank policy regarding maximum period allowed between PDPL operations could be
revisited. In the case of the PDPL1, the instrument was successful in supporting the reforms.
However, PDPL2 and 3 had to be formally canceled due to Bank internal policies.

Project-specific lessons
77.     In the context of Paraguay, continuation of medium-term reforms could benefit
from focusing primarily in those areas under the orbit of the Ministry of Finance. Under the
leadership of a reform-minded minister, the Ministry of Finance is actively promoting a well
defined set of reforms that are both technically and politically feasible. Likewise, in a non-crisis
environment, the objective of improving the efficiency and equity of social and capital
expenditures is better suited to sector operations, similar to that currently in place in the transport
sector.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

78.  The Bank agrees with the observations received from the Borrower and has no further
comments.

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                  29
        Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                                      Responsibility/
             Names                            Title                       Unit
                                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Alexandre Arrobbio         Senior Public Sector Spec.                   LCSPS     Task Team Leader
Jasmin Chakeri             Sr Country Economist                         LCSPE     Co Task Team Leader
Mariano Lafuente           Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                    LCSPS     Team member
Federico Guala             Consultant                                   LCSPS     Team member
Andres Pizarro             Consultant                                   SASDI     Team member
Veronica Raffo             Senior Infrastructure Specialist             LCSTR     Team member
Jeffrey James Rinne        Senior Public Sector Spec.                   LCSPS     Team member

Supervision
Alexandre Arrobbio         Senior Public Sector Spec.                   LCSPS     Task Team Leader
Mariela Alvarez            Program Assistant                            LCC7C     Team member
Marcelo Daniel Barg        E T Consultant                               LCC6C     Team member
Jasmin Chakeri             Sr Country Economist                         LCSPE     Co Task Team Leader
Henri Fortin               Head                                         ECCAT     Team member
Federico Guala             Consultant                                   LCSPS     Team member
Mariano Lafuente           Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                    LCSPS     Team member
Fernando Lorenzo Estefan   Consultant                                   LCSPS     Team member
Maria Del Carmen Minoso    Senior Operations Officer                    ECSO1     Team member
Jeffrey James Rinne        Senior Public Sector Spec.                   LCSPS     Team member
Mariangeles Sabella        Sr Counsel                                   LEGLA     Team member
Maria Angelica Vanoli      Temporary                                    LCC7C     Team member

ICR Preparation
Cecilia Zanetta            Consultant                                   LCSPS
William Mayville           Consultant                                   LCSPS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                           Staff Time and Cost
                                                            (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage
                                                                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                      (incl. travel and consultant costs)
Lending (FY 2009)                                43                                 167.37
                           Total:                43                                 167.37
Supervision/ICR
FY2009                                             1                                  5.91
FY2010                                            22                                 83.84
FY2011                                            11                                 65.50
                           Total:                 34                                 155.25




                                               30
       Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
                      N.A.




Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                      N.A.




                       31
         Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The Borrower concurred with the finding of the ICR. The summary of the major
observations submitted to the Bank is as follows:

      i) Under the description of policy area 2, state-owned enterprises, instead of “(ii)
      effective regulatory control over tariffs and technical quality of utility services?, it was
      suggested to read: “(ii) effective control of the execution of objectives and specific goals
      associated to an action plan, agreed which each enterprise.

      ii) Under 2.1 Program Performance, in the section on the institutional framework of
      SOEs, the Borrower clarified, that instead of “performance-based contracts?, results-
      based management contracts were used.

      iii) In section 3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives, under description of
      the policy area 2.2 Oversight of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs), in sub-section on the
      policy framework, under (iii), the Government Plan consisted of “creating a consolidated
      regulatory agency to be responsible for the control of quality standards and controlling
      quality standards underlying the provision of electrical power, oil, telecommunications,
      and water? only, and not as stated for regulating tariffs.

      iv) Similarly, the following paragraph on “Main actions implemented? refers to the
      regulation of tariffs as a task of the UMEP.

      v) In the sub-section of key results in the same chapter, the text refers to Directors of
      SOEs. The correct title is “Presidents?.

      vi) In the same sub-section the third paragraph discusses the transparency of financial
      management, and refers to financial audits to be carried out in 2012. The Borrowers
      suggests adding that the financial audits of two companies with consistency problems in
      their financial statements will be financed with external resources.




         Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
                                       N.A.




                                              32
                                  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

                                              Supporting Documents
Arrobbio, A. and Lafuente, M. (2008), Nota 2: Empleo público y Política Salarial del Estado, Policy Note, World Bank,
     Washington, D.C.
Lafuente, M. (2010), The Challenges of Professionalizing the Public Service and Improving Pay Policy: The Case of
     Paraguay, Manuscript, Washington, D.C.
Secretaría de la Función Pública (2010), Informe de Dos Años de Gestión 2008-2010, Gobierno de Paraguay, Asunción.
World Bank (2008-2011), Documents in Project’s Electronic File, including Loan Agreement, PAD, Aide Memoirs, Back-
     to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports; IRIS, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2009), Paraguay – First Public Sector Programmatic Development Policy Loan, Project Appraisal
     Document. Report No. 47712-PY, 31 March 2009, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2009), Paraguay - Country Partnership Strategy FY09-FY13, Report No. 48087-PY, 7 April 2009,
     Washington, DC.
World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the European Union (2008), Paraguay -
Integrated Fiduciary Assessment, April 2008, Washington DC.
                                     Interviews Conducted during the ICR Mission
Ministry of Finance
Manuel Caballero, Vice-Ministro, de la Sub-Secretaría de Integración Económica
Martha Peña Kieninger, Directora de Política de Endeudamiento
Tax System
Luz Bello, Directora de Planificación y Técnica Tributaria, Sub-Secretaría de Estado Tributación (SET)
Jorge Gaona, Director de Grandes Contribuyentes, SET
Fernando Flecha, Director de Fiscalización Tributaria, SET
Elizabeth Corrales, Depto. de Cooperación y Gestión de Proyectos, SET
María Raquel Ramírez, Consejo Nacional de Industrial Maquiladoras de Exportación, Ministerio de Industria y Comercio
Internal Financial Control
Alberto Cabrera Villalba, Ministro – Auditor General del Poder ejecutivo (AGPE)
William Feltes, Depto. de Estudios - AGPE
Liz Lorena Barreto, Coordinadora MECIP, MH
Luis González, Auditoría Interna, MH
Teresita Baéz, Coordinadora MECIP, Ministerio de Agricultura (MA)
María del Rosario Lobera, Auditoría Interna, MA
Sonia Barrios, Coordinadora MECIP, Ministerio de Salud (MS)
Hipólita Santa Cruz, Auditoría Interna, MS
Víctor Sánchez Laridi, Coordinador MECIP, Ministerio de Educación (ME)
Rosario Araujo, Auditoría Interna, ME
Clara Mope, Coordinadora MECIP, Ministerio de Obras Públicas (MOP)
Jorge Morales, Auditoría Interna, MOP
State-owned Enterprises
Rogelio Cáceres Báez, Director, Unidad de Monitoreo de Empresas Públicas (UMEP)
Patricia González Vallovera, Depto. de Estudio y Planificación, UMEP
 Expenditure Management
Verónica Serafini Geoghegan, Economía Social, Ministry of Finance
Roger Paredes, MOP
Natalia Drozdova, MOP
Jorge Oxilia, MOP
Gustavo Alfonso, MOP
Human Resources Management
José Tomás Sánchez, Director General de Gabinete, Secretaría de la Función Pública


                                                         33
                 Annex 7. Policy Matrix for Paraguay’s First Public Policy Programmatic Development Policy Loan
                Objective / Target                                              Outcome Indicators
                                                                                                                                             Comments
                  2012 - 2013                                      Baseline                             Latest Available
                                                              Policy Area 1 – Tax System
PDO 1 – To improve revenue collection and the equity of the tax system                                                                   Rating: Satisfactory
Tax/GDP ratio increases by at least 0.9% by 2012-   The average tax/GDP ratio was 11.9%
                                                                                               Tax/GDP ratio was 13.5% (2010)                 Exceeded
2013 (i.e., to 12.8% in 2012)                              between 2004 and 2008
                                                                                                Credits on VAT deductions from
                                                                                              IMAGRO have been eliminated for
According to estimates from the State Under-                                                            large landowners.
Secretariat of Taxes – SET, the elimination of         Credits on VAT deductions from
                                                                                                                                          Largely Achieved
credits on VAT deductions from IMAGRO will have         IMAGRO are in place (2008)             IMAGRO credits decreased by 46
an impact equivalent to 0.75% of GDP                                                           percent between 2008 and 2010, a
                                                                                              reduction equivalent to 0.47 in GDP
                                                                                                     between 2008 and 2010.
According to SET estimates, the designation of 114                                            The designation of 754 withholding
                                                    There are 98 VAT withholding agents
VAT withholding agents has had an impact                                                     agents of the VAT has had an impact              Exceeded
                                                             for the VAT (2008)
equivalent to 0.15% of GDP                                                                    equivalent to 0.84% of GDP (2010)
                                                   Policy Area 2 – Public Sector Financial Control
PDO 2.1 – To improve the effectiveness of the Central Administration’s internal financial control                                        Rating: Satisfactory
                                                                                             2010 PEFA rating is expected to be C
2010 PEFA rating is C for PI-20 and PI-21 for 50%    2008 PEFA rating was D+ for PI-20
                                                                                                 for PI-20 and PI-21 the Central              Exceeded
of the ministries                                                  and PI-21
                                                                                               Administration as a whole (2010)
PDO 2.2 – To exert effective oversight of State-Owned Enterprises to ensure sound and transparent financial management                   Rating: Satisfactory
                                                                                             Audited financial statements for eight
                                                                                             of the nine SOEs accounting for 99%
                                                                                               of overall SOE expenditures were
                                                                                                        published in 2009.
                                                     No annual audited financial statements
Annual publication of audited financial statements                                               Four of the nine SOEs have already
                                                     in line with international standards are                                                 Achieved
for each SOE from 2010                                                                          published their 2010 audited financial
                                                               available for SOEs
                                                                                                statements, and three are expected to
                                                                                                      have them published soon

                                                                                                The ninth SOE is audited by AGPE, as
                                                                                                        it is being liquidated.
                                                                            34
                                                                                             Medium-term financial targets are
                                                                                           defined in the framework of the annual
                                                                                              performance contracts subscribed
Definition of medium-term financial targets for       No financial targets are defined for
                                                                                           between the Public Enterprises Council               Achieved
SOEs by the Holding                                                  SOEs
                                                                                               (CEP) and the five largest SOEs,
                                                                                            accounting for 95.4% of overall SOE
                                                                                                    expenditures in 2010
                                                       Policy Area 3 – Expenditure Management
PDO 3 – To improve the efficiency and equity of social capital expenditures                                                                Rating: Satisfactory
                                                                                                The Tekoporá program had an
                                                                                           estimated 83,000 beneficiaries in 2010.

Improvements are verified in the coverage of the                                                   The selection process, which was
social safety net through the increase of beneficiaries   The Tekoporá program has 13,400       based on both geographic selection and
                                                                                                                                            Largely achieved
of the conditional cash transfers from the Tekoporá                beneficiaries                  a door-to-door census, targeted the
program to 100,000 families in extreme poverty                                                   very poor. It is estimated that roughly
                                                                                                40% of households in extreme poverty
                                                                                                    are covered under the program.

The quality of public infrastructure has improved, as
                                                           Only 25% of the network of paved
reflected by the proportion of the paved road                                                    45% of the network of paved roads
                                                          roads received periodic maintenance                                               Partially achieved
network that receives periodic maintenance, which                                               received periodic maintenance (2010)
                                                                         (2008)
has increased to 50% by 2012
                                                         Policy Area 4 – Human Resources Management
PDO 4 – To contribute to the professionalization of the civil service                                                       Rating: Moderate Unsatisfactory
                                                                                               Over 10,000 new recruitments and
                                                                                                promotions were based on clearly
                                                                                             specified merit-based selection criteria
100% of new recruitment is based on the following
                                                                                                     between 2008 and 2010.
criteria: i) written job requirement; ii) publication of
                                                             Merit-based personnel selection
the job advertisement; iii) competitive and                                                                                               Undetermined
                                                                  processes were rare.             Since there is no centralized
transparent criteria of selection; and SFP control of
                                                                                                 information on recruitments and
the recruitment process
                                                                                                  promotions, it is not possible to
                                                                                             determine the proportion selected using
                                                                                                       merit-based criteria.




                                                                               35
             Annex 8. Level of Fulfillment to date of Triggers for PDPL2 and Indicative Medium-Term Actions for PDPL3
        Goals                              Triggers for the Second Programmatic Loan                                            Indicative Medium-Term Actions
                                                                                                                    (Tentative Triggers for the Third Programmatic Loan)
1.1 Improving             SET doubles the number of large taxpayers subject to tax audits (Baseline: 2008=       Establish mandatory IMAGRO withholding mechanisms to
revenue collections        20). Completed                                                                          reduce evasion and strengthen tax collection.
and the equity of the                                                                                             Establish clear criteria for new maquila regime concessions.
tax system
2.1 Improving             Two ministries have established internal control committees, internal control          Three ministries have established internal control committees,
Effectiveness of           norms, and trained staff to implement the MECIP; and their respective internal          internal control norms, and trained staff to implement the
Central                    audit units (AIIs) have the number of employees and competitive hiring processes        MECIP; and their respective internal audit units (AIIs) have the
Administration             required by AGPE. Completed                                                             number of employees and competitive hiring processes required
Internal Financial                                                                                                 by AGPE. Completed
Control
2.2 Exerting effective    A Holding Agency of SOEs is legally established to replace CEP. It has the             The Holding Agency establishes performance evaluation
SOE oversight to           authority to: (i) elaborate SOE corporate governance, including the criteria for        mechanisms, standardized financial management rules and
ensure sound and           appointment and removal of high ranking personnel; (ii) redesign management             financial targets for SOEs. Completed (Performance
transparent financial      evaluation mechanisms; (iii) design a system of investment planning, and (iv)           Agreements)
management.                evaluate the financial situation of each SOE. Partially Completed (Law                 The Ministry of Finance establishes clear rules with respect to
                           submitted to Congress)                                                                  transfers and payments between SOEs and the Central
                          The Holding Agency ensures that, beginning in 2010, all SOEs are subject to             Administration. This includes rules to determine the
                           annual external audits by international audit firms, which are required to be           appropriateness and the actual amount of transfers from SOEs to
                           prepared according to CEP/Holding standards, and published. Completed                   the Treasury; and payments on utility services from the Central
                          A consolidated and independent Regulatory Agency is established. This Agency            Administration to SOEs have been identified and their
                           is in charge of effective control of the execution of objectives and specific goals     regularization has been initiated. Completed
                           associated to an action plan, and controlling quality standards appropriate for the
                           provision of the following services: electrical power, oil, telecom, and water.
3. Improving the          Ministry of Finance safeguards the proportion of social expenditure (including         The execution of the 2010 Financial Plan is consistent with
efficiency and equity      social safety net programs) over total expenditures in the 2010 Financial Plan,         budgeted social expenditure priorities. Undetermined
of social and capital      focusing on social programs that have been proven to be efficient and equitable; it    At least three ministries have aligned their pre-investment
expenditure                will also safeguard the proportion of public investment over total 2010 budgeted        activities with their sector strategy and the priorities of the
                           expenditures. Completed                                                                 Government Plan. Undetermined
                          The execution of the 2009 Financial Plan is consistent with budgeted social            Institutional measures are taken to reduce duplication and
                           expenditure priorities. Budget execution represents at least 90% of what was            overlap in the implementation and oversight of social spending
                           foreseen in the Financial Plan. Completed                                               programs. Undetermined
                          Ministry of Finance establishes specific budget categories for maintenance
                           expenditures to improve the monitoring of infrastructure spending. Completed
4. Contributing to the    The Civil Service Law is reformed in order to strengthen public servants’              Government introduces competitive and transparent process for
professionalization of     professionalism and political neutrality, and also to redefine the scope of public      recruitment and promotion of civil servants, and the Civil
the civil service          administration, as well as the rights, obligations, and procedures associated to        Service Secretariat is overseeing those processes. Completed
                           recruitment, promotion and removal of public servants. (Presentation of the draft




                                                                                        36
law to Congress).




                    37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33464R
                  62W                                               60W                                                   58W                                                  56W                                              54W




18S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18S




                                B OLI VI A

                                                                                                                                                                                             PARAGUAY



                                                    Capitán Pablo
                                                    Capitán Pablo
                                                    Lagerenza
                                                    Lagerenza
                  To
                Santa Fé                                                                                       Puerto                                                                                                               20S
20S
                                                                 Cerro León      ALTO                    Bahía Negra
                                                                 (1,000 m)


        To
                    General Eugenio
                    General Eugenio                                        PA R A G U AY
                    A. Garay
                        A. Garay
      Boyuibe                                                               Fortín
                                                                            Madrejon
                                                                                                           Fuerte Olimpo


                                                                               Fortín Carlos
                                                                                                                                                                                         B RA ZIL
                                                                               A. Lopez
                                                                                                                    Puerto
                                                                                                              Tres Palmas                                        To
                Fortín
                Infante Rivarola
                                   BOQUERON                                                                                                                    Campo
                                                                                                                                                               Grande
                                                                                         Kilómetro
                                             Mariscal
                                              Mariscal
                                                                                         160
                                                                                                              co                                                                                                                    22S

                Doctor
                Doctor
                                          Estigarribia
                                           Estigarribia
                                                                                                         ha                     Puerto                                                        To
                Pedro P. Peña
                Pedro P. Peña                                                                  C                                La Victoria                                                 Dourados
                                                            Filadelfia
                                                                                         n                    Puerto Pinasco                                 AMAMBAY
                                                                                                                                                                                       Pedro Juan
                                                                               ra
                    Pilll




                                                                                                                                                                                       Caballero
                         c
                         co
                         c
                           ma
                           m
                           m




                                                                            G




                                                                                                                                          Aquidabán                 Yby Yaú
                           y
                           yo
                           y




                                Fortín                                            Verde
                                Leonida Escobar
                                                                                                         Pozo
                                                                                                                                          CONCEPCION
                                                                         Fortín ?valos                                                     Concepción
                                                                                                                                           Concectión                            Capitán
                                                                         Sánchez                         Colorado                                                                  Bado
                                                            Fortín
                                                            General
                                                                      Monte Lindo
                                                                                             PRESIDENTE
                                                            Díaz    Fortín Teniente                                                               San               Lima
                                                                    Rojas Silva                                                                 Pedro
                                                  To
                                                                                                         H AY E S                                                                                            Salto del
                                                                                                                                          Pa




24S                                           Las Lomitas                                                                                                                                                                           24S
                                                                                                                                                         SAN
                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                           a  rag




                                                                                                                                                                               CANENDIYÚ                      Guairá
                                                                                                                                                g
                                                                                                                                                g
                                                                                                                                               uay




                                                                                         Pilc                                                           PEDRO                  Curuguaty
                                                                                             om                                           Rosario
                                                                                                a   yo




                                                                                                                                                                                                               NA
                                                                                                                                  Villa                         San
                                                                                                                                 Hayes                    Estanislao                              Itaquayry

                                                                                                                                                                                                          RA
                                                                                                                                              CORDILLERA CAAGUAZU
                                                  ARGENTINA                                                                                          Caacupé         Coronel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cascavel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        PA
                                                                                                                ASUNCIÓN                                             Oviedo
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ciudad del
                                                                                                                    CENTRALIta                       Paraguari Cerro Pero                              Este
                                                                                                                                                                     (842 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  O




                                                                                                                       To                              Villarrica    A
                                                                                                                                                               GUAIR
                                                                                                                                                                                             LT




      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                               Santa
                                                                                                                     Formosa
      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                  Villa       PARA-
                                                                                                                                              PARA -                             Abaí         A     Rita
26S   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                 26S
                                                                                                                                  Oliva                                Caazapá
      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                              GUARI                               A
      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                            AP
                                                                                                                                                                        AZ
                                                                                                                          N M
                                                                                                                          NEEM
                                                                                                                          N M




                                                                                                                                                               CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         á
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ran




                                                                                                                                                      San Juan
                                                                                                                                                                               I TA P U A
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pa
                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                      M




                                                                                                                                                      Bautista
       PARAG U AY
                                                                                                                                BUC

                                                                                                                                          IS
                                                                                                                                 UC
                                                                                                                                 UC

                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                        Pilar                           San Ygnacio San Pedro
                                                                                                                                           III O




                                                                                                                                                N                   del Paraná
                                                                                                                                                     ES
                                                                                                                                  Ú
                                                                                                                                  Ú
                                                                                                                                  Ú




                                                                                                                    Desmochado
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                  Coronel
                                                                                                                        Paraná                              Bogado                   Encarnación
                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                              Santo Tomé

                 RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    28S
                 PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY

                 MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                 0          50          100        150 Kilometers
                 RAILROADS

                 DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                 0                 50                100 Miles
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                         60W                                              58W                                              56W                                            54W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JULY 2006
