                                                                                                        94068
Increasing Government Effectiveness in Uncertain Times                                               April 16, 2012




 Paraguay's Response to the Financial Crisis


Overview
In the challenging context of international financial crisis, the Paraguay government managed to
simultaneously launch and successfully implement key public sector structural reforms and
prepare a sound response to the global downturn. Significant progress was achieved in three
key structural areas: oversight of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which together received 30
percent of government spending; improved tax collections; and strengthened internal controls
across the administration. While improving these core aspects of fiscal management, the
government was also able to provide greater attention and financial support to social initiatives,
such as its cash transfer program. In addition, the Government introduced competitive and
transparent processes for recruitment and promotion of civil servants with oversight from the
Civil Service Secretariat in several institutions. While achieved on a partial basis, the
introduction of these processes represented an important milestone considering Paraguay’s
history and the program’s baseline.


Challenge
Paraguay’s public sector performance was a key challenge.
                                                                    More Results
SOEs were not effectively controlled, generating potential
contingent liabilities and inadequate provision of service

                                                                    5 out of
delivery in critical areas such as water, electricity, and
communications. Even after reaching on average 12 percent
of GDP between 2004 and 2009, up from 9 percent in the

                                                                    11
1990s, central government tax-to-GDP ratios remained
among the lowest in the region and could have potentially
generated sustainability and liquidity challenges. Internal
                                                                    ministries have established
control and audit effectiveness had been diagnosed as the           internal control norms and
fundamental challenge of Paraguay’s public financial                committee
management system. Finally, social spending and public
investment levels were low by regional standards.


Approach                                                            83,100
The project was designed with a view to adapting to country         beneficiaries in 2011 of the
                                                                    coverage of the cash transfer
circumstances and ensuring strong national ownership. On            program Tekopora
the one hand, the design of project components was based
on the Government’s Reform Agenda and a Crisis Response
Plan. At the same time, the sequencing of policy actions and
the expected outcomes were realistic and adapted to public
sector capacities.                                                  US$100
Results                                                             million
The first Paraguay Public Sector Development Policy Loan               was the IBRD contribution of the
focused on contributing to the effectiveness and efficiency of         project

the public sector while maintaining a stable macroeconomic
policy framework. The program helped to support
improvements in several key outcomes areas:                           LEARN MORE

                                                                        Paraguay First Public Sector
       Tax collection rose significantly during the 2008-2010           Programmatic DPL (2008-2010)
       period, with the tax/GDP ratio increasing 1.6
                                                                        UMBRAL Program Paraguay
       percentage points from 11.9 percent in 2008 to 13.5
       percent in 2010.

       Five out of 11 ministries - representing 70 percent of
       the overall budget - have established internal control
       norms and committees, and are using a standardized internal control framework. This
       improvement was reflected in an upgrade in the Public Expenditures Financial
       Accountability (PEFA) assessment for internal control and external audit (questions PI-
       20 and PI-21), where Paraguay moved from D+ in 2008 to C in 2010.

       Audited financial statements for eight of the nine SOEs, which account for 99 percent of
       overall SOE expenditures, were published in 2009 and 2010.

       The coverage of the cash transfer program Tekopora increased from 13,679
       beneficiaries in 2008 to 83,100 beneficiaries in 2011. The percentage of the road
       network that received periodic maintenance increased from 25 percent in 2008 to 45
       percent in 2010.



Bank Contribution
IBRD contribution of the project was US$100 million.


Partners
The implementation of the standardized internal control framework was supported by USAID.
Total program costs are approximately US$30 million through the preparation of an
implementation manual and training.


Moving Forward
The Bank team is currently preparing a second Public Sector Development Policy Loan, which
aims to support the Government of Paraguay in implementing and consolidating its reform
program to improve the public sector. The loan would focus on three areas of policy reform: i)
SOE oversight, ii) Central administration internal financial control, and internal audit, and iii) Tax
system.


Beneficiaries
Improvements in public sector management benefit all citizens through more efficient and
transparent central administration, through better public service delivery, and through better
quality and access to public information.
