Do_uet of
Tlhe World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6922
THE WORLD BANK
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 870-GUI)
August 31, 1987
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This dmenuo  ha a nrtdcftd        anr@b _d my be _e by rcpient osy in the p$orni   of
their. dk   dties.     conte   my nd &bwMl  be dIsld witbo  Wodd Bank aut    on.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. 870-GUI)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli (redesignated the Guinean
Franc in 1986).
At Appraisal               US$1 = Sylis 20
At Project Completion      US$1 = Sylis 24.4
At PCR Date                US$1 = Guinean Francs 350
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer                   (km)
Meter                       (m)
Hectare                     (ha)
Cubic Meter                 (M 3)
Cubic Meter per Second      (m3/s)
Liter                       (1)
Liter per Second            (l/s)
Liter per Capita per Day   (lcd)
Milligram per Liter         (mg/1)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WHO       World Health Organization
AfDB      African Development Bank
MIE       Ministry of Industry and Energy
DEG       Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau de Guin6e
RAC       Region Administrative de Conakry
PU        Project Unit of MIE
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
GOG       Government of Guinea



ISI BLAN
- -'Ir _
TOipw lT- AR Aow4  T lp=
A I   D mfl   Xo,*  



rY~~~~~o
I                      -<
I " 
i~~~~ A
'r!~ ~ mm
I ~    ~ ~ V:          co
J              w



I - e
I.,
I                   7Q ^
Ti
0                                    Q
* s .. ~~~~~



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR.870-GUI)
PROJlECT COMPLETION REPORT
MISSION DATA
Item                    Date              No. of    No. of    Man-    Date of
Weeks     Persons   Weeks   Report
Identification          03/77             1.5          2        3       04/77
Pre-Appraisal           07/77             2.0          2        4       09/77
Appraisal               01/78             3.0          2        6       02/78
Post Appraisal l        04/78              1.5         2        3.0     06/78
Post Appraisal II       10/78             0.5          1        0.5     11/78
Supervision 1           01/79             1.5          1        1.5     02/79
Supervision II          09/79             2.4          2        4.8     10/79
Supervision III         12/79             1            1        1        n/a
Supervision IV          02/80             4.1          2        8.2     03/80
Supervision V           09/80             4            2        8       11/80
Supervision VI          03/81             1            1        1       05/81
Supervision VII         06/81             1            1        1       08/81
Supervision VIII        09/81             2            2        4       11/81
Supervision IX          04/82             1.5          1        1.5     06/82
Supervision X           09/82             1            1        1       11/82
Supervision XI          10/82             1            1        1       12/82
Supervision XII         03/83             1            3        3       06/83
Supervision XIII        06/83             1            1        1       08/83
Supervision XIV         03/84             1            3        3       04/83
Supervision XV          11/84             1            2        2       02/85
Supervision XVI         07/85             0.5          1        0.5     10/85
Completion              12/85             2            2        4       01/86
35.5                 63



-v -
REPUBLIC OF C- NEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITAT. N PROJECT (CR.870-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.        The Conakry Water Supply and Sanitation project was implemented
as a first part of long-term requirements for water supply and sanitation,
aimed primarily at establishing Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau
de Guinee (DEG) as a viable organization, at restoring a satisfactory water
supply level of service and at providing appropriate sanitation to most of
Conakry's population. The IDA credit of US$12.5 million was used to
finance construction of transmission and distribution mains and pipes; a
reservoir; a booster pumping station and a treatment facility; drilling,
rehabilitation and equipment of boreholes; house connections; standpipes
and related equipment and materia]s; purchase of chemicals and small
vehicles for well inspection and disinfection; technical assistance and
consulting services, a training program within DEG and construction of
house and office accommodation. Joint financing was provided by the
African Develo,'ment Bank (AfDB), in an amount equivalent at appraisal to
US$6 million of which US$4.75 were dispursed.  The balance is to be used to
finance supplies and equipment related to the project as agreed between GOG
and AfDB.
2.        The total cost of the project as implemented was US$21.874
million, about 0.2% lower than the appraisal astimate of US$21.905 million
(para 3.17).
3.        The physical works have been completed to a satisfactory standard
but not as extensively as specified with SAR for some components (Section
III, IV). The project took nearly seven years to complete (April 1979 -
December 1985). Institutional (Section VI) and financial (Section V)
performance has not been satisfactory. This Project Completion Report (PCR)
explores the various reasons for this unsatisfactory outcome. It should be
noted that the project was the first Bank involvement in the sector and
thus a new venture for both Bank and the Government of Guinea (GOG).
Reasons for Unsatisfactory Project Performance
4.        The political and economic environment which prevailed at the
time of project implementation has been the main factor for poor
institutional and financial performance, inspite of the attempt to isolate
the sector from thie environment, through a set of conditionalities,
attached to the credit.
(i)    Unsatisfactory Financial Performance.  No improvement has
been made in financial management during project
implementation. The accounting system prescribed for DEG
is defective, with major financial data being omitted from
the accounts (paras 5.02 ,.. 5.05). The financial
covenants of the project agreement have not been met (para
5.16). The weak financial performance is attributed to



- vi -
overstaffing, poor operating and maintenance standards,
failure to bill or collect adequate revenues, and the
absence of financial autonomy so that little incentive
exists to cut costs or maximize revenues; all these
factors being compounded by shortage of managerial skills
(despite massive injections of technical assistance),
pervasive lack of motivation, and the widespread shortage
of the corsumers' liquid resources in the country (paras
5.07 ... 5.15).
(ii)   Poor General Management Performance.  During project
execution frequent changes were made in top management.
These, together with the persistent interference in
management (including appointment of employees) by higher
echelons of government, under the ideology then
prevailing, prevented the management from improving their
skills and taking advantage of technical assistance. The
lack of coordination between DEG, in charge of operations,
and the Project Unit (PU) in charge of construction, also
at times hindered project execution (paras 6.04, 6.05).
Key Lessons to be Learned
5.        The key lessons to be learned for implementing future projects in
Guinea and in this sector are:
(i)    DEG as presently constituted is rot competent to be
responsible, either for project implementation or for
system operation and maintenance (though ideally one
authority should be responsible for both).
(ii)   A greater degree of financial and managerial freedom, with
correspondingly greater accountability, should be
introduced into the sector; interference by supervisory
agencies should be limited to control of the general
orientation of the sector. In particular, a sound system
of financial procedures and accounts on internationally
accepted lines is essential (para 9.05).
(iii)  To achieve these objectives, partial privatization may be
a serious option, preferably with the aid of an
established and experienced overseas utility company (para
9.05).



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 870-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1, INTRODUCTION
A. The Borrower and the Project
1.01      The borrower of Credit 870-GUI was the Government of the Republic
of Guinea and its beneficiaries were the National Water Authority (DEG) for
the urban water supply component and the "Municipality" of Conakry (RAC)
for the sanitation and drainage component. Since none of these
organizations had a relevant experience in term of project implementation,
it was decided to create a Project Unit (PU) for that purpose. The US$12.5
million Credit was approved on December 12, 1978, signed on January 12,
1979 and effective on April 13, 1979. That was the first Bank financing
for the sector and the sixth loan/credit only for the country. The African
Development Bank (AfDB) cofinanced the project in an amount equivalent to
US$6.0 million. Both financings should cover 100% of the foreign exchange
component or 84% of the total project cost; the remaining 16% were to be
financed by the Government.
B. The Sector
1.02      At the time the project was appraised, only 10% of the urban
population benefitted from piped water either through household connections
or through standpipes; the remaining 90% were believed to rely on wells in
shallow aquifers or running streams. Even in the served urban centers the
quality of service was very low except in the mining centers whose water
supply facilities were managed by the mining companies. At the same time
there were almost no modern rural water points; villagers obtained their
water also from traditional dug wells and springs or surface water. Only
Conakry and the mining centers were equipped with sewerage/drainage
networks but the one of the capital city was in neglect and clogged in many
points.
1.03      Apart from a rather important investment in the early sixties for
the Conakry water supply (Grandes Chutes scheme) financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany (KfW) and some minor projects later financed by AfDB,
bilateral agencies (USSR, Italy) and suppliers credit the sector suffered
in the mid seventies through under-investment. Only three secondary
centers, the capital city and the mining centers were potentially served.
This situation forced the Governrent to seek assistance from internatio-aui
aid organizations. AfDB, the first contacted advised the Government to ask
the Bank to cofinance a first expansion of a water supply and sanitation
project for Conakry.



- 2 -
1.04      This PCR has been prepared by the West African Project Department
of the World Bank, on the basis of a Completion mission (two weeks in
December 1985) plus information contained in the SAR, project files,
supervision reports and in the completion reports prepared by the
implementing agencies (DEG and PU). The report has been discussed with the
Government in June 1986 and its final version reflects, to the extent
possible, comments formulated during that meeting.
II - PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      In 1974, the Government of Guinea requested AfDB's assistance for
the rehabilitation and improvement of the Cona'kry water supply.  AfDB and
the UNDP then accepted to cofinance feasibility studies for a mid-term
investment program for the urban water supply and sanitation sector. They
were carried out by consultants under supervision of the World Health
Organization (WHO). These studies were reviewed in Conakry by a Bank
mission in July 1977.
2.02      A joint Bank/AfDB appraisal was carried out in January 1978.  The
physical components of the project (Conakry water supply/sanitation/
drainage) were defined on the basis of the above mentioned feasibility
studies, however, after the water demand forecasts were significantly
reduced. The other components (technical assistance, training and
consultants services) were identified and prepared by the Government and
the Bank. In order to speed up project preparation a US$270,000 PPF was
granted by the Bank to help finance detailed designs and tender documents
for the drainage network, housing, offices, the services of an expert in
commercial management as well as audits of the 1975 to 1977 DEG's accounts.
Both the Bank and AfDB requested DEG and PU to be assisted during project
implementation by experienced technical assistants in the fields of
management, water distribution, companies procurement, and construction
supervision. Guinea had hardly benefitted from foreign technical
assistance since independence (1959) and this was considered to be an
important input by donors if they were to participate in tbe sector.
A. Project Objectives
2.03      The objectives expected to be reached during project execution
are summarized below:
(a)    to provide additional production capacity in the vicinity
of Conakry and thus to offer greater reliability to the
water system, this system being dependent on a single long
transmission pipe;



- 3 -
(b)    to increase the transmission performance of the Yessoulou
gravity pipe limited at the delivery point to about
28,000 mt/day (to be compared with a design capacity of
about 40,000 m3/day);
(c)    to improve the performance of the trunk main and
distribution system and extend the distribution network
and water supply services to a larger segment of the
Conakry population;
(d)    to improve and strengthen the technical and financial
capabilities of DEG in both the project area and the
secondary centers where it already operated or where it
would later take over;
(e)    to rehabilitate and expand the Conakry drainage works and
restore the technical and administrative capability of
"Reglon Administrative de Conakry" (RAC) technical
services responsible for the maintenance of the drainage
network; and
(f)    (i) to prepare, through appropriate studies and assistance
a long-term development plan of the water supply and
sanitation for the whole of Guinea; (ii) the development
water supply and sanitation schemes for urban centers; and
(iii) a policy to reduce depevidence of Guinea on imported
water treatment chemicals and smaller diameter pipes, by
encouraging their manufacture locally.
As a result of the project the expected objectives related to
restoring a satisfactory level of service and givlng appropriate sanitation
to most of Conakry's population were partly achieved (paras 3.07, 4.07).
In this respect the percentage of domestic users was 54% in 1984 against
68% forecasted. The proportion served directly through private connections
is approximately the same as expected (28%); however, because of the
limited number of new standpipes commissioned, the proportion supplied by
standpipes is only 26%, 13% shorter than expected (39%), as a result about
165,000 people have benefitted from the project against 300,000 people
expected.
B. Project Description
2.04      As finally agreed, the project comprised the following major
components, shown in more detail in Annex 1-2:
(a)    Water Supply:
(i) Drilling of boreholes; construction of transmission
mains distribution pipes, reservoirs, and a
treatment facility; construction of and equipping
booster and pumping stations;



- 4 -
(ii) Provision of house connections, standpipes, water
meters and related equipment and materials;
(iii) Construction and equipment of office space, training
facilities and houses;
(iv) Purchase of chemicals, spare parts, miscellaneous
equipment and vehicles to improve DEG's day-to-day
operations;
(b)    Drainage and Sanitation:
(v)  Conversion of unlined drainage ditches to concrete
drainage canals in three Conakry districts;
(vi) Purchase of chemicals and small vehicles for the
Division of Preventive Hygiene responsible for well
inspection and disinfection;
(vii) Installation of 10 sanitary blocks in low income
parts of Conakry;
(c)    Consulting Services and Technical Assistance:
(viii) Provision of 36.5 tAayears of technical assistance
and consulting services; and
(ix) Establishment of a training program covering 22.5
man/years of fellowships and training abroad, for
engineers and technicians.
2.05      The physical components of the project which focussed on the
capital city was only a first step in a possible long-texi involvement
aiming at establishing DEC as a viable organization and restoring a
satisfactory level of service in a potentially profitable center; furtber
expansion in secondary cities, which suffered and still suffer from
inadequate water supply but where the cost of water is considerably higher
would become possible. Furthermore, the project aimed at addressing the
most urgent issues in the field of drainage and sanitation, the latter
being perceived as a consequence of an improved water supply.
III - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      The Credit became effective on April 13, 1979 four montlhs after
Board presentation. The contracts between DEG and a water distribution
company; between PU and an Engineering consultant 'nd the opening of a



special account in foreign exchange at the Banque Guingenne du Commerce
Ext6rieur were conditions of effectiveness.
A. Water Supply
3.02      The contract for the drilling of boreholes was awarded in April
1980 for completion in 12 months. Since the pumping tests were
significantly lower than what was expected at the time of appraisal,
detailed designs and tender documents for the pumping equipment and the
transmlssion had to be revised. Works finally started early 1983 and
completed late 1983. Seven boreholes have been equipped at Kakimba and
only one (instead of seven) at Bassia. The aquifers yield (in theory) only
about 40% of the initially expected production; however, since energy
supply is highly unrealiable 1/ the incremental water production
resulting from these boreholes is only 20% of what was anticipated at the
time of appraisal. Retrospectively, it appears that it would have been
much more prudent to drill reconnaissance boreholes particularly at Kakimbo
and Bassia during project preparation in order to firm up the available
yield of the aquifers.
3.03      Only one 5,000m3 reservoir has been built (out of the two
envisaged) due to the available low additional water production. A
simplified treatment unit (chlorination, aeration and Ph adjustment) has
also been installed at this reservoir. The construction has been
satisfactorily carried out albeit with a one year delay. Until now it has
been almost impossible to fill the reservoir. The operation of the
treatment unit is an unsolved issue, and the aeration tower (initially
envisaged for iron removal) in fact leads to energy losses.
3.04      The booster pumping station to be built at the Yessoulou
treatment plant located 40 km from Conakry, has not been built. Ir fact
detailed surveys carried out during project implementation showed that the
pipeline transmission capacity had been dramatically reduced due to
chemical deposits on the wall as a result of an improper use of the
treatment plant. 'Thus, PU proposed to first clean the 40 km long
downstream treated water transmission line (Yessoulou treatment plant -
Conakry) and then the 40 km long upstream raw water transmission line
(Grandes Chutes Dam - Yessoulou treatment plant). Works were carried out
by a specialized contractor for a total cost of US$230,000 which can be
very favorably compared to the cost of the envisaged boosters. The
conveying capacity has been increased by 12,000 m3/d, i.e. about 40% of the
operating yield at the time of appraisal. However and despite (partial)
rehabilitation works of the Yessoulou treatment plant, also carried out
under the project, improper use of chemicals may again result in deposits
on the pipe walls and reduce the transmission line capacity. DEC did under
force account the rehabilitation of the transmission line. The old
1/   DEG is presently negotiating financing of standby generators.



- 6 -
Kakoulima transmission line has been partly rehabilitated and equipped with
a chlorination unit.
3.05      Distribution network expansions were carried out by two companies
which both experienced many difficulties due to an under estimation of
earth works and inadequacy of equipment. Some network extensions were also
carried out by DEG under force account.  Since few new connections had been
built by DEG on newly laid pipes, PU was asked to temporarily take this
responsibility. About 1,000 connections were built but no meter could be
installed since those supplied under this project had been diverted by
persons unknown from their intended use.. Sixty five public standpipes
were built but partly and late connected to the distribution network, only
after the Conakry provincial authority has accepted to pay for the water
consumption. Budgetary constraints have since thea pushed DEG to seek an
improved system which would ensure a better collection ratio.
3.06      Building and housing construction suffered important delays after
the initial contract awarded to the lowest bidder (at the Bank's request)
had to be cancelled. Spare parts, tools and miscellaneous equipment for
DEG and RAC have been procured either through international competitive
bidding or through the technical assistance contracts (on the basis of
detailed action plan) and after three suppliers at least had submitted a
bid. An electromechanic workshop and water meter repair workshop have also
been built and equipped. However, the limited number of water meters in
operation does not justify the latter.
B. Sewerage and Drainage
3.07      The contract for construction of drains and backfilling of
regularly flooded areas was finally awarded in September 1981 after bids
were called a second time; the company initially selected was informed by
the Government of the decision eight months after bids were received;
slowness in bid evaluation and consequently clearance from the Bank were
among the reasons for that delay. The other major reasons were the high
total cost of the work and undue requirements from the contractor. Works
have finally been carried out, without any major problem other than an 18
months delay; they were completed in march 1985. Rehabilitation of
existing collectors, carried out under force account by RAO was very slow
and always hampered by insufficient budgetary allocation. Only two
sanitary blocks out of the ten initially envisaged have been built close co
market places, after a new survey of the demand for that type of service
during project execution showed a limited interest from the part of the
population. Sanitary inspection of openi wells and their disinfection were
not carried out, due to internal management problems of the Division of
Sanitary Prevention (DPS) which should have been the executing agency for
this component. Closing of private open wells had to be postponed due to
insufficient implementation of secondary networks and inadequate surveying
works on existing wells by PU.



- 7 -
C. Consultancy Services and Tachnical Assistance
3.08      The project included an important technical assistance component,
intended to help achieving the main goal of institution building. A
technical assistance team from a private water distribution company which
initially included six members was seconded to DEG. The team arrived too
early in Conakry and was not immediately integrated within DEG's structure,
partly because of insufficient logistics. The technical assistance team
became more efficient when it was decided to assign it specific
rehabilitation tasks (for example equipment of the (randes Chutes
transmission line, improvement of the treatment plant....) to be carried
out with DEG labour, materials and tools, placed under the technical
assistance team's responsibility. These maintenance and rehabilitation
tasks have been effectively carried out but since no permanent procedures
could be implemented, it is unlikely that they could be replicated without
external assistance. Technical assistance to the commercial department
took place In the form of regular short missions spread out over six years.
Although very detailed procedures were prepared they have never been fully
implemented. In fact customers management steadily decayed due to
permanent external intervention from the Government in DEG's management
(especially its division into several independant companies - see
para 6.04), inadequacy of the facilities (impossibility to cut-off bad
payers) and poor quality of service (low or no pressure).
3.09      DEG's accounts have regularly been audited since 1978.  However,
major discrepancies between international accounting procedures and the
Cuinean ones were rapidlv identified, a revision of the auditors' TORs was
needed with an orientation towards accounting procedures. This
modification took place in 1983 at the end of the contract of the first
auditor selected.
3.10      The engineer'.ag consultant team selected for technical assistance
to PU consisted of three engineers (a mission leader, an engineer for the
water supply works and another for the sewerage/drainage works). Its role
has always been limited both by the Government and the financing agencies
to assistance to bid evaluation and construction supervision, although in
many cases a considerption of alternatives at the time of appraisal would
have led to substantial savings. The performance of this technical
assistance team, however, was of good quality, and all the works initiated
were finally completed albeit with delays.
3.11      An important training program was also included in the project.
On the spot training by the technical assistants (either permanent or on
short regular mission) as well as training abroad, which gave DEG's staff
the possibility to visit and observe correctly managed water companies,
have mainly resulted in an improvement of individual knowledge. Outside
training activities in Ivory Coast, France and Tunisia have not always been
organized in connection with DEG's actual needs. Also the role played by
the training specialist seconded within the framework of the technical
assistance contract to DEG has not really been sv.ccessful, the TORs of this
expert were oriented too much towards the preparation of a training program



- 8 -
and not enough towards follow-up on its implementation. So far the
training program financed under the project has had a very limited impact
on DEG's operation, partly because of the political environment at that
time in Guinea.
3.12      Among feasibility studies initially envisaged on the of secondary
centers water supply some were carried out, thanks to additional funding
provided by the UNCDF for ground water investigations. The other studies
not really relevant in the Guinean context (feasibility of PVC pipe
ma"ufacturing and aluminum sulphate) were not performed. However, at the
end of the project execution, it was decided to add two preparatory studies
for a possible second project (institutional reorganization and a
feasibility study of Conakry water supply expansion).
D. Project Revision
3.13      As already mentioned there were several small project revisions,
which were taken but they had no major impact on the projected objectives.
The construction of one 5,000 m3 reservoir was (cancelled (it was not really
useful), a booster station had to be built at a different location (due to
a lower yield of one of the aquifers), proposed booster stations on the
Grandes Chutes transmission line were replaced by much less as expensive
pipe cleaning operation which furthermore does not generate any operation
and maintenance problems. The technical assistance contracts to DEC and PU
could be extended several times thanks to a strong appreciation of the U.S.
dollar vis-a-vis the european currencies (in which mest of the expenses
were incurred).
E. Implementation Schedule
3.14      The credit closing date was extended twice between March 31, 1983
and March 31, 1985 to allow for completion of construction of drains,
sanitary blocks and secondary network, and com2letion of the technical
assistance contracts. Except for the three above mentioned items which
suffered delays of 36 and 12 months respectively (when compared with
completion dates envisaged at the time of the appraisal) all major
components were completed before the initial closing date. This is a
remarkable performance in the Guinean context (if one takes into account
important delays because of complicated procurement procedures and
permanent difficulties encountered by contractors for the supply of
material and equipment) and is mainly due to the good project management by
PU.
F. Pnecurement
3.15      Cumbersome and centralized procurement procedures and misunder-
standings of Bank guidelines for procurement have resulted in the above
mentioned delays for contract awards. All contracts have been awarded to
foreign companies after ICB. However, the number of bids has always been
very limited leaving PU with a very narrow choice.



-9-
G. Reporting
3,16      PU has prepared and submitted progress reports every six months;
although they were sufficiently documented they were l..ited to a review of
implementation of physical components of the project. On its side DEG has
never issued a report which would have given a picture of its operations.
Monitoring indicators have generally been estimated by Bank !taff during
supervision missions on the basis of mostly unreliable statistical data.
H.  Project Cost
3.17      The final total project cost has been US$21.9 million exactly as
estimated at the time of appraisal. Details by components are given in
Annex 3.  Although the final project cost is almost identical to the
initial estimate, there are substantial variations in the final allocation
by component.
Project Cost
(US$ million)
Actual       Appraisal
Water Supplv Works                             9.86            12.68
Spare Parts and Chemicals                      1.20             0.60
Sewerage and Drainage Works                    2.47             3.14
Offices and Housing                            1.26             0.50
Training                                       0.22             0.52
Technical Assistance                           2.17             1.88
Construction Supervision                       3.19             1.07
Studies                                        1.50             1.52
Total                               21.87            21.91
The main increase has been in the categories "construction supervision" and
"technical assistance" for which a total of 386 man-months (equivalent to
US$5.4 million) has been spent to be compared with initial estimates of
304 man-months (equivalent to US$2.96 million). DEG and PU weaknesses
justified this "heavy" technical assistance. These weaknesses, as well as
the ones of the guinean system as a whole, have drastically reduced the
impact technical assistance, especially on DEG's operations.
I. Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and Borrowers
3.18      The engineering consultant who assisted PU in project management
has performed satisfactorily as far as procurement and construction
supervision were concerned. It may be deemed unfortunate that they were
never asked to review some of the questionable choices made at the time of
feasibility studies or detailed designs. Feasibility studies for seven
secondary centers and for Conakry were performed satisfactorily by the same
consultant. The rather average performance of the technical team seconded



- 10 -
to DEG is mainly due to the very limited absorptive capacity of the latter.
As long as technical assistants were considered advisors to DEG's
management team and had to rely on DEG's organization to execute their
advise their impact was almost inexistant. The teennical assistants
started to be really efficient when specific tasks were assigned to them
and sufficient means to perform them were provided. In a short run
improvements could be noted but this type of action was not really
beneficial since no procedure could be established on sufficiently firm
grounds for future rehabilitation actions. Procedures prepared by the
technical assistance to the commercial department were established but only
partly followed.
3.19      Except in the case of the company to which the construction of
offices and housing was initially awarded, all contractors finally
completed the works albeit often with substantial delays.
3.20      Performances of the borrower and the Bank are analyzed in the
chapters V and VIII respectively.
J. Disbursements
3.21      The following table gives a comparison of the actual disbursement
profile with the one proposed at the time of appraisal and the standard
regional profile for water supply projects. Execution was longer than
originally envisaged but shorter than the average disbursement profile for
the region.
Cumulative Disbursements of the IDA Credit
Standard
Fiscal          Aplraisal           Actual         Regional
Year             Ptofile            Profile        Profile
79                .62                .80             .13
80               4.25               1.84            1.38
81               9.12               3.62            3.25
82              12.00               5.37            5.50
83              12.50               7.10            7.63
84                                  9.10            9.50
85                                 11.16           10.88
86                                 12.47           11.75
87                                                 12.47
88



- 11 -
IV. OPERATIONS
4.01      Operations of facilities built under the project is not what was
envisaged at the time of appraisal. It has already been stated that the
combination of a low yield of the new boreholes compounded with an
unreliable energy supply has resulted in an actual production of less than
20% of the expected additional quantity of water to be produced by the
Bassia and Kakimba boreholes. The cleaning of the transmission line has
resulted in a substantial increase of the quantity of water delivered by
this scheme to Conakry. But the improper use of chemicals at the Yessoulou
treatment plant could lead to new deposits on the pipe walls. The
rehabilitation of the treatment plant was only partially carried out and
will need to be continued in future projects.
4.02      Important and visible leaks can still be noted in the
distribution network; losses may have increased as a result of
reinforcements carried out under the project which have elevated the
pressure in neighbourhoods which were formely poorly supplied with water.
As for other facilities rehabilitation actions will have to be carried out
for several years. At the end of the project the number of connections
(registered and unregistered) was still unknown, while their inventory was
one of the operational covenants of the Credit Agreement. During the
entire period of project implementation, DEG and PU have officially
constructed about 1,700 connections (of which 1,050 by PU) while the total
number of customers (including regularization of existing connections)
raised from 8,800 to 11,200 between 1979 and 1984. A systematic inventory
of the connections is presently been carried out as part of the preparatory
activities to a possible second water supply project.
4.03      The drainage network built under the project operates
satisfactorily. Despite an apparent overdimensioning, drains operate at
its design capacity several times per year. At the time of project
completion the construction of the sanitary blocks had only just been
completed and it was difficult to judge their operation (mainly maintenance
may not be problemative).
4.04      The following table gives a comparison between estimates done at
the time of appraisal and the perceived situation in 1984 for some
monitoring indicators.



- 12 -
Appraisal          Estimate
(Conakry only)                  1978        1984         1984
Population                  574,000      792,650      741,737
Total Connections              6,176       13,176      11,167
People per Connection             34           28          20
Standpipes                       102          342         112 1/
People per Standpipe           1,000          900       2,800 2/
Water Produced (000m3)        10,480       16,890      16,050
Water Sold (OOOm3)             7,130       12,890      11,400
Unaccounted for Water %           32           24          29
Population Served                41%         68%          54% 2/
by Private Connections         23%         29%          28%
by Standpipes                  18%          39%         26%
1/ Not all in service
2/ Estimated
V. FINANCIAL, PERFORMANCE
A. Background
5.01      The institutional structure of the sector provides that, under
the tutelage of the former Ministry of Industry and Energie (MIE)
subsequently known as Ministry of Energy and the Konkoure and more recently
renamed Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and the Environment,
Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau de Guinee (DEG) is in charge of
commercial and operational activities. The Project Unit (PU) is in charge
of implementation of the Conakry Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
5.02      DEG was created by law in 1961 as a public enterprise owned by
the State and purportedly having administrative and financial autonomy and
headed by a General Manager; the Board provided for in the statute and
whose members are from ministries, has never met. In fact DEG has been
treated and managed as a Ministry department with only an illusory
semblance of a legal personality.
5.03      PU was created as an MIE agency in charge of project
implementation and was to be dissolved once the project was completed.
5.04      Such a division of responsibility in the water supply sector has
numerous disadvantages; it means that the financial picture does not
reflect the actual situation in the sector. DEG operates and maintains the
system and is responsible for billing and collection of water charges. The
project unit manages some of the investments; and the Ministry of "State
Control" and the Central Bank administer capital expenditure and the debt



- 13 -
service and decide when and how the assets and debt should be recorded in
DEG's accounts.
5.05      Accordingly, assessing the sector's financial performance implies
an examination and collection of information from the four above named
organizations which operate under differing accounting systems mostly not
in line with generally accepted practice.
5.06      This problem had been foreseen during preparation missions and
the Bank had obtained informal assurances that changes in procedures could
be Introduced with the help of the auditors to achieve reliable and
informative financial accounts. However, despite repetition of requests
and assurances (and a considerable consultant Input) no .eal attempt was
made to set up modifications in procedures and changes In administrative
organization.
5.07      However, these were not the only constraints in the financial
field. Other countries have fragmented and dispersed sector
responsibilities, but still manage to futction effectively from the
financial standpoint; DEG labored under a number of other disabilities,
many arising from the economic, political and administrative climate which
prevailed in Guinea up to 1984, with a system of rigidly centralized
control of economic activity, a much overvalued currency, and a chronic
shortage of funds, particularly foreign exchange. Because of centralized
control, DEG had little say in staffing or financial matters; any surplus
it might earn had to be paid over to COG, and even its depreciation
provisions likewise surrenderei for investment, possibly elsewhere.
Because of the shortage of funds, everv expenditure over and above trivial
sums required specific and time-consuming approval from above; and because
of the shortage of consumer goods services at officially administered
prices, the Syli became less and less meeningful as an indicator of real
value. In these circumstances, it is understandable that DEG officials had
little or no incentive to maximize revenues or minimize expenditure; at all
events, little effort is visible In these directions. Metering, billing
and revenue collection have in particular been deficient throughout; if it
had not been for prompt pavment bv GOG of its water bills (albeit on
estimated consumption), DEG's finances would have been even more precarious
than they are.
5.08      The financial forecasts in the appraisal report showed positive
rates of return based on revalued assets and sufficient internal funds to
cover the debt service. However, DEG accounts were not kept on a basis to
permit comparison with the appraisal forecasts. The failure came from
mainly three reasons (a) absence of a proper accounting record of assets
and debt service, (b) absence of adequate procedures to certify and to
validate data, and (c) lack of internal controls e.g. over billings and
collections and the reconciliation of these.
5.09      Comparison with appraisal forecasts was possible once auditors
proposed corrections, and data on investments and borrowings during project
implementation were introduced and recorded. DEG's accounts are set out in



- 14 -
Annex 4-1 and 4-2 and summarized below for the project period (1978 -
1984). Figures in US dollars are calculated at an average exchange rate of
US$1.00 for Sylis 22.24. However, this exchange rate was almost certainly
artificial and to this extent, expenditure in foreign currencies (e.g.
project imports) are understated in terms of Sylis (see para 7.05).
Summy of nncing Plan
1978 - 1984
Apmprial Estimate   DEG's Accounts/Actual   Actual/AdJust
Sylis    US$        Sylis      US$        Sylis   US$
millions millions    uillios  mildions   miUions mllons
ReodrfYts
Preent Cmakry Project            332.5     16.6                            352.00    15.83
Farani/Giekedou Secodary Centers  180.0     9.0                           254.00    11.42
Other                            115.7      5.8                            100.60    4.52
Total Construction           628.2     31.4      266.3     11.98      706.60    31.77
Cash Increase (Decrease)           1.3      0.1         2.5      0.11       2.50     0.11
Inc. (Dec) In Working Capital     37.6      1.8       (57.3)    (2.58)     (20.89)   (0.94)
Total Reqyireents            67.3      33.3      211.5      9.51      688.21    30.94
Sources
Operating Incou                   89.2     4.45      (134.8)    (6.05)    (134.34)   (6.05)
Dqpeciation                      318.1    15.88       233.3    10.49       232.84    10.47
Taxes                              6.3     0.33
Intenal Cash Generation          398.0    20.00        98.5     4.42       98.50     4.42
Less: Debt Service               229.1     11.5        -                   112.69    5.07
Net Internl Cash Generation   168.9    8.5        98.5      4.43      (14.19)   (0.65)
Borrnongs
- IDA                          159.0      7.9                            195.00    8.77
- AfDB                         122.9      6.0                            96.00     4.32
- Other                        140.0      6.9                            169.00    7.60
Total Borrwdngs              421.9    20.8                            460.00    20.69
C(verment Contribution            76.5      4.0       113.0      5.08     242.40    10.90
Total Sources               667.3     33.3       211.5       9.51     688.21    30.94
B. Financial Analysis
5.10       From information set out in the financing plan above, and in
Annexes 4-1 and 4-2, two pictures emerge; the first one is based on data
recorded in DEG's accounts (Annex 4-1) the second one (Annex 4-2) is a



- 15 -
reconstruction based on DEG's and the PU's data taking into account the
investments and the debt service as recorded by IDA and AfDB, after
partial adjustment for auditor corrections.
5.11      As recorded in DEG's accounts, the capital expenditure is about
Sylis 266 million (US$12.0 million) for the whole period, about 42% of the
appraisal estimate. However, this figure is incomplete; DEC incorporates
capital expenditure only as and when instructed, at a valuation on the
basis implemented by the Ministry of State Control and Central Bank and at
long intervals; the true figure of capital expenditure as shown in the
reconstructed accounts was about Sylis 707 million (US$32.0 million),
about 12% above the appraisal estimate, accounted for by investments in
certain minor centers (14% of total). Other omissions are that borrowing
requirements to meet this expenditure, as well as debt service, are not
recorded in the accounts, which show capital expenditure as financed by
government contributions.
5.12      DEG's income statements reflect a steady deterioration in its
financial condition. Even without any charge for loan interest, the
accumulated losses during the period reached Sylis 134.8 million (US$6.06
million) compared with a surplus of Sylis 89.2 million (US$4.45 million)
appraisal estimate. After the adjustments for debt service, the true
total deficit 1978-1984 was nearly double, at Sylis 234.9 million
(US$10.56 million); deficits arose in every year except 1980. Internal
cash generation fell well short (87%) of debt service requirements,
reflected in a corresponding drop in working capital, i.e. an excess of
liabilities. The root causes of the deficit are related to (i) low
tariffs (para 5.14) and customer growth, so that revenues by i984 were
only 72% of the appraisal forecast; (ii) overstaffing; (iii) the poor
billing system whereby many consumers and all public entities pay only on
estimated consumption; (iv) the lack of maintenance and management of the
distribution network causing waste of water produced and treated; and (v)
the growing operating expenses in Conakry and also in the secondary
centers from which derive no substantial revenues, and where operation
costs are relatively high.
5.13      The balance sheet shows illiquidity and a decline in financial
condition. Customer accounts receivable increased from Sylis 28.8 million
(US$1.3 million) in 1978 to Sylis 124 million (US$5.6 million) in 1984, of
which Sylis 42 million (US$1.9 million) has had to be written off as
irrecoverable. The amount as of December 1984 represents eleven months of
billing, mainly in respect of sums due from private consumers; the sums
due from Government and municipalities for water bills are regularly paid
according to the budget allocation (para 5.14). Liabilities rose from
Sylis 5.4 million (US$0.24 million) in 1979 to Sylis 164 million (US$7.4
million) in 1984. There are also other liabilities, not recorded, for
electricity and supplies; such expenses are recorded only when paid.
DEG's difficult financial situation reflects to some extent the economic
recession and the countrywide financial shortage, demonstrated by the
amount of debt service overdue to external lenders in this sector --
Sylis 145 million (US$6.5 million).



- 16 -
C. Tariff s
5.14      DEG's water tariff was doubled to Sylis 8/mr3 slhortly after
appraisal, and it was a condition of the Development Credit Agreement that
the tariff would be maintained at a level sufficient to cover operating
expenses and depreciation (or debt service if greater). Appraisal
projections forecast increases to Sylis 10/mr3 itn 1981 and Sylis 12/m3 in
1983; the first increase was duly implemented, but the tariff then
remained unchanged for the rest of the project period, never sufficient to
keep DEG out of deficit.  There was no attempt to structure the tariff to
provide a "life-line" cheap rate for small consumers, with progressively
higher charges for large consumption; and the rate is the same fof smaller
centers 2/ as for Conakry, even though unit costs are higher in the
former. The tariff study proposed under the project was not carried out;
a study is however being commissioned as part of the preparation for a
possible second project.
D. Customer Arrears
5.15      Total arrears represent about eleven months billings but the
arrears of private consumers probably average much longer, since
Government and municipalities regularly paid for their own consumption
until 1985; this is not metered but is paid for on estimated consumption
in budgets approved at the beginning of each fiscal year. These budgets
represent for DEG the main cash flow to meet its operating expenses. Two
attem,ts had been made in 1981 and 1983 to clean up long-standing arrears
(more than one year old) but these actions were not followed by new
procedures to avoid future accumulation of unpaid bills. In general, due
to the absence of adequate means, enforcement of payment by delinquent
private customers was not energetically pursued, and the disappearance or
disrepair of many meters resulted in widespread charging on estimated
consumption.
E. Financial Covenants
5.16      Mention has already been made of DEG's performance indicators
which were not reported. Other covenants more administrative than
financial were agreed, yet not met or only partly met as shown in
Annex 1-1. A rate of return covenant was not proposed for this project,
and in any case It would never have been possible to test compliance; it
is not yet an appropriate covenant in the Guinean context where assets are
2/   Except in one center (Kankan) where the rate was arbitrarily increased
to Sylis 50/m3 in 1982, for no discernible reason.



- 17 -
not properly recorded and never revalued  3/ .  Instead a tariff covenant
was agreed, but this was ineffective (para 5.13).
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      Two Institutional units have been in charge of construction and
operation of the project facilities.
A. Project Unit (PU)
6.02      PU was created to assume responsibility for project execution
under its several aspects, technical and financial. It was managed by a
Director nominated by ministerial decree, and who was assisted by a local
team and foreign technical assistance.  As required, PU produced regular
technical reports on the works carried out. Their accounts were audited
and certified by independent auditors. In general, PU performed
competently and effectively.
B. DEC's Organization
6.03      DEG is in charge of operating and maintaining all the sector
infrastructures located in Conakry and the secondary centers throughout
the country. It will be apparent from preceding chapters that DEG's
performance has remained substandard from the outset. No serious
improvement has been observed during project implementation despite
assurances given during negotiations and repeated through supervision
missions such as:
(i)    minimizing the counterproductive effect of excess4ve
financial control from above; this was relaxed somewhat
in 1981, but, it must be admitted, without much impact on
DEG's performance;
(ii)   greater awareness by DEG of the importance of better
management and better operation and maintenance; and
(iii)  the need to provide sufficient funds and tools to improve
DEG's operation.
6.04      DEG has to seek approval by both MIE and the Ministry of State
Control of its operational expenses. DEG's inter-al organization has been
modified several times during 1978/1984 period which has undermined its
3/   The SAR proposed deferment of a rate of return target until after the
tariff study had been completed.



- 18 -
development. The biggest change, imposed in 19Q1 by Presidential Decree,
consisted in dividing DEC into four autonomous enterprises within the
capital city and In addition each secondary center became an autonomous
enterprise in charge of operating the water system. These sweeping
changes had not been agreed by the Bank which urged COG to re-establish
the previous situation and to improve DEG as envisaged by the project and
by the Credit Agreement. As a result, a new Decree issued in 1982
re-established DEG in its previous organization. However, despite
continuous advice and several procedural studies performed by auditors,
consultants and Bank staff, DEG has not addressed the recommendations
proposed. In general, DEG management does not play any part in
decision-making, which takes place at higher levels.
C. Staffing
6.05      The number of staff emploved by DEG increased from 280 at the
time of appraisal to 500 by the end of 1984 of which 60 were in senior
management, 60 in middle management and 380 labor force. The increase can
be partly attributed to circumstances bevond DEG's control whereby staff
without qualifications had to be taken into employment. In these
circumstances, it was impossible to set up a staff development plan.
Annex 4-3 shows that the number of staff per 1,000 connections in Conakry
was double the appraisal target; it was however lower than in 1978.
D. Training and Technical Assistance
6.06      A limited number of staff underwent training under the project
(33% of top management). The training program achieved was especially by
means of seminars and scholarships abroad which benefitted individual
staff with no management improvement within DEG. Two reasons could be
cited:
(i)    the training program envisaged in the SAR for
administrative and technical training and for
establishment of a small training unit was never
completely fulfilled; and
(ii'   lack of inducement for staff to apply their training;
poor salaries, absence of any sense of corporate
objectives, lack of incentives to improve efficiency, and
a desire for risk avoidance, all contributed to low staff
motivation.
6.07      The project provided for 17 man-years of technical assistance to
augment the managerial capability within DEG. The most significant
benefits derived from the technical assistance were in technical aspects
and day-to-day operatior,s providing tools and spare parts, and helping the
operating team to carry out works. Technical assistance participation in
day-to-day operations did have some transitory impact on staff motivation,
which however unfortunately disappeared after the end of technical
assistance contracts.



- 19 -
6.0-8     To improve institutional performance under a future project,
certain measures are considered imperative; these are outlined in the
chapter "Conclusions" (para 9.05).
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A. Project Benefits
7.01      The primary benefits of the water supply and drainage facilities
were identified at appraisal in general terms of improvement in health
resulting from an increased access of the Conakry population to safe water
(water supply component) and from the removal of contaminated water and
storm water (drainage and sanitation component).
7.02      In this latter respect, tangible results were obtained through
the project. Flooding of the low lying areas was reduced and the impact
of the lining of existing ditches on the operation of the drainage system
in Madina, Boussoura and Kouba was favourable. However, the
sustainability of those results will depend on continuous and proper
efforts to clean ditches (para 3.07).
7.03      It is estimated that, as a result of the project, about 165,000
people have benefitted from the investments at this point (para 4.04).
This fell short of the 300,000 people expected at appraisal. The
proportion of the population served directly through service connections
is approximately the same as expected (28%); however, because of the
limited number of new standpipes commissioned, a deterioration of the
quality of service to the population supplied by standpipes is evidenced
by the increasing average number of persons per standpipe, from 1,000 in
1978 to an estimated 2,800 at present.
7.04      The expected impact of the training and technical assistance
components has not materialized. A measure of their catalytic effects
should have been given by improvement in the collection rate, or increased
staff productivity. On those matters DEG's performance did not reveal any
progress.
B. Average Incremental Cost
7.05      The average incremental cost of water (AIC) was recalculated
(Annex 5-2) on the basis of actual investment costs and of a rough
estimate of the optional level of operating and maintenance costs. AIC is
now estimated at US$0.25/ms. If the shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 =
Sylis 35 assumed in the SAR was kept for the conversion into Guinean
currency, the latter figure would be comparable to the 1985 water rate of
Sylis 10/mr. But the comparison becomes meaningless at the prevailing



- 20 -
exchange rate of US$1.00 = Guinean Francs 350 4/ . Moreover, the billing
process is still being largely based on lump sum assessment of the
individual consumption, so that reliable sales statistics are lacking.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.06      The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the water supply
component of the project was calculated at 7% in the SAR, using DEG's
revenues as a proxy for benefits. Annex 5-1 provides the detailed
assumptions of the EIRR recalculation. The mainly theoretical rate of
Sylis 10/M3 has been retained as a measure of the willingness to pay of
the customers. As could be expected (and as was outlined in the SAR), che
EIRR is highly sensitive to the exchange rate. With t e rate assumed in
the SAR, the EIRR amounts to some 10%. If the current (and more
realistic) exchange rate were chosen, the incremental benefits would not
even cover the incremental operating and maintenance costs and the EIRR
would be negative. That outcome provides ample evidence for a water
tariff adjustment.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
A. Project Preparation and Objectives
8.01      From the beginning, the Bank perceived in the Guinean
environment difficulties for implementing the project successfully and
took steps to assure the achievement of the expected objectives. The Bank
was actively involved in the preparation of the Water Supply and
Sanitation project at all stages. The Bank maintained a firm position,
and obtained agreement from the Government on:
(i)    limiting the size of the project to meet Conakry's
immediate needs in water supply and sanitation;
(ii)   enhancing the institutional structure to become capable
of managing the project; and
(iii) relaxing the heavy administrative procedures in terms of
financial control and supply of resources.
8.02      In retrospect, it appears that the identification/preparation
and appraisal process focussed too much on the technical issues of the
project (e.g., least cost solution for water supply and drainage
4/   The Guinean Franc replaced the Syli as the Guinean currency unit in
January 1986.



- 21 -
expansion, procurement) and not enough on the institutional and
organizational issues. In this area also, a high level mission from IDA
tried unsuccessfully. However, significant changes in sector management
by modification of staff attitudes could have only been achieved through a
radical transformation of the political environment. The latter started
only in April 1984 when the new Government took over responsibilities.
With normalization of the economic situation, which is the first objective
of the new Government, improvement of sector management can now be
envisaged through a second water supply project currently under
preparation. Also addressing several subsectoral issues (water supply,
sewerage, drainage) under the same first project in Guinea, to be
implemented by various agencies, can now be judged as far too ambitious.
8.03      In retrospect it can also be seen that (in common  with manv
projects of that era) appraisal might well have been deferred until more
detailed designs were available, to permit firmer cost estimates; however,
in this case, there was no overall cost overrun, so that the estimates may
be judged to have been reasonably accurate. Similarly, demand projections
appear to have been realistic; the apparent shortfall in eventual sales
and the downturn in new connections were more than likely the result of
poor metering and the consequent availability of "free" water. However,
there were certain examples of imperfect preparation of the project (e.g.
inadequate site investigation of boreholes, poor appraisal of the issue of
water transmission line conveyance capacity) which also suggested that the
appraisal may have been premature.
B. Project scheduling
8.04      The date estimated for project completion proved to be
optimistic but would have been well within the required profile as
presently used. The delays which occurred were due to procurement
difficulties, an insufficient analysis of physical components and to
limited management capability. Consequently, the disbursement period was
longer and the closing date was postponed to enable the Government to use
Credit funds available for necessary works and studies.
C. Project Implementation
8.05      Because DEG and the Project Unit were fairly new and untried,
and in view of the peculiarities of the Guinean environment, project
implementation went slowly. In addition the measures requested by the
Bank to address the institutional deficiencies did not have the desired
immediate impact in project implementation.
8.06      The project was first classified as having major problems of
management and political concern, in the supervision report of November
1981, though "moderate" problems had been frequently noted previously.
Numerous special covenants had been included In the Credit Agreement, but
in view of the financial problems of the country in general, and the DEG
in particular and of the latter's managerial shortcomings, it might appear
that the number of covenants (27) and the content of some of them were



- 22 -
overly ambitious from the beginning. However, a review of these does not
disclose any which were not important and necessary for sound project
implementation. Most of the covenants covering project reporting and
financial reporting (monitoring indicators) were not complied with. In
retrospect fewer and more carefully considered covenants, limited to the
key operating, financial and institutional issues might perhaps have
facilitated project implementation and project supervision; however,
identification of the financial risks resulting from weaknesses in Guinean
procedures and ptoject risks resulting from institutional weaknesses
dictated a coaprehensive set of loan covenants to try to ensure even
minimal resuits after project implementation. At least, they served to
draw the attointion of the project agencies to the importance of the
actions concerAed.
D. Supervision
8.07      There were 17 Bank supervision missions (including one
completion mission) during project implementation from January 1979 to
December 1985. Most of them consisted of one or two staff. The more
frequent ones were undertaken during 1980, 1981 and 1982, the heaviest
period of construction. Projects division staff focussed predominantly on
institutional and financial aspects, though with minimal effects. The
managerial inertia inherent in the rigid administrative climate at that
time appears to have constituted something of an insurmountable obstacle.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      The physical components of the project have mostly been
successfully completed. As a result Conakry has increased its water
production, transmission end storage capacity. However, that result
remains below project expectations. Having regard to the constraints
imposed by the economic and administrative ideology then obtaining, the
project outcome could be judged as marginally satisfactory in the areas of
building new Installations, and increasing the percentage of population
served with potable water.
9.02      The management and institutional improvement envisioned as the
most important component of the project was not achieved. Political and
economic factors within Guinea were responsible, in large measure, for the
failure of these components to meet objectives. Even more significant,
the inadequate support to DEG from MIE and the Ministry of State Control
in this respect and the lack of enthusiasm within DEG were additional
factors in failing to achieve the goal.
9.03      Low employee morale and lack of motivation continue to prevail
throughout DEG, leading r* an underutilized work force, while normal
operating requirements such as preventive maintenance are ignored.
Inadequate financial management and internal control lead to serious



- 23 -
deficiencies, reflected especially in weaknesses of the billing and
collection system, compounded by countrywide shortage of financial
resources.
9.04      At the moment, there is immediate need for a program of
technical assistance and strong institutional reform to prevent deterio-
ration of the physical system and to develop an Institution which meets
the water supply needs of Conakry's very rapidly growing population.
Changes of political power in Guinea and the strong willingness of the new
Government to improve institutional weaknesses and poor financial systems
make it possible to meet such a challenge.
9.05      Based on experience with the first project, institutional reform
to strengthen the sector's financial capability and promote improved
systems, would be the predominant components proposed in preparing a new
project. The lessons learned from this project are conducive to leading
the sector institutions to operational effectiveness, self-sufficiency and
financial viability through the second project. These lessons suggest the
following measures to be desirable:
(i)    Though ideally one authority should be responsible for
both construction and operation, DEG is not at present
competent to carry out both tasks and in any case needs
substantial reinforcement in the form of personnel,
resources and equipment to carry out any task at all;
(ii)   The responslble authority should not be subject to
detailed control or interference from above; instead, GOG
should judge the water authority on its performance of
assigned responsibilities, and not seek to interfere in
day-to-day management;
(iii)  In return, the water authority must accept responsibility
for its performance in the fields of operation and
maintenance; metering, billing and collection; internal
control systems and accounting procedures. In
particular, it needs a comprehensive and reliable
accounting system on commercial lines, to provide
dependable accounts for the whole spectrum of water
supply operation;
(iv)   Though substantial technical assistance will still be
needed, it is clear from experience under this project
that this will almost certainly again be fruitless unless
accompanied by a radical reshaping of institutional
responsibilities. In the opinion of projects staff
concerned with the Guinean water supply sector, the
continuing shortcomings of the latter can be remedied
most successfully by a more commercial and
entrepreneurial approach, preferably by a degree of
privatization. A possible scenario in this direction



- 24 -
would envisage the whole apparatus of operation,
maintenance and consumer billing and collection being
sub-contracted to a private sector company, preferably
wit's the participation of an experienced water utility
from overseas. Such a company would have freedom to
hire, fire and recompense its staff, levy tariffs under
an agreed formula, and receive a remuneration linked to
performance. DEC or its successor authority would,
subject to satisfactory reinforcement in personnel, have
responsibility for general sector planning and investment
as a national water company. These recommendations are
consistent with those proposed by the sector organization
study.



- 25 -
ARM 1-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF WIF
aKRY  WATER SlPPLY AND SAN1TATION PRBECT (CR.87(1{11)
PYm.rr aE1zUN REPRi
SUMWIARY OF OCQ  ANT     - (REDIT ACREFN
SE M4ON                  (TWMA1'T                       MFr PARIIN  NCT   (XtffNM
MEr    T
2.02 (c)  Opeing of a Foreign EXchange Acccunt in BFXY.   X                on 04/13/79
(for spare part.s and chenicals).
3.01 (b)  Provision for expenditure orn accout           x                 Iblfilled as project needed
project cm-ilted quarterlv in advance to
"Credit National".
3.(01 (c)  Review perfonwince DFG's improvement plan           X           No report furnished, review
perfomnce during
(June and December).                                            Superision Mission
3.02 (b)  Eiplovmant of 3 expatriate technlicians as                       Fxpatriate technician
Advisor-s to the project unit staff.           X                 employed from 04/13/79 until
the end of the Project 06/85
3.03      Tnprovenent of sanitation conditions                       X    To be carrled out by Ministry
(a) sealing off of private wells;                               of Health, not implenented
(b) enact-nit and enforeenet of nppropriate                     because not equipped to carry
legislation                                                  out this task.
3.04 (a)  Management of drainage activities within RAC
(a) nmintaining qualifiedl and experiance staff;    X           Vey staff 1981
(b) to set up and nwintain account & records;              X    No inplenintation
(c) to operate and neintain equipnent.                     X    No iplementation
3.04 (b)  Submdssion of arnual hudget of RAC                   X
3.05 (a)  Submission of a feasibility stutd on the                         Executed under (ICCE financing
rehabilitation and replacement of the (Grands                   Financed by C(XE
Chutes Daam.                                 x
3.06 (a)  (crant to DEC, a global licence for the       X                  Domne with delay.
inportation of spare parts and chemicals, to
open Letter of Credit.



- 26 -                                  ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 2
REJBIC OF GJINEA
O1AKRY  n    SlPPLY AND    TfTATIN PKUELr (CR.870-aff)
PPnEr aX wi N REPOr
SURWY OF C  ENA1l  -  CREDIT KGER4W
I% M, ON               ONEKaNM                         Tr PATMY  Ngr oCI"M
3.10 (b)  Maintainirg records and procedures adequate             X            Done by Project Unit. No input
to prepare quarterlv report an project                              or report from DEG.
4.01 (d)  Maintain separate pro-fornm account for                        X    Not achieved
both water supply and sewerage and for debt.
4.02      Audit 6 months after FY starting 1979             X                  Ahdit achieved from 1979 to
1984.
4.03      To take out and nnintain insurance                             X     Not relevant In (bunean
against riskAs.                                                     context (imuture insurance
irdustry).
4.04 (a)  Tariff study.                                                  X    Not achieved
4.04 (b) DBG's water tariff to be maintained at a
level to cover DEV's operation expenses
plus Depreciation or Debt services.                           X     100% increase in 1979
25% increase in 1981
No further increase thereafter
4.05      No water sLpplv and sewerage investment in                           Respected until 1981
exceris of 1U$1 udllion.                               X            Important lnvestmet  inder
bilatetal Aid Macenta -
Fcrecariah
4.06 (b)  Availability to IDA of
(a) approved operating and investment           X
budget;
(b) quarterly report including technical                     X    No report from DEM
and financial onitoring indicators.
4.06 (b)  Availability bv borrower funds to meet           X
the requirement of the investment programn
as reeded
4.07       Borrazr shall cause DFG to mm9age its                         X     Gzeat interference of Govt.
affairs in adequate nmbers and experienced                          authorities in DBE's manage-
staff in accordance with appropriate                                net. Very low/or rmedstant
administrative and financial public utility                         accountabilitv within DEG's
practices.                                                          mmagemnt.



- 27 -                                 ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 4
REPIELIC OF GUThEA
(IAK   WA~Th SUPPLY AlN) SANITACN PRIT     (CR. 870-GI)
~ a1ps
PLANN) DF.KhXDM                                  MI s
PART A - Wt    SUPLY
(i)   Drilling of seven boreholes in Bassla       Yes              Yield is 1/3 oly of the expected
and Kakdnba.                                                 production
(ii)  Installation of booster station with        Yes
pump and 1.8 km long raw vter
tranadssion pipeline of 400 mm dater
to the Kaloum treatrent plant and
storape site.
(iii)  Construction of a 5000 n? reservoir at     Yes              Operation of the treatnmit facilities
the Kaloum site, and of a treatenEt                         still difficult.
facility (chlmlination, pH adjustment).
(iv)  Construction of a 5000 n3 reservoir next   No                Cancelled because of ftuds shortage and
to the existing Bellevue reservoir.                         because it  as not really needed.
(v)   Purchase and installation of booster        Nb               Replaced by a nich cheaper clewnin  of
pumps at Yessoulou totalling 500 l/s                        the treated uster transission line.
to increase the trazinitting capacity
frt  330 l/s to 500 l/s.
(vi)  Rehablitation of the existing              Partly           Cleaning at Giands Chutes raw water pipe
pre-treatennt plant at the Grands Chutes                     and the Yessoulou tranaisslon line
dam; reabilitation of raw uater                              carried out with great impact; and the
and treated water tranmission                               Yessoulou treatment plant has been
pipelines fron Yessoulou and Kadouium                        rehabilitated.
to Conakry.
(vli)  Supply and laying of  na distribution      Yes
along dIstributian routes close to the
resereoirs of Beflevue and Kaloum.
(0.7 k of 700 mm diameter, 2.7 km of
600 m  diameter, 1.9 km of 500 mn diaeter
and 2 km of 400 mm ad waller dianeter).



- 28 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 4
REPUELIC OF aJlINA
1AKW? WAJER SUPPLY AND SNTAC PRPFXT (CR. 870-I)
PRQJBLr =XNs
PLAED                          LrED             W44S
(viii) Supply and laying of about 10O kn of      Partly           90 km executed, 73 of %fbich are extensions
distribution pipe (100 to 60 nm dianeter)                  and 17 km are replace}wnt.
(ix)  Installation of some 160 standpipe-s       Partly           65 out of 160 executed but not connected.
(x)   Supply of about 4500 water meters and      Partly           Material purchased for 3000
material for 4000 new connections.                         connections.  1740 new connections
executed - meters not read.
(xi)  Ccnstruction and equipmnt
-   Offices;                              Yes
-   Houses at Aviation and Yessoulou       Yes
-   Training space                        No
(xii)  Procurement of miscellareusna equipuet    Yes              EXecuted under various contracts.
to assist DEG in its day-to-day
operation and work by force account.
PART B - DRAINAGE AND SANITATICN
{i)   Clearing, rehabilitation and cleaning      Partly executed.
drainage ditches.
(ii)  Backfilling and protecting zones           Partly executed.
subject to continOus flooding.
(iii)  Coberting and extending the existing      Partly           5 kin out of 9 km executed. Good result.
system of unlined ditches to concrete
drainage canal in Madina, Boussoura,
}oba.
(iv)  Proiding vhicles and equipmet to           Executed
RAC s technical services to inprve
nminteance of the draina   netwo*.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CUIE
OUA      WATER SUPPLY AND SANIIX'N PROJECT (CR. 870-tLI)
~~~~PRL                     CDTNNS
PLANND                         E(KU1EC 4IM
(v)   Purcasling additioaal chemicals and smll  Partly             Treatmont of wells partly executed
vehicles to strengthm the capability                        chemicals not distributed
of Ministry of Health for well inspection                   Control very limited.
and disinfection.
(vi)  Construction of about 10 sanitary blocks.  Partly            2 out of 10 executed.
PART C - SI1NGlIlIENG OF DPX
(i)   Replenishrent of the stock of spare parts  Yes
and chemicals.
(ii)  A program of lnroveowat of DEC's           Yes              Cbnsultancy services provided without
customers' file system, meter reading,                      any significant result.
biUing, collecting and disconnecting
practices.
(iii)  Improvement of DEG's operation and         Yes             Results attained with assistance of
mainteane practices.                                        Technical Assistance team.
(iv)  A training program for DEG's labor          Partly          No significant impact. Training and
forces and technicians, establisbment                       seminars abroad were the main actions
of a training unit, program  of                             achieved.
fellowships abroad in various disciplines
and traning through apprenticeships and
seminars abroad.
(v)   Plan for the improvement of DBG's           No              Audits financed from 1979 to 1984 with
mmnagerlal and financial efficiency.                        tangible impact from 1983 (Manuel des
procedures). Replaced by an institu-
tional study.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 4 of 4
REPULIC OF GJIWA
MXIKRWAS SUPPLY AND SAN CN PRQJBf (CR. 870-JI)
vRwr a34ws
PART D - STUDIES
(i)   Availability of grotd water resmnces.    Yes
(ii)  Feasibility of water supply systens in  Yes
seven secondary centers.
(iii) Matket for Alumia sub-products.         No      )
)
(iv)  Marketing and orgwizational arrangemits  No     )
for a PVC pipe unfacturing unit.                )       Found not to be practicable
)
(v)   Ways of assisting and proiting local    No      )
eonstructicn Industry.                          )
Not Initially Plamned
1. Feasibility of Coakry Water
Supply Expansion
2. Restructuring of the Water
Supply Sector



- 31 -
ARM 2
REPULIC OF GUIWA
ICRY  WT SUPPLY AND SAN[TACIG P!M)JBZT (CR. 870-aYI)
PRWFCr 0IPLlltC REPORT
PRD COSr F       lN PLA
Estimate (US$ million)        Actual (US$ mulIle)
MA  AFDB  0YT   UL TDA  ADB  GM   MM
1. wter  ly
- Investiments                  5.A   6.0   2.4   13.7        4.8   4.7   2.8   12.3
- Techniml Assistance &
TrainIng                      2.3     -   0.1    2.4        2.3     -   0.1    2.4
Sb-Total                    7.6   6.0   2.5   16.1       7.1   4.7 _        14.7
2. Sanitation                        2.3     -   0.9    3.2       1.7      -  0.8    2.5
3.  hvisi                            1.1     -     -    1.1       2.3      -  0.9    3.2
3. Sector Studies                    1.5     _   _       1.5      1.4      -  0.1    1.5
Total                      12.5   6.0   3.4   21.9       12.5    4.7  4.7   21.9
F-   =    = _                     =    = _



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
REPUELC OF  UMa
(X*NAKRY WATER SUPPLY AN) SANTTATIN PRJBCT (CR. 870-GI)
PROJBr OLITION REPRTR
PRBC Dr 
-Appraisal (million)-             -Actual (million)
TOTAL                              TOML
Co,nQonents                               US$      UC      SY    US$        US$       UC      SY    US$
Boreboles & Equipment                      -    0.925   1.220   1.171        -    1.815  12.172   2.470
Equipment for Varius Stations              -    1.546   0.340   0.694        -    0.044   0.045   0.049
Laying & Supply of TrUnk Mbins             -    1.137   7.500   1.715        -    1.349   3.131   1.570
Wkbrk9Op Tools & Vehicles                  -    0.437   0.320   0.541     0.350   0.305      -     0.673
Installation of Teleconirnication         -    0.016   0.115   0.025         -    0.064   0.070   0.070
Construction of Reservoirs              0.390   0.492   8.530   1.413     0.256   0.840  16.307   1.879
aUying & Supplying Sec. Mains           2.787    -    14.780   3.526       1.798    -    12.922   2.379
Rehabilitation Wbrks                                                      0.530      -     5.567   0.780
Building Wbrks                          0.292    -      1.420   0.363     0.788   0.063   9.111   1.264
Sanitation & Drainage                   1.560     -    12.045   2.161     1.730     -    16.485   2.471
Training & Technical Assistance         1.895     -     1.400   1.965     2.278     -      2.624   2.396
SpWervision                             1.000    -        -     1.000     2.314     -    19.496   3.192
Studies                                 1.410     -       -     1.410     1.386    -       2.445   1.496
Working Capital                         0.600     -       -     0.600      1,048     -     3.040   1.185
9.934   3.553  47.670  16.584    12.478   4.480 103.415  21.874
=            _                           -  _- _=_
Physical Contingencies                  0,853   0,429   6,007   1,668                                -
Price Contingencies                     1,713   1,018  14,420   3,653       -       -        -       -
Total                             12,500   5,000  68,097 21,905    12,478   4,480 103,415  21,874
1/ E a     Rate as of Deceffber 1985
US$1.00 = Sylis 22.24      1 Syli =  US$0.044964
US$1.00 = 0.94393 UC       1 UC    -  US$1.05940



-  33-                                                                      ANN4L( 4-1
REPURLIr O EEJsEA                                                              Pag         Iof  2
FIRSI #ATER SUPPLI PROJECT
DES - INCUN   S'ATEI3ENX - SKLIS *113201t-
3978       1978       19'9        JQ'9       3980       3980        1981       3981       3982       1982        3983       1983       3984        3984
ACTUAL   FORECAST     ACTUAL   FORECAST      AC'UAL   FORE CAST    ACTt3AI   FORECAST     ACTUAL   FORECAST      ACTUAL   FORECAST     ACTUAL.  FORECAST
KNE toNNECTIONS 8ATf 5
MATED CONNECT10ONS AS OF DEC.311                  8101.00    1800.06   11716.0  O VY20.     9616.00    98R*. 0    113'6.00   1403:. 0   1:5'6.00   1452!.00   34226.00   34806.00   36026.00
WATER PROD.,N3LL.113.                    10.9t.     371.34      32..b      I3. 30     33. 3v      33.99      i2..0      35.44      133'-0      14.48      13.50      19.45      37.51       39.74
EFF3C1ENCV t                             6!.14      6.6)7      5s05        6.0~       69.03       'o.:       $9         '.q        62.880      74.$4      78.52      '6.33      v..82       '7.2
WATER SOLD, NIIIL.N13.                    7.30       8.74        '.30       9.1        I.8.       9,91        8.3',     13.71       8.30l      37.30      30.60      14.08      33.00       35.215
DES TARIFF, SYLISN!M                      5.58       hA;l       e.03.       8. 00      so: 04       . 0       8.83      1".0        30.0 3t 0.00          3 0.0      32.01,0    30.00      I12.00i
WATER SALES                              39.60      49,Sv      56.00       71.4(.     '.0         '8.50      '31. 40   332.90      04.0(,    13.00       323 1. IV   3o8. 0    328.00      183.00
MARES INVOICEO - WATER                    3.96       4.#0        0.90(      4.50       3,90       S. .'0      4. 40      5. 90       2.80 Ok     .40       3.00       a.810       4.00       7.30
TOTAL REVENUES                        43.50      54,40      57.",k      II. 90     75.50      63.50      '5.80l    339.7        90,80      129,40     124.00     3'S.'0     337.00      390.30
EXPENSES
E3PLOYEES                                14.90      13.210      16.00      14.40      19.4t.     lo.50       24.30      38.80      22.00       2-J.50     26.0ki     22.30      29.00       73.00
C3IENICAJ.S                               2.00       5.30        3.00       6.30       4.00        '.00       5.00       8.70       :.oo       1 0. 0c     5.4       3 12.00     4.00       13.70
ELECIPICITY                                         30.40                  33.80                  30.90                214.50                  76.70                 33.210                 35.20
OIL OUR
SERICES                                 13340        5.70       15,7.%      8. 00     13.9         8.80      7,310       9.90      321. 40)    33. 0      45.00      33.50      60.00       14.90
TAXES                                     1.2f'                 1.2v                   3.30                   3.2v                  3.06                   7.00                  2.00
CASN  OPM. EX3t.                         33.50      3460        35.90      42.30      38.60      49.20       58.60      61.,Q      57.40       0.8.0      '8.00      18.80      95.00       87..0
RECEIYAILES PROISION                                                                                                                                      43.00                   3.00
DEPREC3AT3ON                             .29. v     31.00     219.00)      371.40     29.80,     3'.270      30.50      46.40      11.0       55.40       36.00      57.60      47.00       58.30
TOTAL OPERA71NS EXPENSES              60.60      85.60      64.9       '4.'0       60.4.)     84.40      8'.10      308.30      99.30,    323.60      155.00     336.40     143.00      345.70
IIPERATIND XNCII                        -3'.30     -33.210      -7.20       3.710      7.30t     -2.90      -32,30      10t. 40       se5.      5.80     -33.00      39.30      -6.00       44.60
oTiER INCOEE                                                                                                                                              24.00                  1.00
OTHE  EIPENSS                                                                          2.3t'                 50.50                                        36.00                 33.00
ICEONE REFOl  INTEREST                 -37.10      -31.2.0     -7,20       11.70       4.80      -2.90     -63.80       30.40       7. 50      5.80      -23.00      39.30     -38.00      44.60
iNlTERET                                  0.00I                0i.00c       3. .0      0.00      36.3IC       0.0I0c    29.30       0.00      30.80        0.00      28.9        0.00      26.70
Nf89INO  EREST DURINS CDNIRIJTION.
INTERET DOIASED TO OPERTIONS              0.00       0.00       0.00        3.60       0.00      36.30       C.00       2 9.00      0.00C     30.80        0.00a     28.90       0.00      26.70
INTII  EFERE PR0111 TAXES               -3.0       -13.210     -7.210      -0.40       4.80     -29.20      -63.80     -38.60       7.50     -25.00      -23.00      10.40     -38.00       17.90
c38pERTI3H3 TAXES                                                                                                                                                        3                      6
WET INCONCE                          -37.30     -23.20      -7.70o      -0).40      4.80     -39.210     -61.80     -38.60       7.50     215.00      -23.00       7.00     -38.00       12.00



- 54 -
wimic 9 oliuAANE41
01891 60110 SWPL  pRoECT                                           Paso  2 of 2
K- BALANCE  SHEEt     - SILtS mitia-
1970      1978       1971      I479       1910       i9a0       1991      1981       1982      198        1,93        M98      1`94       1984
ACTUAL  OUtCAST    ACTUAL  FOSCAST    ACTUAL  FOUCAST    ACTUAL  OUtCAS              ACTUAL  FORECAST    ACTUAL  FOREAS        ACMok  fOREAS
5805  FlIED ASSETS IN OKERATItN      407,70    049.60      379.20    b49.60    356 30    733.20      327.90    1017.90    297.40)   1141.10    424.00    1162.10    613.00    1162.10
ACCIULRATED DEPRECIATION               0.00    164.70        0.00    191.10       0.00    2.34.30      0.00    200.70       0.00     336,10       0.00    393.70       0.00    451.100
NET FIIEB ASSETS IN OPERATION      407.70    484.90      319.70    452.5.0    35o.30    491.90     3217.90    '37.20    .297.40    80.00      o26.00    768.40    613.00      710.30
FIXED ASSETS MgIE  COITRIJCTION        0.00                 0.00      83.40     .51.I0   2184.70   2.51.2.0    121.20    280.2 2' 11.00          28.00                 8.00
OmlE ASSETS
TOTAL FlIED ASSETS                 407.10    484.90      379.20    53..10    607.40      781.60    579.10    860.40    577.40    826.00    654.00    768.40    621.00    710. 30
CURRNT ASSTS
IwwNVET                                6.80       1.00      9.60       7.40      13.50      8.00      19.20      61.10     38.40      12.210    26.00      64.40      64.00     16.30
CIISTOMIR RECE1VAOLES                 20.80      19.50      52.50     31.10      91.40      29.40     62.40      $1.40     46,00      45.20     03.00      60,60     624-00     65.50
RESERV  F91 CUST. RECEIV.                                                                                                                        44.00                42.00
OTHE CEMET ASSETS                                                                                                            o.oo                 6.00                 6.00
CASH6 A 866                             1.00      t.60       0.50       1.00      0.70      21.00      8.70       2.20      121.60     2.40      MO.O       2.60       4.00      2.80
ToTAL. CORNll ASSETS                36,60      20.10     62,60      42.10    161,40       39,.40    90.3 5o 4.70    167.20          59.80     84.00      77.60    101.00      64.60
TOTAL ASSES                        444.3A    563.00    446.80    579.40    714,.4(       MN.O       W.40      965.10    694,.87    885.40    '38.00    846.00    722. 00    79.90
*SSSSSS    *525    ... ......*......  .......   .......555*8                   .... 3  *8*5.   ......2    .**5...    .......353
ESIITY A6 LIABILITIES
CAPITAL                                                      0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                  0.00                 0.00
ISMIDIES                             444.30    507.60      441.80    490.50    769.00      561.10    674.40     512.30    646.50    490.20      717,00    472.40     718.00    449.90
RETAINED EARINSI                                             0.00                 0.00               -62.00                *69,90              -144.00              -l83.00
RESEKVS                                                                           0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     54.00       0.00      60.00      0.00
TOTAL. EQU1TY                      444.30    507.60      441.80    490.50    719.00     511.80    664.40    5612. 10    536.64    490.20    627.00    472.40    595.0        449.90
LII TERN DEBT                          0.00       0.00       0.00     13.50       0.00    303.00       0.00    392.00       0.00    381.70       0.00    359.40        0.00    320t0
BEST INANSERED                     0.00                  0.00                 0.00     140.00      0.00    126.00       0.001    112.00      0.00      90.00       0.00     84.00
IDA                                0.00                 0.00      36.80       0.00     79.50       0.00     143.10      0.00     159.0       0.00    159.00        0.00    151.90
Anl                                0.00                  0.00     46.10       0.00      83,50      0.00    122.90       0.00     112.70       0.00    102.40       0.00     92.20
.---       ...        ...        ...       ...        ...       ...        ...        ...       ---        ---        ---
TOTAL ENITY & L.T.DE8T             444.30    "17.60      441.80    572.00     719.00    814.80    614.40      904.30    536.60    813.90      627.00    831.80    595.00    778.00
SORPIERI
0011  DEOSITS
Omi  TEN DEBT                                                                                                               Y.40                 0.00                  0.00
IDA
AnS
SUE                                                                                                                        97.20                 99.00               107.00
OmlE                                              5.40      0.00       7.00       0.00      8.20      55.00      10.80     61.00      I1.90      12.00     64.20      20.00     66.90
..~~~~~- -   ----..... ..                                        .....   ...   ...   ...
TOAt C13111 LIA8JLTTIES              0.00       5.40      0,00       7.00       0.00      0.20      55. 00     60.00    15820       I1.9      11 1.00    14.20    127.00      16.90
TUtU. EQUITY & L.IABILITES         444.30    513.00    441.00    579.0        719.00    021.00    669.40      915.10    694.80    88.80    73.00    &i6.00         72.00    194.90
0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
COWMB  RATIO                            EnR       5.20       ER        6.13        ER       4.00       1.6        5.06      0.74       5.03       0.76      5.46       0.00      5.01
UPB I OF TOTAL. CAPITALIZER            0.00       0.00      0.00       0.13       0.00      0.37       0.00       0.43      0.00       0.44       0.00      0.43       0.00      0.42
RAT OF REMR
AAC.EL1SO1 DAILY 8ASIS               241.66     130.84    332.16    157.90      470.87     128.51    300.47    127.30    248.06    127.50       244.31    625.89     33.36      125.63
OFT Am"ET I L.T.DOT                    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.14       0.00      0.39       0.00       0.46      0.00       0.46       0.00      0.47       0.00      0.46



h11         ft 41-      It           t1 0  U  0-to9I 565                60          595 1       1-55-       t ISO       II'sl         315*       I  iSt'*1-                  aaUMSal  1s   I023  Sul"hI
$V S1-            to          t  11,      *St -       it #        91 P5            1       i*         to' 1I      to100   355-   1         i9    119       -                 111113113n113
to,I        0              I tie    I9         tis 1         s 11        ts I        isI    ~it 11          1e          itsI        t  I9        of5 I       115                                01&lImINM1
19511l                  $i ill-                 *6i6tlI 69 - $S                                    1-                   93 11                   31 61-                         1311359  023913
011111111111111113
999'?.-                 t 19 - 11                  f-1                  66 t6-                  il                      W 915                   S1I  il*                               3)021 3311 i
955         R ll 15111 95           i66 -,       f          it9 696     $0 1         t5 161-    ce          ii1,        111          o iso1sIe se                                    saINM          m  muun
msaw"m ommm
1111I       $55         95          to n-       of $t-      It 9-        f 11,      61 16-      1t6-        9::         0 OIl       It  S,it l-              It &I,                             =of3 An3
o ~~~~~~tazu umuuoou
IS 51       111111-     Si SI       itst        4  Set:-    ii 91'      of It,      65 11-      91 it,       t I        it  -       oil,         Of It-      #11 it,211 11101  nun*1  3302
9151        t    s       tIt        11 1        o 15ff      it3 03  506  6)1        Ls 163      fill        931         09 3         ts4         $1111       of 505          US1131U006031333 1usuI
UWIWIOI 331SIVA13)32 3WI3
551         153IS it     6s1i       151 St      o5I9o53$04                          0t I9t3SIll 163) 59                 of1 91      oil                      It5                                     13u3ual
S1Sii       "it         It it16     Sis t-      OCt    ot9I3            i Sit       t55 of      561-        itI       ii             it1 15      St It-      II1 it-3want3SamtuhZi
SIt't                   to P                                             tIsi                                                                                                       aumi maus
ofi to       Si -       of1it       CIIt  t     t   St 911              5151I         it,I    96 t            ot        I 5,  93     51'         i SIt-      SIll-                           2331311113I330a
itsit       9OSS1       so1  5ifost             S1 il l           s     I  tot1  h     to  St  is6          St to       i St  t Si9 11           SI          o  $11                              NOiLYillIflsst
Is  i 001          i         ot         t   t       P   I             k     t 551  551 It            of3 Ct      i           II It       tStit                                                   13391VUV"
it  o       i Si       loll         l 9939     ni           S it       ItIt llt                $            it91  is 5it 558        1131         fot        i 5sill                                 a     1332133
lot                           lotII                   to i        9           iti         59          It 9I 31                 ISiII                                                        111I51Ulu
013         051 Sol   l             55It Ist    SCSit       i 5 t       it5         90fi         f           t  i       to 1 00  Il 59  5          It        fill                                    1123133
it1 it        Ll        it  tIt                                         t1 00  SI @0  lii?    5591        Sfl ill                              it91  Il    06*                                    521011
to Il       00 i         f5          t 1#   f               itt          f1 9of1 It             IsI i9      it3 it 559  0f0         is 161       It  t       o itt                       1091113 111201
0it39I    90 91         99I9331w0                            s          I           it 11  1913  s111 90391of01  I996i093   9916     Si90 I      09 Ill      OIll 230  101   53                   101133I =5 
111 Ill  of Ott  16 Ott  to itt  of iti  11 ot  to tit  61 it  of it  it ti  it 91     to ft3311is                                                011it0002ULM
111330  196)  112131    9069  19)301 11W  19)301    906?  112901 29?   11)301 11*21              19330    116)
9061         96 1         95fit i    t  sI    is 1  1.1    3091       # 91 it          99I1     f  o9f1  Il           6t    6 I61t 1              916 I0t661lialiiu 
tt It  #1 it  I   it  of tt  Ittt        to             " it I   3it          t 11361   3103     110.oft                      $   t       Ii                            m  lsIt"o
CiI    itJO         I    t      61i          f  *1It It             to            10 * It    S931 it   14 13t1t1                            t i    t      tt                                      I 1
It4    si         stm II      i                                                    1131 I    i it9  f 11   10t 3 19*11:I   tt   ft          gt          6I                                lo     mIV
tootft ifflo    t   ttt    s  ttt #1liit o   til    t    til    0  ot    f  il      i    #1     o   Mt      SI1111l     itlo#                          t- CC     f -3=             "i



it'           48 1  1-       1n   t         i   I         6n   4         to t           U    *         i   9t-        II t           9 *l          9 U           941t-          U I  i     Iti i96          61t11i  UI RtNIA Mal 1119432 1 0o
gtt l          1          I                 It I           II I  l t I           t       t   Z    I    tt 1-          Itl t         tlit           it I           U    *         m              it itl                        IAO1  U3lAEtS  me
l't           lo             it nt          of l  tt                    UI   tl         It t           Uto                             |          l I It    it  I oi  i             I III      l tIml                                               IIS t
....... ......... _.........   ........... ....... ........ .........    ........... .........    ........... .... .... .    .........    ........... .........    .......... ...................... ...................... ........ ...
II'            W1            to t           4199 tl        It  t           9 I          it t           48             it I            1t I         o   I          to             is I           it I                          M L JO simingNM
t    W*        It I s            t          it  I          it             It I          t    I          t  I 6l I                    t  I          it   .         It  lI s 69 .1                                            9s 11a       fs NSZ
to U                         to l              It          #1 it                        U# It                         ofS I of9I                                                          iIttCISI
U-It t-                      of t-                         IS  t                        11  61 iS tt                                                t  I-                        is49 U1 Si                                                         UtM
ip I          of ts          to I           is it               tI       it It               tot       of Ott         es itt         is to         is CL          1    it        it I           of a                                      amlW         1U
,,,_........... .........   ........... ---------  .......... ............... .........   .........   ..........  ...............   -----    .......... ...   .........   .. .... .........................
U611 t                                                      8s 8I8to I                                                9 ot8 it 0  It                 $                                                               S99119o6660 6
to                 t         to                 tt         it It             t1t        to it          6st            8 9           6  98         86                                                                     6  111ofI1 4U
of is                        of ft               SI        111 o           t   tt       1# It          DIl to         to ItS        of it         #    tti                                                               Vl D9
am
It t8         66 t81-        68  t          69 Li,         IV    -       61 to.         66  Itl-       o      -  6. it  9tt-         to It,        it   t-         1 8t         I   416       66  tt-                              011191  31 01
it I          of  U          Ito I          of to          It it         St Ui          It  ttt        ofS t    Itt   U     t        i  t it 11II    t tl         tl It          It Sit        19 It                 IILUIDGU3I l Lt,11l 1Um
..... .......... .........   .........  ........... ... .. ... .   .........   ........ .......   ..... ....... .......... ...               .     .. .......... .........   ---------. ....... I..... -.... .. ..
to                                                                                          t tS  11 t  1tt1 t                                     is             8419 ttl       I9 *t                SllllWSlAA199I9                 am
is ik                        11 I                          00 I                         so  tt1        0l lW           0  s                        of I                          of I                              noa31Za>f"
816819061192Z 1919412
681           9 t                           toO 98        4    I9        6t   s 6 9tt 69 f                           OL ti9         of t           6  1t to        f   t            8t I 98 
.     ...........  ......
It It         tt  t          It tt          if tl          of St          60 t;         0  ti          L              i $Itt t                      It ts  I                     of 0           it I                                              n
to it         1t  it         it It          is S           00   1         it t          it  I          it I           it S          tS  I          IL I            fis I                                                                             tfft
8  it         t9  t9         it        o11        I        It t          I6             i 9            68             891 t          1    t        it I           WI                                                                                 "0I
13AUS Lou
69            9 t 9 tt-      6t             9869-          66            98             8 19 t         9l 8           6    -         1 6t ?t-       89 t         9 4  t         t 9-          6t    I                   1stI22I62V    18 tlS 99s9-11
sutn Ot11 10 An
8 It4                         1S  t        8 9t t         8 9t           88   9t         1            81 9t It-      6 1t  9t 89 t                  19 tt        81  It         86 41         889                           199661199111III1
891             8 t 4 tb     6t )s          86  t          61 tS          tI tt         I) t           916            89 6t  t6t    81 9t               9 it      i9 6t          66 9t          69 6t                                       N091i19 30
6988         t9 It            6t 9t         61 6t           6 1      t  89              8 811          9 8t-                t-       It            9 It t         8t 9 -          t 699         11-                           *s1 S111 1910J31 n021
sm696   lt           10 110919J 19181
..... ....... ......... ........    ......... ........    ......... ........    ........    ......... ........    ...... .. ------.   ...... .. . ... .......... ........... ...
&SS112101    l19 2 .         11920101    14                1*932N04       M MlU t       *t31Wt01    1l9       t U2t1ll2OJ    1t931                  St31109    19632             IS31W01        M1 U
8669         8649          t9lt            t1lt          t166           1869          1991           1961           1614            1141 9         t6           6469         l69t            flit
-   10 I919  St9U1     -  S19191 i0 6110101419  I 9 36 608  - 601.
1I)R1d 11499S 61IA 1169J
0 2891996 10 311tNI4I
Z-'_ 9C                                                                                       _



8388         $I1)          i 988 118     888          48toto,        IL 4318     884           to3          1181 o            011It It1               to8          888o          a8                           13an8I1I111sum   .I1
mu   VIA 3  123 J0 SLI
U,    144-          U8114         i  o 838     8I            t18 I          11          8813 i-       88l-         IsI48                       i  T_8 88    888           438b                                  NL3  A123 2TI
itto83           to8            to       es31   881    618 i        I   i        t   o         t   t         i   t        v 8118 4818 888? 881t811                 It38  84  88   I8                   a11818UA82  1its"  0 1Am
384          38oI8          ks           tI            os           itI          t  88t 883 1oI 81t8I4  1                                   I88us8                 it I)a8]                                             oil"  4111151113
of88         H  888         8            t88          to8 I         to8-         is888I                       1I          o I8)t88  8I 888            o8  I8                     of8 I                          V2I8.........
8888...      .....6         8..1..      ......        ....88       ......         888            3           818           814 .....4.......881.....38.8...13.3....1.......2......
88lt83           16        t   tt        t   ti       o    oo       I    o 1888ti83I3 8818 8888o8888                          fi8       of88  38  881  88   888        tit       88t                   118131381815011*2110=
68           -----6        ------       ......        ......        ......       ......        ------       ... ..        ......        --- --        888--        ... ..        ......
888          88t   11      o     I        ttt 1888                       t       Itof8838  88i8I                                         1             o           I             1                                    1110ilvi    mm)1  1183
.......  .......  -------  .......   .......  .......  .......  .......  .......   .......  .....  -------    -------       .......110
it it  is ot  it WI  n   0  46 It  ti of  of ot  it 11  it 1       69 Si         #1 I         of I          it 9                                                           am1328111
gm1181118218
88811    3888    8888    84111 86118    1881    8188    38831 88818  8184    8814    88188                  88684    8888                         11211311301 1110
is88i8           f         to88  I 80    8813         08I3 0I           48       883           8  88          888         08U888lu0331                                                                                            am11
88831  18811  88841  38481  81383  88&'1  88381  88813  88181        8861          8131         8883          888           888                                   11108131113801
88 88  8  838 8838  8488  3868 1318  8384  8 38      88884         88 88        8888          88 68         8184           188                                  11802   110
888  888  808  888  888  888  888          888          888           888                                                                                                 11*11123~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............
......       -------       ......        ......t     -.n .f.fl.t...... t......                 ......        t......      t......       .......       .......       .......      -------
8886         9       o     0     i       i    s1 88810  8888L3888t8848  3438     8880           338          8833         8838          88814  1       8888        888           8188                                  11 1188  IS
to83         888           883f  s       t     i      o      ft     o 888  8  88  8of          818Uit        i8t           818t83                     8e8          88            888 I                                     3tm 81811
go I  to 0  of I  of  I  of I  of  to I                   of I                                                                                                 $3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111 113232M
8831  881           88881         3811         8888          331           88,         8 i88818        98          8438          8884           861         8888          8188M11                                 m011   18101a
ito  10 lit  ll  tit  of lit  it  1  to is  it  lit  of  it  #I  lit   00it    it #60       to t          it Los                                                          32110
3111fl11AL115
1182321    18811  1582881    18121       18380..        8812 ...83...       01.   1           ......12.0    1...121    ....1...        1....28        1382. 38.    18..
8888  8888       1803        ~~1808     t  8888           88t          3888       t  t         o      o     I 38i8 888  888   8188         t818          81o           8188 Mgil                                      I
.......  .......  .......  ---- I..    .1...1 ..1.2.1 .... ..1.....                             2... . .   . . . .       - - - -       . . .         . . .         . . .
1i       stt         i        t    o  of        of*4'd            1 it, 03t is1818 110                 It11tlt38t5stv                                        t         t   o      t                      ut         1111IS
.. . .  . .  .      ..  ..X.          . ..     . .  . .      . .. .         . . .       . . . .       . . . .        . .  .       .  ..  .     . . .  .     .. . .         . . .
H   t  of 0  so t   44 ti         1~ t          It t        8383 I      0313I3821                                   t              s            tI            4IanIa
to t   tot                        6I  tt                                                                                                                                      ulnv 1"M3   -



- 38 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. 870-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Appraisal      Actual
Indicators                                                1984           1984
1i Staffing
Number of permanent employees
Total DEG                                         337          504
Conakry                                           221          323
Conakry staff per 1,000 registered
connections                                            17          34
2. Conakry Operations
Water produced OOOm3/year                            16,890      16,050
Water sold OOOm3/year                                12,890      11,400
Accounted for (M)                                        76           71
Number of water connections made (78-84)              7,350       1,737
Total number of connections                          13,176      11,167
Number of working meters                             12,600         564
Number of standpipes installed                          342          112
3. Secondary Centers
Number of centers in operation                            6            6
Staff directly allocated                                116         181
Water produced OOOm3/year                             2,850       1,460
Water sold OOOm3/year                                 2,005       1,430
Number of connections                                 2,850       3,644
Number of connections made (82-84)                      975         784
Number of standpipes                                    -           268
Number of working meters                              2,400         723



- 39 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. 870-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Appraisal      Actual    Adjusted
Indicators                                       1984           1984       1984
4. Finances
DEG - Conakry
Revenues (million Sylis)               161.4         NA
Rate of return (2)                      17.6         NA
Operating ratio                        59.1          NA
DEG - Total Operations
Revenues (million Sylis)               190.3       137.00       137.00
operating ratio (%)                    76.6          1.03         1.03
Debt/Equity (%)                         72.9         NA          46.78
Current ratio (%)                       5.0           .80          .54
Debt service coverage                    1.7         NA            .11
Number months of billing
in receivables                        4.1         11.0          11.0
Rate of return (M) 1/                   6.0          NA          - 5.56
1/
2/ Historical basis
June 1986



- 40 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. 870-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
(WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT)
1. Approach
1.01      In order to scay consistent with the methodology used in the SAR,
the internal economic rate of return was re-calculated assuming:
As costs: all incremental capital and recurrent costs for the
water supply component of the project, but excluding the training
and working capital components;
As benefit: the incremental revenues to DEC from the sales of
incremental water supplied.
1.02      The recent adjustment of the Guinean currency hampered the use of
any conversion factor, thus all costs and benefits accruing to DEC prior to
that adjustment were converted into US Dollar equivalent using the shadow
exchange rate of US$1.00 = Sylis 35. assumed in the SAR.
2. Deflators
2.01      The conversion of current price figures to constant dollar prices
of 1978 was based on the following deflators
Year:   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
1.0   1.12   1.23   1.23   1.22   1.19   1.16   1.18
3. Recurrent Costs
3.01      DEG's accounts are kept partly on a cash basis and income
statements do not reflect the accurate level of annual costs; energy and
power expenditures are not properly recorded (or not recorded at all).
Maintenance costs are underestimated. Therefore, an approximation should
be made; operation and maintenance (incremental) costs were assumed to
amount to 5% of the investment costs, which is consistent with ratios
observed in neighbouring countries.



- 41 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 2
5. Tariffs
5.01      95% of the water meters being out of order, water customers are
billed on a flat rate basis. However, the 1985 official rate of
Sylis 10/mn3 has been retained as a measure of the consumer's willingness to
pay.
6. Economic Rate of Return
6.01      The attached table shows the details of the recalculation.  The
long range marginal cost as approximated by the average incremental cost
(AIC) amounts to US$0.25/m3 at 1978 prices i.e. US$.29/m3 at 1985 prices.
The economic rate of return amounts to 10% (taking into account the shadow
rate of US$1.00 = Sylis 35), higher than the 7% expected in the SAR.
However, the sustainability of that rate of return is contingent upon an
adjustment of the average tariffs in line with the impact of the
devaluation. Converted in Guinean Francs at the current exchange rate
(US$1.00 - 350 Guinean Francs) the 1985 water rate should be increased
tenfold to ensure the rate of return estimated above. It is indeed
doubtful that the Guinean authorities would endorse such an adjustment.
Were the tariffs not raised, or in an insufficient amount, the IERR would
become negative. The economic analysis performed in the SAR outlined the
EIRR's sensitivity to the shadow exchange rate although such a dramatic
change was not foreseen.
WAPWS
June 1986



- 42 -
REPUDtIC Of GUNINA                                              ANNEX  5-2
fIRST VATNE  PROJECT
ECOKONIC REEVALUATION
(1971 PRICES)
IlERtINTAL                     INVESTMENT           INCRtEtNTAL          INCRERENTAL          INCIEMENTAL             NIT
YEAR              CONSINPTION                       COSTS              OPtRATION I            COSTS              ItVtNUtS             INCREtENTAL
(MILLION                        1000 6)             NAINTENANCt           (000 1)              (000 S)              ENmttlTS
M31Yeat)                                             COSTS                                                         (000 S)
00oo 6)
g::_tS::                                                 : 4ugg:33t:22t::                                                               ucgvaS:
1976                                               330 6                                     330 6                                    -330.6
1t79                                               411 1                                     411 1                                    -411 1
1960                                              I4aS  4 a                                   S  4                                   -1459 4
1l81                                              1114 2                                    1714 2                                   -1714.
196                                              2005 1                                     0oo5 I                                  -2005 1
1los               2 244                          1693 0                126 0               2ll6  0               541 2              -1647.0
1964               4.533                         lit5 1                 390 7               1565 6               1113 4               -472 4
1915               5 346                          1513 S                450 4               2034 2               1296 1               -731 1
lis6               6.09                                                 529 6                52t 6               1476 2                946 6
1917               6.1t4                                                529 6                52s96               1676.3               1146.?
1961               7 739                                                52t 6                529 6               1616 4               1346.8
196                7 739                                               s5t 6                 l2t 6               1676.4               1346 6
199tO                  739                                              52l   6              529 6               1176.4               1340.6
Ittt               7 739                                                529 6                52t6                t676 4               1344.61
1992               7739                                                   t 5                56 529             lilt6  4              1346.6
1993               7.739                                                519 6                52  6               1676.4               1346.6
1994               7 739                                                529t 6                29                 1876.4               1346 6
199S               7 73t                                                529 6                5t 6                1676 4               1346.8
1996               7 73t                                                529 6                529 6               1176.4               1346 8
ot97               7 739                                               s5t 6                 52  6               1676 4               1346.1
19t9                7.739                                               529 6                529 6               1167  4              13461.
1999               7 739                                                it 6                 529 6               1676.4               13,6 6
2000               7 739                                                529 6                s2t 6               1676 4               13460.
2001               ?.73t                                                529 *                529 6               176 4               1346.6
2oot               7739                                                 529 6                52t 6               1671  4              1346.6
2003               7739                                                s5t 6                 529 6               1174.4               1346.6
2004               7739                                                 529 6                529 6               1676 4               1346.6
2005               7739                                                 529 6                5s2  6              1676.4               1346.6
2606               7739                                                 s2t 6                S29.6               1676 4               1346.6
2007               7739                                                 529 6                529.6               1676.4               1346.1
2001               7739                                                 591.6                519.6               16?6.4               1346.8
2009               7.739                                                529 6                529.6               1676.4               1346 6
2010               7 739                                                s9t                  52, 6               1S76.4               1346 1
2011               7.739                                                529.6                529 6               1676.4               1346.8
tO21               7.739                                                529 A                52t9.               1376 4               1346.6
Prestent value
@10n   tate              3  4                                                                    9433 3
Average intratootal cost
AIC (1I13)                      0 246
Eotoneit IiR                       9 1I     (with the SAR  ichnpge tat# of tl a 35 $fltv)
tusiag ptcsent tatiff          aetlativ  with tht cutreat eachunge tate of et    * 350 gultino  ftnts
of GI 1013)



I f  ,i--_    S E N  E G  A  l
IFo,A,tG)                LIBYA M                1               Youkounkoun
SPANISH    ' \                                       Koundaro
MAURITANIA I :  t
NIGEI? I CHAD                              \
ERIA
S IBERUALEO '' ' .NEj ilil   o_  r.,          .GAOUALN
URERrA S ~~~~~' ~~               'iRAUXITE 
<?Gu%EAL-rJ t                       j
cAo(zZAIRE             j          />      ib 
.  t\5 | ' < > t' SS   f                                                   Koubio
/t  m                    LwFuma FN    N       ..Ofo  Tougui
lo BolIatno/ \
t! / p \ ~AY                      KOYE l.
.^     >ii                 s     r     - .                    Pita
Dohbc
-10                                  SueI  I uy
WATER SYSTEMS:
~JUnder Mining Management
Under DEG Management
r -             C      t
L  - .   Under ConstrUCtion
r  JJ  For Study under Proposed Project
POPULATION                    C      3NAKRY'
Above 80,000
*B     Above 50,000
la     Above 10,000
El Above 10,000                                         moreonG    U    I N    E  A
ID     Above 2,000                                                                 CONAKRY
C)  Main Development Poles                                       FIRST WATER SUPPI
410Mining ProjectsFISWAE SUP
[Z~ Forest                                                              SANITATION PRC
ji ZZi]  Tropical Fruits                                           LOCATION  OF URBAN  WATI
t        I Livestock Project
1      1Z   Rice Project
0    20  40   O0  80
23    Proposed Bauxite Mining                                                 --iLOMTEI
8       )0   Proposed Iron Ore Mining                                                     20      40
MILES
-        First Cotegory Roads
 - -   Roads under Construction
Railroods
Rivers
-*  -   International Boundories       t^5  hDndM7II          l t%-W    d
4 - o( Th. & _.,& , e    aIf. ,,.,.* a" ox V. ,?



IBRD 13734R
M         A          L I
L   ToBamoko
i77--_     (  tt4.8                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kour6mali                        2
.=S ......,-/''',I
T i T&UE
Se[our7            '           ,_.rouJ
-            K~~~~ougou
-         Biseikrima               ,      7         !        }       ~      fMandiBna
A2ii    !+.   (            N                                                                o
3-   *t   ''.0       \     \                 K_nkn                                            *\      (
C-~ ~ ~ *                                                                                       X        i ' 
UTER SYSTEMS                                                                 -                                   j7 
/
1ioo   12G3  140   160                                               '
60       80       100                                      rt  .,MIFERGUI'  -
OJE     CT                                      i                        R-N ORi ,l    E      -EIREN ORE
/"                               \  '33' pr''     >         33tv33*a0~~~~~~~owdo ~iijct  0
gf   >   tI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4MBA    -
X                                    e.n             X g -  - inoa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tbidjc3n
_ _ _ _  li f tMonrwia



0
.,'
EXISTING MAIN WATER SUFPLY FACILITIES
AAKOULVAI PIPELINES
_______               *  ~~~~~RESERVOIRS
I(II4 A i C[lltIS,           e  VAKOUL.A iNTAKCS
CAMAYENNE
CAMEROUN
A -
\W~~~~~~~~~ '
COLEAH                   MADINAS
PROJECT                                                       EXISTING
TRA4SMISSIONI MAINS                                               TRUNK DISTRIBUTION MAINS
OISTRIFUTION MAINS                                           RESERVOIRS
MAUOR DISTRIBUTION REINFORCEMENTWORKS              '*"_-s ROADSANO STREETS
ii l   DISTRISUTION NiET'AOR'K TO BE PARTLY REPLACED        R--    RILROAO
PROPOSEO RESERVOIRS                                          DIVISION OF THE TWO MAIN DISTQICTS
W WATER DUALITY CONTROL OR TREATMENT                            _   DISTRICT LIMITS
DRAINAGE WORKS TO BE CONSTRUCTED
PROJECT BOUNDARIES AND CITY LIMITS



FIRST WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                        G U I N r A
PROJECT COMPONENTS
e
? \    ,X'7              -- So   p                             <
>1 E,J                                                                       I
/ RATOMAI                                                              C111p/~L   i71 A    81-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A v. M10 0JAo
>/I~~ .--0
/7                                                   X
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ,.  iw SW --  a 
KILOMEXERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w TM"Mf,
iu. ft1S.~



