Document of
The World Bank  Li LUPV
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2127-GUI
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONAKRY
FIRST WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
'November 16, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Republic of Guinea
Conakry Wdater Supply and Sanitation Project
Fiscal Year Ending December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli.    1 Syli=0.05$
I$=20 Sylis
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer            (km)                          0.62 mile
Meter                (m)                          39.37 inches
Hectare              (hg)                          2.47 acres
Cubic Mleter         (m )                          264 US gallons
Cubic meter per        3
second          (m /s)                        22.8 millions US gallons,'day
Liter                (1)                           0.264 US gallon
Liter per second    (l/s)                          22,800 US gallons/day
Liter per capita
per day         (lcd)
Milligram per liter (mg/i)                         1.0 part per million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
WHO               World Health Organization
ADB               Afrjican Development Bank
MIE               Mini'stry of Industry and Energy
MLHW              Ministry of Large Hydraulic Works
MRD               Ministry of Rural Deve]Lopment
DEG               Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau de Guinee
DPH               Division of Preventive Hygiene
RAC               Region Administrative de Conakry
OCOFI             Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ...................                   1
General ..........................................................        I
Population oo.o ... o ............***ooe                                  1
Water Resources ...o. ..................... .........         .. .        1
Levels of Service ..       .       .. . .... ...... ... .......I. .       2
Sector Organization ..         . . .  ....... ................... .... .  2
Past Sector Investment and Financing ...............    o...              3
Sector Programs and Priorities .........................                  3
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade .....                  4
Dependency on Foreign Imports ............ .................              5
II.   POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN THE
PROJECT AREA ..      .. . . .. . . .. .  .....................oo    .......  5
The Project Area . .......   . .  ..  ...... ....... .......              5
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems.                         6
Population Served ...... ..- ........ . ...... . ................... .    8
Population Forecasts . ..............  ............. .......              9
Urban Poor ..... o            .....................................      10
Forecast of Consumption    ......                 ..... ....... . . ..   10
III.   THE PROJECT.                    ................... .                     11
Project Preparation              .     ..                                11
Project Objectives                       ..i2
Project Description . .....  .................... .o....                 13
A. *Water Supply  -- .......... . ....... .......                     13
B. Drainage and Sanitation. .                                         14
C.  Consulting Services and Technical Assistance                      14
D.  Training.                                                         15
Cost Estimates .........                     .-..  o..                  1.6
Project Financing and IDA Credit ..             .....................   16
Project Preparation Facility  - .........-......                        18
Implementation ......................................                   19
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. H. Motte (Sanitary Engineer), H. Nickel
(Financial Analyst) and J. W. Gilling (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS  (Continued)                                                            Pa,;e No.
Local Construction Industry  9..a. .................                             20
Procurement  ....        .     .........................................         20
DisbursemenLt  e                      -- ...... .a......  .                      21
Environmental and Public Hiealth Aspects ....                .............       22
IV     ECONOMIC ANE  SOCIAL ANALYSTS  _...........................                      23
Project Benefits                ................................                 23
Dr ainage
Least Cost Solution   .           . a . ..aa.................... .... ........  24
Cost Recovery  ... ............  .....................                           2$
Justification...- ......                 ........................               24
Water Supply
Least Cost Solution                     ....a a. a a a a a.2 3
:Rate of Return . ............. a...................                             23
'Pricing Considerations             ..................... ............           27
House Connection Policy                ......a...............2 7
Consumer Ability to Pay  ........................                                23
Access to Water by Urban Poor _.  ....................                           2)
V.   'THE BENEFICIT_RY                      ....... e..................                29'
Organization and Management  a .              ..a.......................         2'
"IA Priori" Expenditu?re Contrrols  ........ ..........                         30
Foreign Exchange for Parts and Supplies    .                 .........           3-.
Meter Reading, Billing and Collection ........                 ..........        3:
Accounting  .......   .... ....             ...........................          32
Audits  a....o ..                    ....o. a.,o,aac....... a...3.
Planning and Budgeting    ,..a,........... ............                         3
Insurance                   ...eooe..    ........................                3
Operations and Maintenance a..a........................                          3L
l'echnical Assistance  ..a...........................                            3L
S'taffing .....  .......a...  ......ea,.a......,..                               35
Training ..e....... a...o..  .......................                             36
Management of t'he Conakry Drainage System               ......                  37'
VI.    FINANCIAL ANA'LYSIS  a.a..              ......................3
IntroductionA                  ......  ........................ 3a 
FEast and Present FinancieLl Performanace ....               .............       3;
Tariffs  a 3-a.aaa            e .a aOa    a ......I.......................... aC
F'inancing P:Lan .           a                . o  a a a o      a a a a a o   a . a.  ..*  '+1
F'uture Financial Performance .... ......                 ......  .....          42
N[onitoring TLldicators a a a a a a a... .....      a a . ..................     +4
VII.    SUMM_RY, ACGRfELNJSNTS A.ND RECONMENDATIONS  ...              .............      q,4
Project Risks ......................................!,5
Agreements Reached and  Recommendations .................



LIST OF ANNEXES AND MAPS
Annex 1-1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
2-1   Population Forecast
2-2   Water Forecast
2-3   Demand Forecast
3-1   Project Costs
3-2   Project Implementation Schedule
5-1   1977 DEG Organization Chart
5-2   Proposed DEG Organization Chart
6-1   DEG Income Statements
6-2   DEG Conakry Operations - Income Statements
6-3   DEG Funds Flow Statements
6-4   DEG Balance Sheets
6-5   Assumptions for Financial Projections
6-6   1977 Income - Conakry vs. Secondary Centers
6-7   Foreign Borrowing
6-8   Monitoring Indicators
7-1   Improvement Plan to be Implemented by DEG
Map 13734   Location of Urban Water Systems
13735   Project Components






CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
General
2
1.01       Guinea has an area of some 246,000 km  .  Bordered by Guinea Bissau,
Senegal and Mali to the north, Ivory Coast to the east, and Liberia and Sierra
Leone to the south, the country has about 300 km of coastline on the Atlantic
Ocean to the West (Map 13734). The country can be divided in four geographical
regions: the narrow coastal belt (lower Guinea), the pastoral Fouta Djallon
(Middle Guinea), Upper Guinea and the South Eastern forest region. Western
Africa's largest rivers, the Niger, the Gambia and Senegal, all rise in the
Fouta Djallon. The coastal region and most of the country inland have a tro-
pical climate with one rainy season, relatively high and uniform temperatures
and high humidity. Annual rainfalls vary between 2 meters in the forest
and Fouta areas, and up to 4 meters in the coastal belt.
Population
1.02       The last census carried out in 1972 put the population at 4.2 mil-
lion with an annual growth rate estimated at 2.8%. About 78% of this popula-
tion lives in rural areas and is directly engaged in agriculture. The re-
mainder, or 22%, live in 17 towns of 10,000 people or above.  The urban growth
rate is estimated at 4% per annum. If this trend is maintained as expected,
the percentage of urban population will increase to more than 27% by the turn
of the century.
1.03       About 55% of the urban population is concentrated in the City of
Conakry, the nation's capital, which dominates the pattern of urban growth.
Its present population is estimated to be around 540,000 inhabitants. It
is forecast that without decentralization policies, which are still in the
process of being developed and implemented, the capital's population will
represent more than 75% of the urban population and about 20% of the total
population by the year 2000.
Water Resources
1.04       Compared to the neighboring countries, Guinea is well endowed with
water resources. The country relies mostly on surface water for its water
supply as there have been no serious attempts to investigate the extent and
utilization of ground water. Most of the rivers tapped are perennial and
have low flows well above present water supply requirements of nearby centers.
There are springs close to some centers, but they usually yield insufficient
water to satisfy these cities. Apart from Conakry no inventory, monitoring
or use of aquifers has yet been undertaken. A first UNDP project is now being
implemented with World Meteorological Organization's assistance, and is devised
to set up monitoring of river flows and selected ground water resources and to
assist and strengthen the national hydrological bureau of the Ministry of Large
Hydraulic Works (MLHW).



- 2 -
1.05      The GovernlmerLt of Guinea has recently approached the Association
to request assistance in the preparation of a national water master plarL for
the use of its surface water resources for power, irrigation, water su ')ply
and, possibly, flow regularization for fluvial transport.  Discussions a.re
under way both to define a pragmatic. approach to this multi-sectoral s-udy,
and to obtain the participation of other multi and bilateral agencies.
Levels of Service
1.06      Presently, the rural population obtains its water supply essEr.tially
from shallow wells and running streams; they depend primarily on hand Jug
wells which often dry out in the dry season and revert to farther and lEsser
surface resources. Until recently, little investigation has been undertaken
to find alternatives for improving this unsatisfactory situat:ion and t) re-
lieve the population from long and weary travel in search for water.
1.07      The level of service in urban centers is not significantly bat.ter.
Apart from three mining centers whic:h have piped water systems serving their
entire population, the water service levels remain very low.  It is estimated
that about 10% of the urban population benefits from a piped system.  Ocnakry
has probably the highest level of service, with 42% of the population served
through about 6000 private connections and 100 standposts. In other urlcan
areas the situation is worse; besides four centers with piped water ogerated
by Entresprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau de Guinee, DEG, the remainder
of urban centers have piped water supplies limited to serving areas oc :upied
by administrative authorities.  The remainder of the population not served
by these piped water systems obtain their water supplies from shallow Wells,
ponds or running streams, all of which may be polluted.   The quality )f
service is poor even from the piped water systems; is often provided i-lter-
mittent:Ly for a few hours a day and seldom chlorinated; in general, wa-Er
works are old and in poor condition; many of the standpipes are not opera-
tive, and in cases where they do operate, the surrounding sanitary con-
ditions are so bad that they frequenitly constitute a health hlazard.
1.08      Only Conakry and the mining centers of Kamsar and Fria have 3enitary
sewage systems. The Conakry network of sewers is limited to pre-indep2rdence
city limits and appears clogged in many points; connections between the drain-
age and sewerage systems have been made to help dispose of sewage, but these
arrangements do not constitute satisfactory long-term alternatives.  SeFtic
tanks, soakaways, and pit latrinaes are in common use in urban areas and a fre-
quent source of contaminiation to private wells too closely located.
Sector Organization
1.09      Among various entities dealing with water supply and sanitat:cn, two
institutions assume a predomina-nt and effective role.  The Ministry of Industry
and Energy (MIE) is responsible for planning and executing al.l water silpply and
sewage systems. DEG, established in 1.961 following takeover of the fo:-eign
concessionaire of the Conakry Twater and sewerage systems, has been ent:-usted
with nation-wide operations of such systems; apart from water supply srstems



- 3 -
in mining towns managed by the mining companies and embryonic municipal sys-
tems managed by the regional ministries of rural development (MRD), DEG now
manages systems in five towns and will manage all new systems for which iong-
term borrowing is foreseen. Operating and maintenance performance, adequacy
of staff and technical assistance and training needs are discussed in paras.
5.21-5.27.
1.10       Rural water supplies are the responsibility of MLHW, also responsi-
ble for water resources inventory and allocation. The Division of Preventive
Hygiene (DPH) within the Ministry of Public Health is responsible for quality
control and supervision over all water supply sources, but due to its man-
power and material shortage limits its role to wells in urban areas; in
Conakry, the control of well construction dug by private parties and the
monitoring of water quality is effectively undertaken, and inspection and
disinfection of all wells takes place yearly before the rainy season, to the
extent permitted by DPH's fleet of vehicles and availability of chemicals.
Drainage and solid wastes disposal are the responsibility of Regional Admin-
istrative Authorities (Region Administrative). Their related activities are
minimal because of deteriorating means, lack of planning of operations and
investment resources and shortage of qualified staff (para. 5.28).
Past Sector Investments and Financing
1.11       Capital expenditures in the sector have been very low over the past
decade, depending entirely on external financing. Total public investment in
the water sector represented $12 million over the past 5 years. Since the ex-
tension of the Conakry production and transmission works in 1965, water supply
and sewage and drainage investments suffered severe cutbacks until 1973. At
that time, the Government received financial aid from Italian bilateral aid and
supplier's credit (approx. US$6.4 million) to expand water systems in four pro-
vincial centers; eventually the amount benefited only the cities of Kindia and
Kankan, because of project cost increases and currency devaluation. In 1971,
the Russian Government provided US$1.9 million loan for the center of Nzerekore,
and in 1975 the African Development Bank (ADB) provided about US$3.7 million to
rehabilitate the production facilities and improve the transmission network of
the Conakry operations. Investments in the rural areas have been negligible;
recently the European Development Fund awarded a grant of about US$4.5 million
to finance drilling equipment and the training of drillers and maintenance
units within MLHW.
Sector Program and Priorities
1.12       Early in 1974 and following cholera outbreaks in Conakry, the Govern-
ment decided to give the highest priority to the capital city. Feasibility
studies of water supply, drainage and sanitation for the capital city of
Conakry are nearing completion; these are respectively financed by ADB
and UNDP, with WHO acting as executing agency. The water supply study indi-
cates that investments for this sub-sector may reach US$74 million by 1990.
The drainage and sewage disposal studies to extend such facilities to the
entire urban area of Conakry have not yet led to final conclusions and cost



- 4 --
estimates will depend on level of service to be agreed on.  As a first a:Drox-
imation, costs for the drai`nage network might reach USD70 million; costs for
rehabilitating the sewerage network in parts of Conakry and exterlding appro-
priate service in other areas would be in the order of -US$1±0 villion, o.
which 70% in foreign exchange. At the request of the Association, the f asi-
bility studies for sewera.,ge wil.l lcok closely at alternrative sanitation
systeirs.
1.13      The Government is also planning a series of feasibility studie, for
water supply and san:itation in the seven large administrative centers wh ch
now have inadequate infrastructure. IDA has been requested to finance these
studies, and provisioni for their financing is included in the proposed c::edit
(para. 3.05 C(vi)).  No cost estimates for the works can be established is of
now, since they will depend on the water resources investigaticon and on -re
levels of service decided upon.  As a first approximation. it is estimatec
that the costs mignt reach US$30 million.
1.14      The Covermnaent has obtained a $7 million supplier's credit for two
secondary centers, Fa-anah and Guerkecou, which have first priority on t E,
list of urban centers reau.r iirg adequeate water supply systems.  Construc -ion
of these schemes based on teclhnical studies orepared in 1965, would star: by
the end of 1978.
1.15      The main prDblems which the Government faces in trying to ratinrLal-
ize and accelerate development in the sector, are the paucity of information
to prepare and design projects, and the lack of qualified personnel to plan,
build and operate the works.  The Government recognizes that it has limi:ed
resources to expand the sector significantly by itself and wilL continue
relying on external aid for sector financing over the next five years.  In
consequence, it is focussing on providing the operating entity with quaii--
fied staff to operate and maintain the newly built or improved systems.
Subsequently as Local fin2ncial resources plus more in"ormation on watel
resources and design requirements become available, the planring and des ign-
ing functions would be enlarged and receive greater emphasis.  As a staltat
MIE agreed to strengthen its planning activities in the sector by receiving
assistance from a planner who would effect several missions totalling tveLve
months (para. 3.05 C(iv)) to establish -writh MIE and DEG sector investmerts and
priorities in line with acceptabl,e levels of service; affordable costs sndi
realistic implementation targets.
International Drinking Water and Sani-'ation Decade
1.16      In MIarch 1977     a the United Water Conference heid in Mar de la Ilita,
Argentina, declared the period l9BI-1990 t:he International Drinking Water and
Sanitation Decade,  All developing countries have been requested to preca-ue
by 1980 detailed investment plans, including identification of necessar-
financial and manpower resources to provide all people with access to s< fs
water, and to extent possible, with sanitation, by 1990.  The investmeni
plans and financial and human resources needed would be reviewed by 198  by
a special meeting cf the Economic and Social Council of the United Nati:ns
(ECOSOC) and a plan prepared to mobilize these resources,  The World HeIlth
Organization's thirtieth Assembly resolved to collaborate with member



-5-
countries during the initial stage, and one action suggested is WHO staff
assistance to these countries for a rapid assessment of ongoing programs
and their possible expansion.
1.17      The Government of Guinea requested support from WHO to conduct a
rapid assessment of sector constraints and the most urgent investment needs
for effective resumption of the Government's active participation in pro-
viding basic water and sanitation services to the population. This assess-
ment which took place in July 1978 will help the Government better assess
the issues it faces in planning and implementing water supply and waste
water_1isposal investments over the next five year development program
1978-1983, now in its preparation phase. The Government has responded very
favorably to this first step and has agreed to pursue this rapid assessment
by undertaking a nationwide sector study to be executed under the Bank-WHO
cooperative program.
Dependency on Foreign Imports
1.18      The sector is dependent on foreign imports for almost all its
investment and operational needs. This heavy dependence on foreign supply
could be partly remedied for water operations with the production of aluminum
sulphate and plastic pipes in Guinea. Alumina is now produced in Fria,
Guinea, through a process that would allow the production of aluminum sul-
phate. Management of the Fria plant and the Guinean Government indicated
that they would favour investments for its local production if market
studies determined their viability based on markets in Guinea and neighbor-
ing countries. The proposed credit would include provisions for this market
study. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the Government would
submit to the shareholders of Friguia the findings and recommendations of
these studies, if favorable, for purposes of a prefeasibility study.
1.19      Also Conakry has a concrete pipe manufacturing plant which is
not working, and studies are underway for its rehabilitation. The present
process is acceptable to manufacture pipes for drainage and sewerage but
not for water supply and house uses. Market studies to determine the pre-
ferability of changing the process or of establishing a separate plastic pipe
manufacturing unit are included in the proposed credit (para. 3.05 C (vi)).
CHAPTER II
POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT AREA
The Project Area
2.01      The project is located in Conakry, the capital city, commercial
center, and main port of Guinea. Existing development of the city is concen-
trated on the peninsula bordered inland by large swampy areas. New housing



-6-
and industrial development are taking place in a wedge--like zone, located be-
tween these swamps, the width of which increases as one moves towards i.ncand.
The topography of the city is rather flat, with altitudes increasing tcvcLrds
the inland (10 to 80 m); the existence of a ridge along the m-'iddle of the
peninsula favors dra:inage towards the coast. Map 13735 shows the location
of the project together with the layout of the water supply and sanitation
systems.
2.02      Future ecocaomic growth in Conakry is expected to be indirectly
linked to the possible growth rate of 10-12% per year in real terms of m:ning
sector excports. New bauxite, alumina and iron ore projects wlhich are planned
for completion by 1932, should generate sufficient surplus (after ensurinig
their own requirements) in foreign exchange to perme-a growtlh of import3 in
real termas of 11-14% per year. Most of these imports would be handled through
the port of Conakry, thus increasing the importance of Conakry as a distPibu-
tion center.  High priority is expected to be given to the imDortation o:
material to rehabilitate and to supply inputs for existing unproductive Ln-
dustries.  The manufacturing sector could grow at a rate of 9% per year as a
result.  Feasibility studies are currerLtly underway for rehabilitation a.d
new development of industries in Conakry; however, no commitments have been
made.
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems
2.03      The first Conakry water suplys sstem, constructed in 1903, coa-
sisted of a stream intake close to springs in the Kakoulima, a mountairois
area, feeding Conakry by gravity from a distance of 40 kms. It was fo2llwed
by further intakes upstream totalling 40 1/s until 1950 when ground wal: er
investigation in the peninsula successfully led to drilling and operatiol of
6 boreholes.  The gravity system still supplies Conakry whereas the borenoles
were shut down one after the other in the early sixties for lack of mai'ntenance.
of the electro-pchaLnical equipment.  I:n 1964, the water supply was fui:tler
reinforced by a 500 l/s treatment plant at Yessoulou, fed by a 45 km rE.-w water
pipeline leading from the penstock of the Crandes Chutes hydro-electri(: lam
and a 700 mm treated water pipeline extending for 35 km.  The designed capac-
ity of She Yessoulou transmission line is 40,000 m 3/d;of the Kakoulima line,
5,000 m /d.  Whereas following i s rehabilitation in 1974, the treatmert plant
can effectively produce 45,000 m /daily, the actual combined transmiss:1.s
capacity of the Kakoulima and Yessoulou 3supplies is only about 30,000 T: /d;
peak requirements in 1977 were 35,000 m3 /day. The system is operated <::t
a constant production rate.  The transmission lines have apparently suf.fered
from past neglect, and most of the sophisticated air valves are cloggec,
broken and difficult to maintain and respair.  Pressure and discharge mca3ures
inuicate a large decrease in the pipe itransmission capacity, due both 1o the
entrapment of air and encrustation of the pipe walls.  It is believed that
cleaning of the Yessoulou pipe and modification of some narrow sections -ould
increase the gravity flow; these improvements can, however, be made on:.y when
Conakry can depend on a second large water supply source and temporari'.y take
the Yessoulou pipel:ine out of service for this needed maintenance.



-7 -
2.04      The Grandes Chutes dam was constructed in 1952 for power production
for Conakry and Kindia, later used for water supply to Conakry. It has a
5 meter high overspilling crest and regulates flows released from a larger
upstream reservoir. The Grandes Chutes dam suffers from construction defi-
ciencies and lack of maintenance and presently shows leaks along its dike.
The Government is concerned with the present physical state of the dam,
and has requested consultants to determine the cost and feasibility of re-
habilitating it, and of a new dam located downstream as an alternative.
These studies would be financed under the proposed power engineering credit,
and first conclusions should be submitted in June 1979. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to submit the result of the feasibility studies for
review by the Association. It further agreed to investigate alternative
financing sources and secure the financing needed for proposed reconstruction
and/or rehabilitation works for the Grandes Chutes dam.
2.05      The 150 km water supply distribution system was operating almost
without storage until recently.  The main 10,000 m  reservoir at the head
of the distribution network was leaking and out of service for many years;
its rehabilitatiog has just been completed. In-town service reservoirs at
Bellevue (2,500 m ) or in Conakry I were either bypassed for technical rea-
sons or are too small to be effective during peak hours. Because of these,
the distribution pressure remained very low or nil in areas remote from feeder
pipes. Most of the secondary and pipe network is looped and was installed
prior to 1965. The pipe density appears fair in old European quarters, but
is insufficient in new zones. Tertiary pipes installed in the past ten years
were procured piecemeal and are of various materials. A substantial amount
of pipe lies unburied, due to the hard ground and lack of equipment to make
a proper installation.
2.06      The only public sewerage system in Guinea was commissioned in
Conakry in 1955. It is limited to the then city limits and consists of a
collection network and trunk sewers with about a dozen outfalls to the sea.
Many sewers suffer from neglect of maintenance and are clogged because of low
flows and lack of flushing equipment. Houses not within reach of the sewer
system depend on septic tanks, soakaways and pit latrines. The drainage system
consists of about 20 km of: (a) lined canals and buried pipes, mostly located
in the Conakry I area and along the main axes of traffic; (b) unlined ditches
of about 50 km along secondary roads. Many buried pipes are clogged, street
drains destroyed and concrete canals have subsided. The sewerage and drain-
age studies of Conakry underway are reviewing the feasibility of reducing the
number of outfalls to the sea, the rehabilitation of the existing sewerage
network and the ways of extending sewage disposal system to unserviced arease
In the meantime, the Government has obtained equipment financed under the
UNDP sewerage and drainage project (para. 1.12) to assist DEG's maintenance
units to repair and reactivate the sewer system.
2.07      Drainage in Conakry is the responsibility of the Conakry Administra-
tive Region (RAC).   RAC's technical services for urban infrastructure plann-
ing and maintenance are weakly staffed and have undertaken practically no



-8-
systematic maintenance or rehabilitation programs in recent years, mostly be-
cause of lack of equipment. Drainage as well as garbage collection and street
cleaning services are decentralized under the responsibility of local district
chiefs and unsatisfactorily managed. Pending result of the drainage studies
which should set forth proposals for appropriate organization of these serv-
ices, RAC has taken initial measures towards grouping the drainage services
under the central authority of a technical engineer responsible for maintain-
ing and cleaning the existing drainage network, and for providing adequate
office, garage and repair facilities for the operation of these services.  The
proposed project would remedy the shortage of equipment and vehicles by pro-
viding trucks with spare parts, and minor garage and maintenance tools (para.
3.05 B(iv)).
2.08      Sanitation in Conakry in general is well below the desired level
but not critical, as long as safe water supplies are assured. Following
cholera epidemics in the early seventies, the Government health authorities
began close monitoring of the health and sanitation conditions by DPH area
units (para. 1.10). The local "Pouvoir Revolutionnaire Local" (PRL) adminis-
trative entities acting at the district level, are playing an effective role
in hygiene education; radio has also been used as a vehicle for informing public
regarding hygiene. While water supply is now receiving, a greater emphasis
than sewage disposal, the Government considers that the sanitation aspects
must be given equal attention and should receive some relief measures while
studies for sewerage and drainage are carried out.
Population Served
2.09      Customer service for water supply is ensured, in principle, by
metered house connection and by standpipes. Eighty percent of the water
meters are inoperative, however, due to lack of maintenance and difficulty
of obtaining spare parts. Following recent meter orders, a meter installa-
tion campaign as well as an inventory of all private connections is underway.
The number of users per connection, estimated to be about 24 or three famil-
ies, seems particularly high when compared with neighboring countries, but
there is evidence that many of the private connections are actually used as
yard taps by a group of families which share the installation and the recurrent
costs of a connection. Conakry's water system has about 100 standpipes, 25%
of which need repairs, and a few sanitary blocks. The latter provide limited
services to the surrounding population without such facilities. 10 additional
sanitary blocks with shower, washing and toilets will be erected in the
project as a pilot experiment to improve sanitary conditions.
2.10      About 1000 unregistered connections which are not metered or billed,
provide service to government officials, senior civil servants, and employees
of DEG. The Government has agreed these connections will be registered and
subject to normal billing and metering. There is no evidence of illegal
connections.
2.11      Although statistical data on service levels and standards are
both inadequate and incomplete, the table below gives the estimated situa-
tion in Conakry in 1976:



-9-
Population
Numbers in                     Users per        Served
Service     Population        Connection      (% total)
Registered connections   4,808          115,400             24             23
Public standpipes           102         102,000          1,000             18
Unregistered
connections             1,090          10,900            10               2
Private wells             3,200         280,500 1/          65 1/          58 1/
508,800                          100
1/   Estimated as residual quantity.
Connections to the sewerage system are even fewer. About 600 private build-
ings are officially connected, and there may be as many unofficially connected.
Population Forecasts
2.12      Between 1962 and 1972, the Conakry population grew at an average
rate of about 12% per annumn, reaching 404,500 in the 1972 census. Much of
this growth was attributable to the internal migration caused by the
attraction of the capital city, which experienced rapid economic development
until 1969. Many of the migrants consisted of an influx of single men to towns
who in a second period created a family cell or were joined by their young
families. The result is that about 60% of the Conakry population was estimated
to be less than 25 years old in 1972. Since 1969, the Government has enforced
strict control on immigration to the larger cities and the annual rate of
Conakry's growth now averages 6%. This rate is expected to be maintained
until 1982 and then to decline to 3.5% towards 1990 as a result of the ex-
pected development of mining activities and emphasis on rural development.
The overall annual growth rate for the area of Conakry, including zones
beyond the city limits and covered by the project, is expected to decrease
from 6.7% (1977) to 3.0% in 1990, close to the average national urban growth
rate, as shown in the population forecast given in Annex 2.1.
2.13      The combination of natural increase, arrival of young migrants and
shortage of serviced land and construction materials had led to the rapid, un-
organized development of low quality housing resulting in high density areas
in parts of Conakry I and along the eastern edge of Conakry II Peninsula
(districts 1, 2, 3 and 5). In these districts, population growth is thought
to increase at a less than average rate, largely because there is no land
left for single story construction. Prospects for multi-story housing will
occur upon improvements in urban development and availability of financing,



- 10 -
thus permitting further densification. These problems are being investigated
in a pilot UNDP project for the areas of Tumbo and Hafia and in the prepara-
tion of a Bank urban project now schedLuled for FY80.
Urban Poor
2.14      After independence Conakry experienced a large influx of migranl:s
and an uncontrolled urban development in all areas not then urbanized. rthe
Government's social and administrative policies have been to develop serv:.ces
and provide employment equally to all inhabitants of the city.  As a resuLt
each neighborhood is heterogeneous comprising people of all etlnic origins
and income levels, and equipped with compara'ble social and administrative
facilities. A distinction can, however, be made between dense:Ly populated
areas lacking significant urban infrastructure and requiring quicker attention
for the improvement of health conditions and public services, and other areas
with acceptable urban development and the basic infrastructure<. In this
regard, the districts on the east side of Conakry II have been identified as
requiring more urgent attention for public services because of larger pOpli-
lation densities and inexistent large trunk distribution mains which could
have allowed the extension of service in these areas; these ar(e the Kolea,
Boussoura, Bonfi and Hafia, with densities averaging 400 to 600 inhabitan-:s
per hectare. In other smaller areas such as Hafia and Tumbo, a slum upgrading
and self help progran will soon be initiated with the assistance of UNDI.
This project will hopefully assist the Government in setting priorities, as
well as developing small enterprises and capable institutions in the urlban
sector and allocating funds to tackle housing issues.
Forecast of Consumption
2.15      The water demand forecast made by the consultants and the appra:'sal
mission, shown in Annexes 2.2 and 2.3 is based on the population forecast
(Annex 2.1), estimates of per capita consumption, growth in house connectt:ons
and stand-pipes, and the anticipated growth of the industrial and governmen.t
sectors in Conakry.  The fact that 80% of connections are not equipped wil:h
working mieters makes it impossible to use registered past trends as a bas:.s
for forecasting demand. Each component of demand has been examained as a
percentage of total demand and appear's reasonable when compared with cities
of similar size and development in Welstern Africa.
2.16      Total domestic consumption from house connections and standpi#s; is
expected to grow at about 11% during the project period to 1982 compared with
a population growth rate in the same period of 6%.  The percen:age of cco-
sumption by domestic users would rise from 68% (1977) to 71% (>982).  Wbile
approximately 3,500 house connections would be installed during the projact,
raising the percentage of population served by house connections from 23'. in
1977 to 26% in 1982, the standpipe program is expected to have a more siyrii-
ficant impact on improving the level of service. At present, about 18% Di' the
population is served by standpipes and by 1982 this percentage is expectzl to
rise to 31%. In order to achieve a 1level of domestic service '-rom the FLped
water system of 77% by 1990, about 240 standpipes in addition t:o the 16C



- 11 -
provided by tne project would Se required.  lue pLeEtLdc *ui LudI _ULtUiilp-
tion from standpipes would then rise from 8% at present to 14% by 1990 alLow-
ing for an increase in per capita consumption from 15 lU 'I'77) -.
(1990) as the density of standpipes increases throughout the city, thereby
reducing the average distance to the standpipe and the average time for
queuing.  During the same period, per capita consumption from house connee-
tions would increase slightly from 85 lcd to 92 lcd.
2.17      Administrative consumption includes government &ffices, hospitals,
and army camps and is presently billed on the basis of estimated usage. In
the absence of definitive information regarding the expansion of government
activities, an average growth rate of 9% per year during the period 1977382
has been assumed or 3% per year higher than the population growth rate of 6%.
This assumption is reasonable given the fact that the consuimption of existing
administrative customers would rise automatically with the improvements in
service resulting from the addition of the new water supply facilities.
2.18      The growth rate of industrial consumption is uncertain because of
the indefinite plans for the rehabilitation of existing industriec and the
development of new ones, The present level of industrial consumption is also
uncertain since most industries have received estimated bills due to the lack
of working meters. An investigation by the consultants and an analysis by
the appraisal mission based on the readings of recently installed meters in-
dicates about 15% overbilling of industrial consumption. The annual growth
rate of industrial water consumption in Conakry has therefore been conserva-
tively forecast at 6% during the project with the anticipation of a 35% in-
crease in 1983 associated with some rehabilitation of existing non-productive
factories and the installation of new industries (para 2.02). The average
growth rate 1977 to 1985 would then be 9%/year. Industrial consumption as a
percentage of total consumption is expected to remain constant at about 15%.
CHAPTER III
THE PROJECT
Project Preparation
3.01      In 1974, the Guinean Government requested the assistance of the
African Development Bank (ADB) for the rehabilitation and improvement of
water supply in Conakry; besides a crash program designed to rehabilitate
the treatment plant and improve the pressure distribution in the city by
reinforcing the trunk main, ADB also financed studies of the long-term
expansion of the Conakry water supply facilities. In March 1977, on ADB's
advice the Guinean Government requlested the Association's joint participation
with ADB in a first phase extension of the Conakry water system. It would be
the first involvement of the Bank Group in the Water and Sewerage sector. The
studies prepared were subsequently reviewed by two IDA missions in August and
November 1977, and upon completion of the feasibility phase, the project was



12
appraised in January ;.978 by ADB and IDA representatives. Most of the wo:-ks
of the crash program i'inanced under the ADB contribution in 1974 became
fully operative in January 1978.
3.02      In parallel to preparing water supply studies, the Government
retained t:he same consultants (COMTEC, Italy) to study drainage and sewage
disposal systems for Conakry. While the sewage disposal studies are sti:Ll
at a maste!r plan phase and are expected to require another year before a
decision can be made on the type and location of first phase irLvestments,
the drainage master plan was completed in January 1978.  At that time pr-
posals for urgent improvements to the existing drainage system were also
made.
3.03      The proposed project is the first part of long term requirements.
for water supply and drainage; it will neither be sufficient to fulfill all
investment needs beyond 1983 nor to catch up on all service deficiencies.
This project aims primnarily at establishing DEG as a viable organization., at
restoring a satisfactory level of service and giving appropriate sanitation
to most of Conakry's population.  A second water supply and sewage disposal
project will be necessary around 1983, particularly to expand 1the distribu-
tion faci:lities to the 40% who cannot be served under the proposed project.
Project Olbjectives
3.04      The objectives of the project can be summarized as follows:
(i)  to provide additional production capacity in the vicinity of
Conakry and thus to offer greater reliability to the water
system, now dependent on a single lengthy transmission pipe;
(ii)  to increase the transmission performance of the Yessoulou
gravity pipe now limited at the delivery of about 27,000
cubic meters daily;
(iii) to improve the performance of the trunk distribution system anid
extend the distribution network and water supply services to a
larger segment of the Conakry population who have limited or ro
access to piped water, either because of financial constraints.
(high costs of connection c'harges), lack of availability of equ:ip-
ment, or because the service does not cover the densely popul.,teed
areas of the city where public health hazards are potentially hLgh;
(iv)  to improve and strengthen the technical and financial capabil:ities
of DEG for both the project area and the secondary centers wh:i.ch it
takes over;
(v)  to rehabilitate and expand the Conakry drainage works and res.ore
the technical and administrative capability of the RAC's tech]r.ical
services responsible for the raaint:enance of the drainage netw:rk;
and
(vi) to prepare through appropriate studies and assistance: (a) a long
term development plan of the water supply and sanitation for -he



- 13 -
whole of Guinea, in line with targets proposed by the United Nations
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade; (b) the devel-
opment of water supply and sanitation schemes for urban centers;
(c) a policy to reduce dependency of Guinea on imported water
treatment chemicals and smaller diameter pipes.
Project Description
3.05      The principal elements of the water supply and drainage components
are illustrated on Map 13745. The major project components are as follows:
A.   Water Supply
(i) Drilling of seven boreholes in the Bassia and Kakimbon areas and
rehabilitation of three other boreholes; three of these new bore-
holes in addition to an existing one, all located in the Bassia
are expected to yield about 150 1/s and would be equipped now,
the other four would be equipped and connected to the system
around 1985 as the need for their uses arises; chemical analyses
on water samples from these boreholes indicate acceptable
mineralized and slightly acidic waters;
(ii) Installation of a booster station with pumps and a 400 mm diameter,
1.8 km long raw water transmission pipeline from the Kakimbon
area to the Kaloum treatment plant and storage site;
(iii) Construction of a treatment facility (chloxination, and pH adjust-
ment) and of a storage reservoir of 5000 m at the Kaloum site;
(iv)  Construction of a 5000 m  reservoir next to the existing Bellevue
reservoir;
(v) Purchase and installation of Yessoulou booster pumps totalling
500 1/s to boost the transmitting capacity of the transmission
I pipe from its gravity capacity of 330 l/s and set it in line with
the existing treatment capacity of about 500 l/s;
(vi) Rehabilitation of the pretreatment plant at Grandes Chutes and of
transmission pipelines from Yessoulou and Kakoulima to Conakry by
replacing lengths of pipes, blow off, air relief and sector valves;
(vii) Supply and laying of about 7.3 km of trunk distribution main
(0.7 km of 700 mm diameter, 2.7 km of 600 mm diameter, 1.9 km of
500 mm diameter and 2 km of 400 mm and smaller diameters) along
with distribution routes close to the reservoirs of Bellevue and
Kaloum;
(viii) Supply and laying of about 100 km of distribution pipes (60 to
100 mm diameter): (a) to extend the distribution network in
areas with insufficient network density (areas of Kolea, Boussoura,
Madina, Dixinn, Aviation and Ratoma), and (b) to replace existing
old and incrusted pipes in the Conakry I areas disposing of a
partly decayed network;



- 14 -
(ix)  Installation of some 160 public standpipes and associated dis:ri-
bution pipework in the high density areas, and at the periphe al
extent of the network, to supply population who cannot afford or
will be too far away to be connected to the distribution netwcrL;
(x)  Supply of about 4,500 water meters and material for 4,000 con-
nections for private subscribers;
(xi)  Construction and equipment of office space, training space, ard
houses to cater for increased staff and the expatriate assist<:.n-e
at DEG headquarters;
(xii)  Miscellaneous equipment such ELs compressors, office equipment a-d
vehicles (vans, trucks, bicycles to assist DEG in its day to da7
operations and work by force account) and various items for r(.ha-
bilitating the meter repairs and mechanics workshops; and
(xiii) Spare parts and chemicals required for DEG during the project' s
initial period (para. 5.06).
B.   Drainage and Sanitation
(i) Clearing, rehabilitating and cleaning drainage ditches on parts;
(ii)  Backfilling and protecting zones subject to continuous floodirig
and inundation for up to 6 months per year;
(iii)  Converting and extending the existing system of unlined ditches
to concrete drainage canals in three Conakry districts of higL
density population;
(iv)  Providing transport and equipment to the RAC technical service, 
to improve the maintenance of the existing and new drainage
network (para. 2.07);
(v)  Purchasing supplementary supply of chemicals and small vehiclE3 to
strengthen DPH's capability for well inspection and disinfectl:rL
(para. 1.10); and
(vi)  Installing about ten sanitary blocks consisting of the basic vlter
facilities for drinking, washing and cleansing purposes in Corlkry
II areas where people cannot afford these facilities in house.
This component would serve as a pilot experience to t.est the
people's willingness to use and assist in maintaining them.
C.   Consulting Services and Technica]L Assistance
(i) Services of an auditing company (6 man-months) to review curreit
accounting practices and audit the 1976 and 1977 accounts (par.:L.
5.18);



- 15 -
(ii)  Services of a commercial expert (4 man-months) to analyze current
practices in keeping customer files, meter reading, billing,
collecting and disconnecting, and review with DEG management
remedies and improvements to the present system (para. 5.09);
(iii) Services of five operations expatriates - a technical adviser
to DEG management, a distribution engineer, a meter repair and
mechanics technician, an electro-technician, a water treatment
technician - for about 11.5 man-years, to help DEG staff set up
appropriate operations and maintenance practices: these experts
should preferably be recruited from the same water supply entity
to ensure that a systematic and uniform approach is adopted in
the setting of the operational procedures; MIE has already
started consulting foreign water supply entities (para. 5.22);
(iv)  Provision for planning and accounting assistance (2 man-years)
within MIE and DEG respectively to work on recommendations
established during the WHO rapid assessment and by the auditors
(paras. 1.15 and 5.18);
(v) Detailed design and assistance of expatriate staff (11 man years)
to the project unit for contract preparation, bid evaluation and
construction supervision; and
(vi)  Studies to determine:  (a) availability and protection of ground-
water resources to supply Conakry; (b) feasibility of water supply
systems in seven secondary urban centers; (c) market of alumina
subproducts; (d) feasibility of a PVC pipe manufacturing unit;
(e) way of assisting and promoting local construction industry.
These studies totalling 11 man-years would be conducted under MIE's
responsibility under terms of reference discussed and agreed with
IDA.
D.   Training
(i) Services of a training officer (27 man-months) to help DEG set
up and to follow up a training program for the DEG labor force;
(ii)  Provision for setting up a training unit and staffing it with
local supervisors; and
(iii) Provision of about 20 man years of fellowships for: (a) 5
baccalaureate graduates to pursue 3 year university programs
abroad in public works and sanitary engineering; (b) 3 univer-
sity graduates to extend their education by a one-year in the
sanitary, urban hydraulics and water resources management
fields; (c) 12 DEG technicians to perform apprenticeship and
attend seminars at foreign water supply entities for about
2 months each.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates
3.06      The total estimated cost of the project is US$21.9 million inclacing
US$0.4 million of taxes, with an off-shore component of US$18.5 million (rable
3.1). A detailed breakdown is given in Annex 3.1. The cost est:imates for the
supply of equipment and civil engineering construction were established by
the consultant on the basis of preliminary designs. Unit costs were obtained
from similar works under construction by contractors working in Guinea anl
have been adjusted to price levels of January 1978. The cost estimates fDr
works to be carried oult by DEG's own forces for replacement of old pipes and
installation of connection were based on 1977 wages paid to DEG staff and
cost of materials incurred by DEG. The cost of the proposed studies and
technical assistance was estimated on the basis of recent consu:Ltancy con-
tracts for Guinea (Roads and Pineapple Project) and Bank experiences with
similar studies in Western Africa. Unit costs for consultants services and
technical assistance average US$7,500 monthly, ranging between '6,000 and
10,000 depending on thes qualification of staff required and the length of
their missions.
3.07      The physical contingency allowances were established for each
nature of work according to the anticipated difficulties and range of unc.e^-
tainties and they range from 8% for supply of pipes to 15% for drilling of
boreholes. Price contingencies for plant and equipment were based on current
estimates for the rate of international escalation. Estimated international
inflation rates were also used for estimating civil engineering construction
cost escalation since no local construction industry exists and local infla-
tion--not significant over the past years--may accelerate with the ongoing
liberalization of trade in Guinea. The annual price contingency allowances
are shown below:
Plant and Equipment               Ci-vil Works
1978                         10                             8
1979                          8                             8
1980                          8                             8
1981                          7                             8
1982                          7                             8
Apart from drainage works, all cost estimates shown are net of taxes
and duties, since the Government has agreed to exempt from the payment o'
duties all plant, materials and services imported for this project. Howev2r,
sanitation and drainage works will be tendered in small enough contracts to
permit Guinean state-owned cooperative contractors who can obtain their iaw
materials tax inclusive only to offer bids on this basis.  Taxes estimat.d at
US$0.4 million have therefore been included in the local cost of that cor.-
ponent.
Project Financing and IDA Credit
3.08      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$18.5 will be financed
by an IDA credit and an ADB loan, both made to the Government. ADB woulL
finance US$6.0 million and IDA would finance US$12.5 million, under parallel



GUINEA                                        TABLE 3.1
Water SUpply and Sanitation Project
Project Cost Estimates
Costs in 000 Sylis                CoSts in 000 Dollars          .           Participation (in 000 Dollars)
Local      Foreign    Total       Local       Foreign    Total          o           IDA        ADB        GOVt
____ ___ Total      _ _ _ _  _
Water Supply Equipment    2,589        84,668       87,257       131        4,233       4;334        20          2,230      2,003         131
Civil Works      30,241      76,184    106,425    1,512           3,809       5,321        24          1,547      2,262      1,512
SanLtation Equipment           220      5,400        5,620        11          270         281         1            270        -            11
Civil Works      11,800      25,190       37,590       590        1,290       1,880         8          1,290        -          590
Building Works              1,420       5,840        7,260        71          292          363        2            292        -            71
Training                    1,400        5,900       7,300        70          295          365        2            295        _            70 H
Tecthnlcal Assistance            0      32,000      32,000         0        1,600       1,600         7          1,600        -        .
Supervision & Studies            0     51,800       51,800         0        2,590       2,590        12          2,590        -            _
TOTAL           47,670    287,582    335,252    2,385           14,379      16,764        76         10,114      4,265      2,385
Contingencies
Physical          6,007      23,750       29,757       300        1,188       1L,488        7            673        515         300
Price            14,420      58,635       73,055       720        2,933       3,653        17          1,713      1,220         720
Total Project Costs        68,097    369,427    438,024    3,405           18,500      21,905       100         12,500      6,000       3,405



- 18 -
financing arrangements for selected separate components.  The Ail loaiti as
signed in October 1978.  Application of the IDA credit and ADB loan is ;hown
in detail below:
FINANCING PLAN
(US Million Dollars)
Internal Cash
Generation +
IDA   ADB   Government Contributio.-  Total
1. Water Supply
-  Investments                    4.7   6.0               2.4               13.1
Techn. Assist; Training        3.2    -                0.1               3.3
Sub-Total                   7.9   6.0               2-.5             16.4
2.  Sanitation                         2.3    -                0.9               3.2
3.  Sector Studies and Assistance   2.3                                          2.3
TOTAL                      12.5   6.0               3.4              21.9
3.09      The remaining tax inclusive local cost requirements of about U3$3.4
million will be met by a Government contribution from its own equipment )udget
and DEG's internal cash generation. Assurances have been obtained fror the
Government that the required portion of the $3.4 million will be made avail-
able to the project entity in quarterly advances in an account with thE Credit
National Bank.
Project Preparation Facility
3.10      To speed up the project preparation the Government obtained U13270,00DI
in May 1978 from the Association. This amount provided under the project prep-
aration facility (PPF) covers the following items:
(i) preparation of detailed design and bidding documents for the
drainage component;
(ii)  services of a commercial expert for 4 months and a training
officer for 3 months ahead of operations team (para. 3.04 C (ii)
and D(i));
(iii) audit of 1976 and 1977 DEG accounts (para. 3.04 C (i));
(iv)  preparation of detailed design and bidding documents, and sitc
supervision of the housing and office extension component (para.
3.04 C(v)),,
Advances made under the PPF would be refinanced out of the proposed IDA
credit.



- 19 -
Implementation
3.11      The physical components of the project will be implemented by a
Project Unit created within MIE; a Guinean project director with qualifi-
cations acceptable to the Bank has been appointed to head this unit. The
Government is conscious of its own staff weaknesses to efficiently supervise
the project and has requested the aid of consultants to assist them in this
supervision task.
Eleven man-years of consultants' services would be provided under
the project to assist the Guinean project director and engineers. The
positions would be:
(i) an engineer acting as technical adviser to the project director,
responsible for the day-to-day coordination and supervision of
all activities related to work carried out by the contractors;
(ii) two civil works technicians responsible with Guinean engineers
for the monitoring of works, execution, contracts and commission-
ing of new installations and equipment.
MIE has an existing agreement with COMTEC for the design and preparation of
bidding documents for the water supply component and for the feasibility
studies for the drainage component. MIE has requested COMTEC to proceed
with preparation of bidding documents for drainage; these engineering
services are funded under the PPF (para. 3.10). MIE is consulting engineer-
ing firms, including COMTEC, to assist the Project Unit with qualified staff
during the project implementation. The selected consultants should be hired
by March 1979 to assist in tender evaluation.
3.12      During negotiations, Government confirmed its agreement to the
recruitment of the above team of 3 expatriates. Appointment of these ex-
patriates would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.13      The project implementation schedule shown on Annex 3.2 has been
prepared with MIE and the consultants, and was further discussed during
negotiations. Tender calls for most of the supply and civil works contracts
would be launched in early 1979. The pipe replacement, and connection and
standpipe expansion programs will be designed and carried out throughout the
project by DEG's own forces. The various studies for which draft terms of
reference have been prepared with IDA's staff advice will be executed by
consultants under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
3.14      The Project Unit will also supervise sanitation and drainage works
executed under the project. Since RAC assumes responsibility for all these
works but cannot discharge it effectively, RAC had agreed in principle to
release its authority to the Project Unit for implementing these works.
Once completed, these works would be transferred to RAC for operation and
maintenance. RAC has notified MIE that it is transferring its supervising
role to the Project Unit for the project construction period.



- 20 -
Local Construction Industry
3.15      Foreign contractors locally implanted are expected to furnish m:st
if not all of the services for civil works. Although contracts for san:.ta-
tion civil works will be grouped to minimize costs, small lots for minor
items such as construction of drains, sanitary blocks, and concrete stard-
pipes will be introduced to allow the tendering from the state-owned cocp-
eratives which have limited their involvement until now to subcontractirg
from foreign contractors or minor private housing projects.
3.16      The following planned measures are expected to improve the ca:a-:ity
of the local construction industry:
(i)  preparation. of a report for the Government, identifying legal aad
financial measures to be taken for promoting developnent of a
local industry;
(ii)  provision cf a training course? for contractors covering such
topics as t:he role of contractors in the country's economy, b<E.s[c
principles of organization, planning, cost control, construct-ioa
techniques and productivity, financial management and cost estlima-
ting.  This course would be given in Guinea; it could be pattcraed
after the series of courses given for African Nations by the t.N
Economic Ccmmission for Africa; and
(iii)  training of civil works technicians at the Polytechnic Institiitc
of Civil Works financed under an IDA Education project approvcd
and signed in September 1978.
An amount of US$100,000 has been included in. the proposed project to firalce
items i and ii and the assistance of the UN Economic Commission for Afr.ca has
been requested.
Procurement
3.17      Procurement of goods and construction services to be financed fr-om
the credit will be by ICB and in accordance with the Bank Group guidelire3
for procurement (except for force account works worth US$600,000).  Contracts
for equipment and vehicles of less than Sylis 1 million (US$50,000) aggl:e,yat-
ing to not more than Sylis 10 million (IJS$500,000) would be awarded on i.he
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and procured through locaL
importing agents; these procedures are acceptable to IDA.  The items firan-ced
by ADB (the water supply component with the exception of secondary pipel]i-es
and connection materials) will be procured in accordance with their own
guidelines. Components such as pipe replacement, connection and meter :n-
stallation will be executed by DEG's own labor force under force account:,
and it is estimated that they will cost US$600,000.



- 21 -
Disbursement
3.18      The proposed IDA Credit of US$12.5 million would be disbursed
by IDA as follows:
(i)  the full CIF cost of supply of plant and equipment for
the water supply and sanitation equipment contracts;
(ii)  63% of net of tax expenditures on water supply civil
works contracts;
(iii) 80% of net of tax expenditures, or 69% of the total
tax inclusive expenditures on sanitation civil works
contracts;
(iv)  89% of the total expenditures on office and housing
contract;
(v)  100% of expenditures for consulting services, tech-
nical assistance and training material and education;
and for spare parts and supplies, up to US$600,000
(para. 5.06).
3.19      The total allocation of the credit to different types of expen-
ditures is shown below:
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds in US$ Thousands
Amount
i.   Supply of equipment and materials for water supply          1,825
ii.   Civil Works for water supply                                1,547
iii.   Civil Works for sanitation                                   1,370
iv.   Buildings                                                      292
v.   Consulting services                                         2,590
vi.   Technical assistance                                         1,600
vii.   Training material and education                                295
viii.   Provision for spare parts and supplies                         600
ix.   Unallocated                                                 2,381
Total                         12,500
Disbursement against each category will be fully documented. Disbursements
against works under force account in category (ii) will be made against cer-
tificates of expenditures and all justifications would be kept by DEG and
provided upon request to IDA supervision missions.



- 22 -
3.20      The estimated schedule of the IDA disbursements is shown below:
-------------------------------(US $ M1illion)------------------------------
Bank FY and   Cumulative   Percentage   Bank FY and   Cumulative   Percentage
Quarter    Disbursement   of total        Quarter    Disbursement   of 1:otal
1979                                       1982
3rd Quarter       0.20           1         1st Quarter       10.25        8:
4th Quarter       0.62          5          2nd Quarter       11.12        8'
3rd Quarter       11.50       9:.
4th Quarter       12.00       9(:
1980                                       1983
1st Quarter       1.37         11          1st Quarter       12.2.5       98
2nd Quarter       2.13         17          2nd Quarter       12.40        99
3rd Quarter       3.12         25          3rd Quarter       12.50       100
4th Quarter       4.25         34
1981
1st Quarter       5.50         44
2nd Quarter       6.62         53
3rd Quarter       7.87         63
4th Quarter       9.12         73
The closing date would be March 31, 1983.
Environmental and Pub:Lic Health Aspects
3.21      Protection of Source of Water Suppl_
Extraction of ground water wil:L be closely monitored to prevent: any
pollution risks derived from urban development in neighboring areas.  The:. -wo
sites where rehabilitation and extension of ground water pumpage are fore.seen
have private construct:ion in their immediate vicinity.  Although the aquifers
tapped are protected by impermeable formations, there is a minor risk tha.t
these formations could. be fractured locally and transmit surface runoff
without adequate filtration.  Field investigation by Bank consu-Ltants have
confirmed that long term pumping tests would be necessary to determine tE 
extent and location of ground water recharge areas and to closely monitor
quality of water and risks for pollution from urbanized areas. Systemati:
water quality sampling would be pursued on the operation boreholes, once
they are completed. The proposed project includes provisions for undertal<ing
these early pumping tests and constructing sanitary protection around bore-
holes sites. The Government has agreed in principle to establishing a pe:-i-
meter of protection around boreholes, to stopping all housing construction
around designated sites, and to evicting squatters living too close to th'>
boreholes. The Ministry of Public Works has published a decree prohibiti:ig



- 23 -
further construction around designated pumpage areas. During negotiations
the Government agreed to further review the case and publish appropriate
legislation on protection of the services once the final position of the
boreholes is known and the risks of pollution have been assessed.
3.22      Waterborne diseases are prevalent in Conakry and the sanitation
situation remains precarious in many densely populated areas poorly served
with piped water. The provision of a safe water to a substantially greater
segment of the population, together with an increased activity of preventive
hygiene services will reduce the dependence on contaminated water sources.
It is anticipated that through the large increase of standpipes ensuring
alternative safe sources of supply, the public health authorities will be
able to effectively close the wells which appear to be the principal sources
of waterborne diseases. The provision of chemicals and fleet vehicles to
DPH services for well inspection and disinfection (para. 1.10) will also
ensure better monitoring of the water quality of the remaining open wells
and of hazardous health locations. While these authorities are committed
to closing wells in areas with reasonable access to piped water, they are
reluctant to do so under the existing poor service level of piped water
systems and limited their intervention to highly contaminated wells. During
negotiations the Government confirmed it will ask DPH to close wells in
areas with reasonable access to piped water.
3.23      The increase of water supply would lead to an increase of waste
water (sullage). This should not result in appreciable pollution or other
environmental problems in areas now served with sewers. In the most dense
areas with no sewage disposal system, it is expected that most people would
initially be served through public standpipes so that their per capita con-
sumption will remain relatively low and not seriously aggravate sanitation
problems; some of these people would also experience the use of sanitary
blocks with wash sinks, showers and toilets with proper disposal facilities.
Location of these blocks will be based on Government's recommendations fol-
lowing an ongoing social analysis in various PRLs. The sewage disposal prob-
lems of Conakry are under detailed review and the Government envisages to
follow up completion of this water supply project by a more significant
attempt to improve waste disposal facilities. The Government confirmed that
it would ask RAC to provide adequate maintenance for the sanitary blocks.
CHAPTER IV
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
4.01      The primary benefits of the water supply and drainage facilities to
be constructed under this project would be an improvement in health resulting



- 24 -
from the substitution of safe potable water for water taken from contaminated
wells and surface water sources together with the removal of contaminatefd
waste and storm water from the neighborhoods. Improvements in health through
the reduction of water borne and water washed diseases would lead to a reduc-
tion in lost time from work and increased productivity as well as a red..cntion
in medical costs.
4.02      The institution building components of the project, f.raining and
technical assistance, would better equip DEG and MIE to plan, construct,
and operate the Conakry water supply system which must double :Ln capacity by
1983 and in addition would enable these two entities takeover other centers
including seven new systems in secondary centers by 1982 for which finanz:.ng
of feasibility studies is included in the Project.
Drainage
Least Cost Solution
4.03      The choice of a separate storm water drainage/sanitary sewer sfstem
is the least cost solution given the geography of Conakry and the intense
rainfalls of short duration.  The cost: savings normally achieved with a :cm-
bined system would not be realized because of high volumes of storm wate,
which would have to be collected and transported in large diameter pipes
along the axis of the peninsula with treatment and discharge into the sea at
one or two locations as opposed to collection in separate drains of smal LEr
cross section with discharge at multiple points along the shoreline of tie
peninsula. Maintenance cost of a combined system would be high in the d:^y
season because the low volume sewage flows would be insufficiert to ensuv-e
a self cleaning actioII.
4.04      The cost of sizing drains to handle run-off water resulting fr:)m
rains of intensity ancd duration that could be expected to occur every 4-.0
years is about 6% greater than sizing for the lower volume that could be
expected to occur each year. In view of the increased protection againsvl
flooding at a small irncrease in cost, the 4-1.0 year volume has been reta:.ned
as the design criterion.
Cost Recovery
4.05      No mechanism exists at the present time for cost recovery for
drainage. The consultants are currently studying possible means of cost
recovery to finance the drainage program that is being prepared (para. 1.12).
In view of the need to finance all forms of infrastructure in Conakry an(:
other centers (roads, low cost housing, solid waste removal) a comprehen:.ive
strategy for cost recovery will be required. The development of this st:ategy
would be discussed with the Government during project implementation.
Justification
4.06      The drainage component of this project is justified on the bas:.s
of the immediate need for improved sanitation and the reduction in breed:iny



- 25 -
grounds for malaria mosquitoes in the high density, low income areas which
have been accorded first priority in the long term sewerage and drainage
program (para. 2.14). The avoidance of losses and damage to private and
public property, roads and buildings, although not quantified, would be addi-
tional benefits of the drainage component.
Water Supply
Least Cost Solution
4.07      The consultants have analyzed the long term possibilities for raw
water supply to the year 2000 and have demonstrated, using a 10% discount
rate, that the optimum development strategy involves the use of proven
ground water resources at Bassia and Kakimbon, the installation of a booster
station on the existing pipeline from Grandes Chutes, and the rehabilitation
of the facilities at Kakoulima prior to the construction of a second 80 km
long gravity pipeline from Grandes Chutes in about 1988. Additional ground
water sources exploitable at a lower discounted cost, despite the need for
pumping, may be found near Conakry as an alternative to the second raw water
pipeline from Grandes Chutes; however, further hydrogeological studies will
be required to establish this option. The consultants did not shadow price
the foreign exchange component of the alternative solutions; however, the
proportion of foreign costs is approximately 80% in all cases and the choice
of the least cost solution is not affected by this omission.
4.08      It is difficult to estimate the opportunity cost of capital in
Guinea at present given the lack of a defined portfolio of investment oppor-
tunities. The opportunity cost of capital has been taken as 10% on the basis
of comparison with neighboring countries. A lower rate is unlikely given the
acute shortage of capital and the investment possibilities which are begin-
ning to appear. The choice of least cost solution for the supply source is,
however, unaffected by the use of a higher discount rate.
Rate of Return
4.09      The internal economic rate of return (IER) on the investment program
to 1988 has been calculated as the discount rate which equalizes the present
value of incremental costs and benefits. Costs include the initial capital
and equipment replacement cost plus operating and maintenance cost net of
all taxes and duties of:
-    facilities provided by the project for expansion and
rehabilitation;
-    technical assistance;
-    standpipes; and
-    additional distribution facilities following the project
completion in 1982 to distribute the water produced by
the Kakimbon boreholes provided by the project but to
be equipped in 1985.



-- 26 -
Benefits have been evaluated as the revenues to be obtained from the sales,
at the present uniform tariff of 8 Sylis/m , of incremental water dist-ibuted
from the project facilities allowing for the improvement in the ratio of
sales/production rising from the present 65% to 78% by 1985 and remain:ing
constant thereaftere  House connections have not been included in costs or
revenues since their cost will be recovered fully at the time of insta-la-
tion.
4.10      The cost of repairing or replacing the Grandes Chutes dam ha;. not
been included in the economic analysis because this expenditure is fully
justified as part of the long term least cost solution for power produc:tion.
Using the most pessimistic set of assumptions, the cost of replacing tl:.e dam
is roughly estimated at $8 million while the rehabilitation cost of the!
generating equipment is about $1 mil:lion. Further assuming t'hat the 4 x 4.5
MW turbines and generating units would require replacement in 15 years a;
$200/kw installed capacity, the average incremental cost per kcwh produced at
50% load factor would be about $0.014/kwh or about one-quarte.r the cost of
equivalent thermal generation at a 10% cost of capital.
4.11      In view of the over-valuati'on of the local currency., the forei;n
exchange component, approximately 80%' of total investment and operating
costs, has been shadow priced at 35 Sylis/$.  (The official rate is 20
sylis/$).  This shadow rate is based on the evaluation of agricultural
production at official prices and at rural subregion prices where trade is
less restricted than in the urban centers. The black market exchange raite
for illegally traded and illegally imported consumer goods is currently about
85 sylis. Since it ils difficult to determine the risk and scarcity premy:iums
associated with the black market rate, the agriculturally based shadow 4c!x-
change rate has been used as a first approximation.
4.12      The internal economic rates ofE return under different assumpt::o7s
are shown in the table below:
Internal economic
rate of return %
- base case at shadow rate 35 Sylis/$                     7
- capital cost + 20%                                      6
- demand growth at 9%/year (high rate)                    8
- demand growth at 6%/year (low rate)                     6
- operation and maintenance cost +20%                     6
- base case at official exchange rate                    16
If a shadow exchange rate of 55 Sylis/$ is used, the IER becomes 0%.  Thru
IER is clearly more sensitive to changes in the shadow exchange rate ass. Med
than to changes in demand or costs. T'he IER as calculated, however, und,-r-
states the real IER since it is not pcssible to quantify the health bene:.its
to be realized from the increased supply of safe water nor to determine ::he
consumer surplus, i.e. the willingness to pay a price greater than 8 Sylis,'m



- 27 -
Pricing Considerations
4.13      The system of administered prices, the restrictions on imports, and
the overvaluation of the Syli reduce the relevance of the long run marginal
cost (LRMC) of water supply as a guide to tariff setting in order to achieve
efficient resource allocation. The average incremental cost of water (AIC)
taken as a proxy for the LRMC has been estimated for reference nevertheless.
For the period 1978-88 the AIC is about 9 Sylis/m3 but would rise to about
12 Sylis/m in 1988 when a second 40 km pipeline from Grandes Chutes would
be required. I/
4.14      The relationship between the water tariff and incomes is of greater
relevance in the Guinean context in discouraging the wastage of water while
at the same time ensuring that access to water via house connections is not
limited solely to the highest income groups. Both the house connection policy
and the price per cubic meter are significant in this respect.
House Connection Policy
4.15      At present, new connections have two separate aspects, namely,
(1) extension of the tertiary network, and (2) the connection from the network
to the meter within the property. When extensions become necessary to satisfy
requests for new connections DEG now charges 80% of the cost (supplies and
labor) to one of the customers having asked for a connection. This customer
may recover part of the amount from other new customers connected to the same
network extension.
4.16      Despite the specific provisions in DEG's cahier des charges gover-
ning the fees to be charged for house connections, the de facto policy
requires each customer to obtain the necessary materials (including the
associated valves and fittings), to connect to the distribution network which
may be as far away as 300 m; the sole supplier is SOGUILEC, the state enter-
prise responsible for the import of electrical and plumbing equipment. DEG
then provides the construction labor to make the connection, often billing
more than the real cost. The total cost to the customer for a house connec-
tion is about 12,000 sylis. In order to ensure a more rational development
of the distribution network, which would otherwise be composed of an increa-
sing proportion of small diameter pipe, and to provide house connections at
a lower cost, sector representatives agreed that starting with the project,
house connections would be limited to a maximum of 25 m and installed using
materials obtained by DEG, at a price that reflects the actual cost incurred.
This cost is not expected to exceed 6,000 sylis per connection. The policy of
full cost recovery at the time of connection would be retained at least for
the first three years of the project in order to tap the willingness and
1/   The pipeline and treatment facilities would provide for about nine years
of growth in demand at an average growth rate of 7.5%. The AIC cost
estimates are based on 1978 constant prices, a shadow exchange rate of
35 sylis/$ and a 10% opportunity cost of capital.



- 28 --
ability of higher income consumers to pay and to provide a rationing mechanism
so that the demand for connections would not exceed DEG's ability to make ):he
instaiiations.  Until the institutiona.L improvements and training component:s
of the project have had time to become effective, DEG's capability is expected
to be limited to about 800 connections per year. Currently, there is a
waiting list of over 400 persons demanding hoase connections despite the
present high cost.
Consumer Ability to Pay
4.17     I]nformation concerning the distri'bution of available monthly ineOme
is 1limited to a sample of 100 households taken in two areas of Conakry by the
UNCDF urbart study mission in December 1977.  The sample results and concl.A-
sions were reviewed with the Ministry of Plan and are considered to be re:pre-
sentative for all of Ccnakry. The distribution is as follows:
Available fa.mily income                      % of families
Sylis/inonth                    proportion        cumulative
0 - 2,000                                 10                10
2 - 3,000                                 10                20
3 - 55000                                 30                50
5 - 7,000                                 25                75
7- 10,000                                 18                93
10 - 15,000                                 5                98
>- 15,000                                  2                100
4.18      One month's income is normally the maximum amount affordable for a
house connectior.. At a price of 6,000 sylis, individual house connections
would be affordable by the upper 40% incomfe group.  There is widespread evi.-
dence of sharing of courtyard taps, a practice which will be encouraged by
the Government through the PRL's (para. 2.08) so that access to courtyard
taps could be obtained by 80% of families having monthly incomes of at least
3,000 sylis, assuming that two families share the connection cost.
4.19      The cost of monthly water bills is not excessive at a rate of
8 sylis/m .  The average family size is about 9 persons and assuming a per
capita daily consumption of 50 lcd - more than sufficient for basic needs -
the cost wou!Ld be about 4% of a monthly -income of 3,000 sylis. For familie3
in the income range 6,000 - 10,000 Sylis/'month (60th-93rd percenti"le) the
specific consumption range corresponding to 4% of monthly inicome would be
90 - 180 lcd, volumes which are comparable with other West African cities.
4.20      Service to those unable to afford house connections or until DEG
is able to install connections would be provided by 160 standpipes to be
constructed under the Project in addition to the 102 already in service.
RAC is currently paying for the cost of water supply from standpipes.  The
Government agreed during negotiations that RAC will provide sufficient fund.
to pay for standpipe cons;umption.  The terms of reference for the tariff stUdy



- 29 -
(para. 4.21) would specify the investigation of a possible surcharge on the
price per cubic meter sold via house connections as an alternative means of
paying for standpipe water. This form of cross-subsidization would be appro-
priate in Guinea since house connections will initially be limited to the
upper 50% income group whose consumption tends to rise with income.
4.21     3For the reasons cited above, effective April 1978, the tariff of
8 Sylis/m , is satisfactory from both an economic and social point of view.
In any event, it is double the previous tariff and represents a significant
change in the policy of the Government to maintain the water tariff at an
unrealistically low level. However, because of the financial losses in-
curred in the secondary centers, the Government's policy to maintain a uni-
form national tariff and the desire to implement eventually a social block
for low income consumers and provide house connections whose cost would be
recovered through the price per m3 of water, agreement has been obtained
that DEG will undertake a tariff study, according to terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, to be completed by June 30, 1981. This study would be
carried out and financed as part of the preparation for a possible second
Bank water project.
Access to Water by Urban Poor
4.22      In view of the present low level of service in Conakry all those
unserved by the piped network can be considered as relatively poor, which at
present is about 59% of the population or about 320,000 persons at year end
1977. Service levels tend to be better in the old European section of Conakry
I, however, the increase in population density since independence without
a corresponding expansion of house connections and standpipes still leaves
about 25% of the population there without reasonable access and results in
the widespread use of wells. Throughout Conakry II, lack of service tends to
be uniform and about 70% of the population is unserved. Priority areas for
the extension of the distribution network in Conakry II have been established
on the basis of population density so that the greatest number of people can
be served as quickly as possible at the lowest per capita cost. Standpipe
service is an essential part of this strategy. The number of persons served
by standpipes would rise from about 98,000 (18% of total population) in 1977
to about 247,000 or 34% of the population at the end of the project in 1982,
however, 40% of the population (290,000) in 1982 would still remain unserved
by standpipes or house connections at that time, and would be the target
group for a second water supply project (para. 3.03).
CHAPTER V
THE BENEFICIARY
Organization and Management
5.01      DEG is organized as a state enterprise of the industry and energy
sector. It owns and operates the water networks in Conakry and the secondary



- 3iD -
centers (except the mining towns) and the sewerage network in Conakry, lut
not the drainage systems (see para. 5.28). DEG was founded in 1961, r?placing
the former CompagniE! Africaine de Services Publics. It operates as a ,;bsi-
diary of Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie (OCOFI), the tolding
company of the industry and energy sector. DEG's Director General is appointed
by decree, as is its Accounting Manager.
5.02      DEG's responsibilities are limited by the involvement of oth:ir
institutions in the water sector. Sector planning is done by the plan:ing
department of the Ministry of Industry and Energy.  New installations  .nd
extensions are constructed under the financial responsibility of the Ministry
of Plan and the technical supervision of the MIE and transferred to DEC 'hen
completed.  Foreign borrowing for finarncing new installations is handl(d by
the Central Bank of Guinea. Cash is collected by, or has to be transferred
to, OCOF:[, the MIE sector holding, except a petty cash fund of Sylis 5(,)00
(US$2,500). Assurance has been obtained from the Guinean Government tlat
this amount can be increased on DEG's request.  Hiring of personnel ha- *o
be approved by the Ministry of Labor.  Also, salaries and salary increases
are decided on a national level by this Ministry. Water tariffs are set by
MIE, in agreement with other Ministries and the Head of State.
5.03      DEG's bylaws covering operating regulations and legal recourse
in case of damage to plant and equipment, theft of service (i.e., illeFal
connections) and non--payment of billed services have not been updated Eintce
Guinea's independence. During negotiations the Government submitted a Iraft
of DEG's new bylaws :.or comment by the Association.  Agreement: has been
obtained that follow:Lng reception of IDA comments, the revised bylaws would be
enacted by June 30, 1979.
5.04      The current organization struczture is shown in Annex 5-1.  Th;
secondary centers report directly to the General Manager and require hi.
detailed involvement in their operation's which is impractical. Some ne:kded
functions are nonexistent or inadequate.. Little communication and coop-ra-
tion exist among the various departments. At present, DEG is not suffi:iantly
prepared for the planned expansion of the water supply and sewerage
sector in Conakry and the rest of the country.  DEG's management is aware of
these problems.  A revised organization chart (Annex 5-2) was discussed with
DEG's management during appraisal; first steps for its implementation are'
being made.  During negotiations, it was agreed that DEG will continue ti:'s
reorganization.
"A priori" Expenditure Controls
5.05      All purchases over Sylis 10,000 (US$500) effected by DEG need ir
"a priori"' approval from OCOFI and the State Control Ministry.  As durin,)
coming yeiars this limit may become too low and day to day operations cou.-d
be hampered by delays in obtaining the approvals, assurance has been obttined
from the Government t[iat the limit for purchases without "a priori" appro'vals
will be raised by DEG.  During negotiations the Government confirmed thi
agreement.,



- 31 -
Foreign Exchange for Parts and Supplies
5.06      It is felt that past poor maintenance has partly been caused by
the difficulties in obtaining allocation of scarce foreign exchange funds
for the purchase of spare parts. Therefore, IDA suggested and the Guinean
Government agreed during negotiations to grant lump-sum import licences to DEG
of US$ 600,000 - for each of the year 1979, 1980 and 1981 covering spare parts
and other supplies. For each of the first two years IDA's contribution would
be US$300,000 to help replenish stocks of spare parts and chemicals; this
contribution will be credited to a special foreign exchange account. The
Government will also contribute US$300,000 for each of these years, and
US$600,000 for 1981. On DEG's request, Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
will then open letters of credit to the foreign suppliers within the limits
of the annual import licences, thereby simplifying the otherwise lengthy
administrative procedures. For the years following 1981, the Government has
agreed to grant similar annual lump-sum import licences of appropriate amounts
to DEG. Opening a special account by Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Meter Reading, Billing and Collection
5.07      Meter reading is very unsystematic.  Most water meters are not
working, many of them damaged purposely. DEG has started, although erra-
tically, a meter replacement campaign. Many existing connections are not
recorded in the customer files. In many cases consumption is marked on
meter reading cards without being actually read. Supervision of the meter
reading employees is weak. Large consumers are billed monthly, the others
quarterly. Billing is processed on the computer of the Ministry of Plan.
Because of the deficiencies referred to above eighty to ninety percent of
the customers are billed estimated water quantities.
5.08      DEG collects from private, OCOFI from public sector customers.
Collection efforts are very weak in spite of existing up-to-date, individual
customer accounts kept by the district offices showing clearly amounts billed,
payments received, and the outstanding balance. Many customers have not paid
for more than two years, and disconnection policies are hardly enforced.
There have even been instances when disconnected customers continued to
receive invoices. Uncollected amounts at the end of 1977 were Sylis 21.7
(US$1.1) million, corresponding to about 7 months of billing, part of which
is likely to be uncollectible. Agreement has been reached that collection
will be improved and total outstanding customer balances reduced to 4 months
billing by end 1980 and that this level will not be exceeded thereafter.
5.09      The Government has agreed with IDA's proposal that DEG be soon
assisted in reorganizing its metering, meter reading, billing and collection
procedures by a commercial expert. This consultant would effect several
consecutive missions of limited length to Conakry to recommend the necessary
changes and follow up on their implementation. The cost of these missions
estimated at US$40,000 has been included in the Project Preparation Facility
(para. 3.10).



- 32 -
Accounting
5.10      DEG prepares monthly and annual financial statements, based on
accrual accounting principles, using the national chart of accounts which
has been derived from the former French chart of accounts. Revenue and
expense breakdowns by regional centers are prepared annually. The records
are kept manually at present.
5.11      DEG's present Chief Accountant is sufficiently qualified.  He is
assisted by a staff of nine accounting clerks whose training seems generally
adequate.  Assistance by expatriate personnel does not seem necessary at this
stage. However, the proposed project includes 12 man months of assistance to
the financial department by external consulting or auditing firms to improve
systems and address deficiencies revealed by audits (para. 3.05 C (iv)).
5.12      DEG keeps a fixed assets register which is based on historical
acquisition costs. Performance of a physical inventory of fixed assets has
been included in the auditors' terms of reference (para 5.18). Agreement
has been obtained that DEG will revalue its fixed assets in operation annually
for the purpose of rate of return calculations, using revaluation methods
acceptable to IDA, and submit revalued fixed assets data with its annual
financial statements within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year, starting
with the year ending December 31, 1980. This revaluation would have to take
into consideration the physical state of the existing assets.
5.13      Depreciation is calculated for all fixed asset items based on the
straight line method. Annual percentages are in line with generally accepted
practices; however, in view of the poor maintenance the auditors have been
asked to review validity of the rates used. In 1976 and 1977, only part of
the annual depreciation was included in the financial statements (para. 6.05).
The data given in this report have been adjusted for the omitted depreciation
amounts.
5.14      No separate accounts are kept for sewerage operations.  At present,
they represent only a minor part of DEG's activities (para. 1.08). As in
the future capital expenditures and current costs may be more significant,
agreement was reached during negotiations that DEG will keep separate accounts
starting fiscal year 1980. A similar agreement has been obtained for RAC's
drainage operations, see para. 5.28.
5.15      DEG does not account for, or finance, fixed assets under construc-
tion.  This function is assigned to the Ministry of Plan which finances new
capital expenditures, puts them at the disposal of DEG (through OCOFI) and,
as an offsetting entry, increases simultaneously the Government contribution
to DEC. During negotiations assurances were obtained that records will be
kept in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for all
expenditures related to the proposed project.
5.16      The Ministry of Plan also administers borrowing and assumes related
debt service in local currency by reimbursing the Central Bank inasmuch as
the Central Bank services the external debt in foreign currency. In DEG's



- 33 -
accounts, all fixed assets are financed by Government contributions, and no
borrowing is recorded. In order to set a better basis for planning sector
borrowing and related debt service, agreement has been reached that DEG will
keep separate pro-forma accounts for all debt--including the proposed IDA
credit--incurred after the end of 1977 for financing its assets. These
accounts would be kept separate from DEG's official accounts which together
would reflect the consolidated financial position of the water sector. For
the proposed IDA credit pro-forma accounts would assume the current Bank
interest rate and a 25-year term including 5 years grace. This term is normal
in the water utility sector and the grace period corresponds with the project
implementation period. Details on the foreign debt incurred in the past are
given in para. 6.11.
5.17      OCOFI, the holding company of some 36 enterprises composing the
industry and energy sector under the responsibility of MIE, performs the
treasury function for DEG and monitors its financial performance and account-
ing. Under present regulations the annual net income and an amount equal to
annual depreciation have to be transferred, through the sector holding com-
pany OCOFI, to the Ministry of Plan. However, OCOFI was only given the
status of a sector holding company beginning 1976 and is not yet fully
staffed and organized to fulfill all of its responsibilities. The effi-
ciency of this organizational arrangement will be monitored during project
supervision and, if possible means of improvement are observed they will
be suggested to the Government.
Audits
5.18      DEG's financial statements as of December 31, 1976 and 1977 have
been audited by the Casablanca Office of Price Waterhouse, based on terms
of reference reviewed by IDA and financed by an IDA Project Preparation
Facility. The audit included also an analysis of DEG's financial function
and identification of improvements necessary in its accounting systems and
procedures. Annual statements of all state enterprises are audited on be-
half of the Guinean Government by the Ministry of State Control. They are
presented at the annual National Economic Conference which is normally held
in February and chaired by the Head of State. Agreement has been reached
that DEG will submit to IDA, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year,
financial statements audited by the Ministry of State Control or, in case
such audits are not performed or not sufficiently detailed, by other auditors
acceptable to IDA. For each of the audits of the statements of 1978, 1979
and 1980, it has been also agreed that an audit of two man months performed
by an international accounting firm acceptable to the association would be
financed through the proposed credit.
Planning and Budgeting
5.19      While capital expenditures are planned by the Ministry of Industry
and Energy (para. 1.09), DEG prepares annual revenue and expense budgets, to
be approved by OCOFI. However, budgets do not well reflect DEG's operations
and cannot be considered a decision making tool. It has been agreed that DEG
will define its planning and budgetary control function and assign it to one
of its managers by mid 1979. Agreement has also been obtained that DEG will



- 34 -
submit for review by IDA (1) annual operating and investment :udgets nc Later
than one month before the beginning of the fiscal year, starting with the 1980
budgets, and (2) quarterly reports including technical and financial mon:.tor-
ing indicators (para. 6.27) beginning end March 1979.
Insurance
5.20       Guinean law requires DEG to have insurance for third. party liabil-
ity, fire and other risks to property and inventories and vehicle insuraince.
At present, none of these risks is insured but it has been agreed that DEG
will obtain appropriate insurance coverage from Societe Nationale d'Assurance
et de Reassurance.
Operations and Maintenance
5.21       Operation of the water treatment plant of Yessoulou which has
recently been rehabilitated is not optimal, and maintenance suffers fronl
neglect and poor organization.  Similar facilities in secondary centers,
although mrLore sophisticated and requiring greater expertise, are run by
technicians of lower grade without any significant experience in electri zal
and mechanical maintenance or treatment plant operation.  The Conakry traiLs-
mission and distribution facilities have been under the responsibility o 
DEG's technical director. They have suffered from the shortage of experL-
enced supervisors and from lack of organization and spare parts. Distri't.-
tion facilities are no longer operated according to accepted practice bui: in
reaction to crises ancl are not systematically maintained and repaired. Jerk-
shops have deteriorated. The proposed project would include the necessary
rehabilitation and improvements to workshops and the financing of needed
maintenance equipment and standard spare parts.
Technical Assistance
5.22       Both the Minister of Industry and Energy and DEG's Director agreed
that the existing operations and maintenance problems could not be overccne
without hiring an expatriate team of technical assistants.  The project wrauld
finance the following experts:
(1) a technical advisor to the diLrector,
(2)  a water distribution engineer,
(3) a water treatment technician,
(4)  an electromechanics technician,
(5)  a meter repair and mechanics workshop technician, and
(6) a training of'ficer.



- 35 -
These advisors would report to the General Manager of DEG.  In addition to
implementing appropriate operations and maintenance procedures in their respec-
tive fields, the five technical experts would also contribute to the training
program (see para. 5.27). The project would provide for a total of 14 man
years of expatriate assistance. These proposals were discussed with Govern-
ment and DEG officials during the project appraisal. Terms of reference for
the team of expatriates have been prepared by DEG and IDA staff and consulta-
tions between MIE and foreign water enterprises for the secondment of these
experts are underway. During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(i) MIE will sign a contract not later than January 31,
1979, with a foreign water supply enterprise that
would second six experts to DEG with qualifications
and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA;
signing of this contract is a condition of effective-
ness of the Credit Agreement; and
(ii) these experts would start work in DEG by March 31,
1979.
Staffing
5.23      DEG has a total staff of about 280, of whom six occupy managerial
and nine supervisory positions. Until recently, the entity was particularly
short of technical staff, and remains critically short of technicians and
supervisors. Many of the newly recruited engineers have had little experience
before assuming their present responsibilities. Whereas DEG employed expa-
triate technical staff upon commissioning of the Conakry system in 1965,
most of the staff that benefited from their training and example have since
left the entity. The present shortage of Guinean qualified technical staff
is likely to continue until professional education becomes more advanced
in Guinea.
5.24      Compared to senior staff, the labor force has much longer service.
Most of the manual workers have been with the water enterprise for 10 years
or more, and those serving longest have acquired their skills and competence
working with CASP, the water enterprise that preceded DEG. Several of these
workers have reached supervisory positions and are close to retirement age.
A rough calculation for Conakry shows that there are about 39 employees
per 1,000 connections. This denotes a certain overstaffing compared to
the present workload and also to other West African water utilities (e.g.
Senegal 24; Ivory Coast 17 employees/1,000 connections). The workload will
increase significantly during the execution of the project; however, new
recruitment should be kept to a minimum by training and redeploying existing
staff. The secondary centers are overstaffed, too, but this will correct
itself with expanding operations. During negotiations agreement was reached
that DEG submit a manpower development plan to IDA before January 1, 1980,
relating its training program to the manpower requirements on each skill
level, in order to achieve staff efficiency objectives in line with the
monitoring indicators (number of staff/1,000 registered connections) given
in Annex 6-8.



- 36 -
Training
5.25      The need for appropriate training was acknowledged by all DEG
managers and supervisors.  There is no organized training in DEG, and tlle~-e
is lack of technical education facilities in Guinea.  The limited oversea,
training for engineers does not appear coordinated nor very successful.
At the subprofessional level, the missing training opportunities hamper
reassignment and promotion of staff. Consequently, staff moraLe is low,
which, together with inadequate supervision, results in poor operating and
maintenance procedures. The most important improvement in the field of
technical education is the First IDA Education Project, provid-ing two poly-
technic institutes.  'Both will train instructors and introduce techniques.
and materials related to the water and sewerage sector among ot:hers.  HowEver,
they will not become operational during the implementation period of the
water and sewerage project and therefore wil:L not address the training n.Eds
of DEG. Therefore, a water sector related training program is needed wi:thin
DEG. However, it is important that such a program be closely coordinated
to the national training program if duplicat41on of efforts is to be avoitded.
5.26      The training program to be implemaernted under the present project
would consist of:
(i) a review of the qualifications of DEG's subprofessional,
technical, administrative and financial staff to deter-
mine its training need and potential;
(ii) implementation of training modules to develop the
necessary skills and knowledge;
(iii) provision of training rooms, aids and manuals including
demonstration and pilot facilities in DEG's marshalling
yards;
(iv) arrangement of short-term training programs and fellow-
ships as mentioned in para. 3.C5, D (iii);
(v) hiring of an expatriate to prepare the review under
li), and to conduct a 27-month training program; and
(vi)  subsequent integration of the DEG training program
into the institutions provided by the IDA Education
Project.
5.27      The above training program wculd be organized by an expatriate
hired for this purpose and assisted by the other expatriate technical assIs-
tants (para. 5.22).  The training expert would start his term in March 1979,
to establish training requirements with the sector authorities.  These
proposals have been discussed with sector and Ministry of Education repre-
sentatives. All parties have agreed to the proposed scheme and its imple-
mentation.  Detailed terms of reference for the training advisor have beev



- 37 -
agreed with DEG and the Government, and consultations for his secondment
are underway with foreign water authorities.
Management of the Conakry Drainage System
5.28      The beneficiary of the proposed drainage component would be RAC.
Due to lack of qualified staff, RAC's technical department would temporarily
delegate the responsibility for project execution to MIE's Project Unit (para.
3.14) and meanwhile focus on operating and cleaning the existing drainage
network and on strengthening its drainage division. The recent centraliza-
tion of responsibilities for this sector in RAC's drainage division (para.
2.07) should lead to improved planning, more efficient use of personnel and
equipment, and more effective action in flooded areas during the rainy season.
Assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Government will provide
sufficient operating funds for RAC's drainage operations, and that RAC will
(i) adequately staff its drainage division by end 1979; (ii) submit its annual
drainage expenses and investment budgets for review by IDA, starting with the
1979 budget; and (iii) set up adequate accounts for its drainage operations
during 1979.
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01      The proposed IDA credit would be lent to the Governnent of Guinea.
After construction, the installations would be transferred to and operated
by DEG whose financial position is analyzed below. DEG's operations consist
essentially of water supply, sewerage being restricted to part of Conakry
only (para. 1.08). RAC's drainage operations (para. 2.07) are of minor
financial importance at present.
6.02      Income statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets for
the years 1974 to 1977 have been prepared by the appraisal mission based on
DEG's financial statements, adjusted for partly omitted 1976 and 1977 depre-
ciation of fixed assets. Projections for the years 1978 to 1984 were prepared
by the IDA mission together with DEG officials. They include sector debt to
be contracted after 1977 on pro-forma basis, including the proposed IDA credit
(para. 5.16). For the Conakry operations of DEG separate income figures have
been estimated for the period 1976 to 1984. These statements and underlying
assumptions are shown in Annexes 6-1 to 6-5. For details on DEG's accounting
procedures see paras. 5.10-5.17.
Past and Present Financial Performance
6.03      The following figures summarize DEG's earnings situation, including
secondary centers (US$ million):



- 38 -
--------Actual----------    Estimate
1974   1975   1976   1977        1978
15 months
Water Sales                                1.4    1.7    1.5    1.6         2.5
Sewerage and Other                         0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2         0.2
Total Revenues                        1.5    1.9    1.6    1.8         2.7
Expenses incl. Depreciation                1.2    1.8    2.6    2.7         3.2
Operating Income                      0.3    0.1   (1.0)  (0.9)       (0.5)
Operating Ratio, %                        81.8   92.5  160.6  150.0       120.6
Rate of Return, 1/ %                       2.7    1.0   (5.1)  (4.9)       (2.5)
1/   All rate of return figures in this chapter are calculated on average
unrevalued net fixed assets in operation.  Revaluation is discussed
in para. 5.12r
6.04      As suggested by the IDA/ADB appraisal mission, the Guinean Govern-
ment increased the water tariff from Sylis 4 (US$0.20) to Sylis 8 (US$0.40)
per cubic meter, effective April 1, 1978 (para. 6.13). Revenue based on
this tariff covers cash operating cost and fixed assets depreciation. The
loss still anticipated for 1978 stems essentially from the first quarter
where the old tariff was still applied, and the lump sum contract for Govern-
ment consumption which does not yet take the new tariff into account (para.
6.14).
6.05      Unaudited figures for 1977 show that DEG's revenues based on the
old tariff of 4 Sylis per cubic meter of water covered current cash operating
costs but only a minor part of fixed assets depreciation; also, they did not
provide for any interest on long-term borrowing. Total revenue was Sylis
38.0 (US$1.8) million. The net result would have been a loss of Sylis 19.0
(US$0.9) million had all depreciation been taken into account. Similarly,
in 1976, DEG reported positive net results but accounted for only a minor
part of the annual depreciation charge. In both years, the rate of return
on net fixed assets in operation at historical values was negative, and the
operating ratio significantly exceeded 100%.
6.06      Operating costs would have been higher than those reported if
normal maintenance had been performed. At present, lack of spare parts and
qualified staff lead to an abnormally low level of maintenance activities,
and therefore, low costs. Also, the application of the official exchange
rate tends to understate the costs related to imported inputs such as chemi-
cals and spare parts expenses, and depreciation of imported equipment, when
expressed in local currency. (For discussion of shadow exchange rates, see
para. 4.11).



- 39 -
6.07      The following estimated figures are principal financial indicators
for DEG's Conakry operations, i.e. excluding the secondary centers (US$ mil-
lion). Detailed projections are shown in Annex 6.2.
1976    1977   1978
Water Sales                               1.3      1.3    2.0
Sewerage and Other                        0.2      0.2    0.2
Total Revenues                       1.5     1.5    2.2
Expenses incl. Depreciation               1.6      1.7    2.0
Operating Income                    (0.1)   (0.2)   0.2
Operating Ratio, %                      104.5   116.1   92.1
Rate of Return, %                        (0.7)   (2.6)   1.7
6.08      These figures show that in 1978 the Conakry revenues will exceed
related cash operating expenses plus depreciation while prior to the April 1,
1978 tariff increase these operations generated losses. A breakdown of the
1977 income statement between Conakry and the secondary centers (Annex 6-6)
indicates that, for Conakry, cost per cubic meter of water billed was Sylis
5.4 (US$0.27) while the average for the four secondary centers was Sylis 19.1
(US$0.96). The high cost of the secondary centers as compared to Conakry is
caused by the use of sophisticated installations for the treatment of surface
water and by the small size of these networks.
6.09      DEG's assets and liabilities are summarized below (US$ million):
End of:         1974      1975     1976      1977
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets 1/                            10.0      19.6      18.5      19.5
Current Assets                                  0.3       0.6       1.1       1.5
Total                                       10.3      20.2      19.6     21.0
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity (Government Contribution)               10.0      19.2      19.4     20.9
Borrowing 
Current Liabilities                             0.3       1.0       0.2      0.1
Total                                       10.3      20.2     19.6      21.0
1/   At historical values.



- 40 --
6.10      The major part of the Conakry water dlstribution system was bui.l
during the years 1963-65, financed mainly by a KfW loan of DM 31.4 millicn
Additional investments have been made more recently in Conakry and the se^--
ondary centers, also financed by foreign sour_es (for past sector investnents
see para. I.11).  Fixed assets, at the end of 1977, had a historical net Dook
value of Sylis 400 (US$19.5) million.
6.11      The total foreign borrowing recorded by the Central Bank of Guiiea
for the water sector, outstanding at the end of 1977, amounted to about S-1is
580 (US$28.4) million (see Annex 6-7).  Failure to service some debts, th.
additional interest included in reschedul:ing agreements, and substantial
exchange rate changes over the years have cont:ributed to the total sector
debt exceeding sector assets significantly.  The debt is not recorded by ::EG
whose assets are considered to be financecl by Goverr rent equity contributions
(para. 5.16).
6.12      Customer receivables represented. Sylis 21.7 (US$1.1) million at
the end of 1977, corresponding to about 7 months of billing.  An agreement
was reached during negotiations to reduce these receivables to 4 months
of billing (para. 5.08).
Tariffs
6.13      As mentioned above, the water tariff has been increased to 8 SylLs
(US$0.40) per cubic meter effective April 1, 1978, from the former tariff of
4 Sylis (US$0.20) which had been in effect since April 1976. To alleviate the
effect of this tariff increase on the small consumers, the fixed meter renial
and meter/connection maintenance charges have- been cancelled.  Since for m .ny
small consumers these charges represented about half of the amounts invoicl-d
their total bill should not increase significantly. To assist the Governmi-nt
in defining future tariff policies, a tarif-f study has been included in the
proposed project (para. 4.21) to be completed by June 30, 1981.
6.14      The national Administration -- including the ministries, schools,
hospitals, etc. -- has an annual lump sum contract with DEG based on the old
4 Sylis/cubic meter tariff, and effects quarterly payments on it. Agreemer.t
has been obtained that this contract will be based on the new water tariff,
effective January 1, 1979.
6.15      As the number of standpipes will be increased significantly by thl
proposed project, agreement has been reached also that the Goverumient will
ask the municipalities to provide for sufficient funds for the corsumption
from standpipes in their annual budgets, starting with the budgets submitte:.
for 1980.
6.16      The sewerage tariff is Sylis 1 (USS0.05) per cubic meter of water
consumed for the customers connected to the sewerage system which is limite:
to the Conakry I area at present.  Once sewerage operations have become morm
important and separate cost accounts (para. 5.14) have been established thic
tariff has to be analyzed for adequacy. For drainage, no cost recovery
mechanism exists at present but studies are underway (para 4.05).



- 41 -
Financing Plan
6.17      DEG's capital investment requirements during the period 1979-82,
along with the sources from which they would be met, are summarized below.
Further details are given in Annex 6-3.
1979-1982
Millions of       Millions of
Sylis             US $           %
REQUIREMENTS
Proposed Conakry Project             332.5              16.4         61.8
Faranah/Gueckedou Projects           180.0              8.9          33.5
Total Construction              512.5             25.3          95.3
Increase in Working Capital           25.2              1.2           4.7
Total Requirements              537.7             26.5         100.0
SOURCES
Operating Income                      16.5              0.8           3.0
Depreciation                         171.4              8.5          31.9
Internal Cash Generation             187.9              9.3          34.9
Less:  Debt Service                  117.9               5.8         21.9
Net Internal Cash Generation   70.0                3.5          13.0
Borrowing:
Proposed IDA                       159.0              7.9          29.6
Proposed ADB                       122.9              6.0          22.9
Suppliers' Credits
(Faranah/Gueckedou)              140.0              6.9          26.0
Total Borrowing                 421.9             20.8          78.5
Government Contribution               45.8               2.2          8.5
Total Sources                   537.7             26.5         100.0
6.18      The construction requirements during this period comprise the water
supply component of the IDA/ADB financed Conakry Project (US$16.4 million)
and the Faranah/Gueckedou secondary center projects (US$8.9 million; para.
1.15). The components of the IDA financed project for which the MIE is respon-
sible -- mainly the drainage component and the secondary center studies -- are
not included in the above financing plan (see para. 3.08).



- 42 -
6.19      The internal cash generation, net of debt service, is expected. :o
contribute 13.0% of the total requirements. The proposed IDA credit wou:ild
contribute US$7.9 million; the African Development Bank US$6.0 million.
Suppliers' credits amoDunting to US$6.9 million have been obtained for the
Faranah/Gueckedou projects. The requirements not financed by ..nternal cash
generation and borrow:ing will have to be met by a Government contribution
equivalent to US$2.2 million. It was agreed during negotiations that th.e
Government will provide financing to meet the requirements of DEG's inve!st:ment
program to the extent not covered from other sources.
6.20      In addition to the Faranah and Gueckedou projects the Guinean Rcv-
ernment intends to construct new water networks in secondary centers, to lbe
financed by further foreign debt, including suppliers' credits.  During u0go-
tiations assurances were obtained that the Guinean Government will consult
the Association on a financing plan before undertaking capital expenditu:-Es
in the water and sanitation sector, other than for the proposed project,
exceeding US$1 million per year.
Future Financial Performance
6.21      The following figures summarize DEG's earnings forecast for the
period 1979 to 1984, including secondary centers (US$ million):
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Water Sales                               3.6    3.9    5.5    6.0    8.3    8.9
Sewerage and Other                        0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    D.4
Total Revenues                       3.8    4.1    5.8    6.3    8.6    9.3
Expenses incl. Depreciation               3.6    4.2    5.3    6.0    6.7    7.1
Operating Income                    0.2   (0.1)   0.5    0.3    1.9    2.2
Operating Ratio, %                       95.9  103.5   91.2   95.5   77.6   76.6
Rate of Return, %                         0.7   (0.6)   1.7    0.8    5.0    6.0
6.22      The present tariff of 8 Sylis (US$0.40) per cubic meter will coTEr
operating expenses including depreciation. for the years 1979 anc& 1980. The
projections assume a tariff increase to 10 Sylis beginning 1981 and to 12
Sylis beginning 1983, mainly to offset the increase in operating expenses
resulting from inflation. The operating ratio should improve to below 100)%
in 1981 and to about 77% in 1984.
6.23      The Guinean Government has confirmed that during the constructil::In
period of the proposed project the water tariff will not be reduced below
the present level and will be maintained at a level adequate to cover for



- 43 -
the total of DEG's operations, (1) cash operating expenses and depreciation or
(2) debt service, whichever is higher. DEG's fixed assets are to be revalued
as at the end of 1980 (para. 5.12). It would then be possible to establish
appropriate financial rate of return performance standards based on revalued
fixed assets, to be taken into account by the water tariff study financed
under the proposed project (para. 4.21).
6.24      The projected figures below summarize financial forecasts for DEC's
Conakry operations, i.e., excluding the secondary centers, based on the tar-
iff assumptions mentioned above (US$ million):
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Water Sales                              2.8    3.3    4.6    5.0    6.9    7.5
Sewerage and Other                       0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4
Total Revenues                      3.0    3.5    4.9    5.3    7.2    7.9
Expenses incl. Depreciation              2.3    2.8    3.4    3.9    4.3    4.7
Operating Income                    0.7    0.7    1.5    1.4    2.9    3.2
Operating Ratio, %                      75.6   78.6   69.7   74.2   60.3   59.1
Rate of Return, %                        7.4    6.9   10.3    7.6   14.5   1706
These indicators--which, however, do not include any impact of further projects
in Conakry as no such projects are identified at present--show a steady improve-
ment. After completion of the proposed project the Conakry revenues would
significantly exceed related operating expenses including depreciation or
also, cash expenses plus debt service.
6.25      DEG's projected assets and liabilities are summarized below (US$
million):



- 44 -
End of:         1978       1980      1982      19'84
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets 1/                              23.7      38.3      40.4      34.7
Current Assets                                    1.4       1.9       2.9       4.1
Total                                        25.1      40.2      43.3      38.8
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity (Government Contribution)                24.8       25.0      23.9      22.0
Borrowing 2/                                       -       14.8      18.8     1.6.0
Current Liabilities                               0.3       0.4       0.6       0.8
Total                                        25.1      40.2      43.3      118.8
Debt/Equity, %                                       -       59.2      78.3      ;2.9
Debt Service Coverage, times                         -        2.1       1.1       1.7
1/   At historical values.
2/   On pro-forma basis, see para. 5.16.
6.26      Debt/equity ratio and the debt service coverage are expected to s-ay
at sound levels during and after project construction period. Forecasted net
fixed assets, Government contribution, debt and debt/equity ratio peak during
the years 1981/1982 and start to decrease thereafter as no investments follow-
ing completion of the Conakry and Faranah/Gueckedou projects are sufficier.t.y
defined at present to be included in the projections.
Monitoring Indicators
6.27      Annex 6-8 shows the key monitoring indicators that would be used
to measure achievement of the technical and financial targets set for the
proposed project. During negotiations, it was agreed that DEG will calculat;e
these indicators quarterly and submit them to IDA for review.
CHAPTER VII
SUMMARY, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At present only 41% of the population of Conakry is served with
piped water system; the existing distribution facilities are insufficient



- 45 -
to serve this population now connected to the system and the private sources
used by the remainder of the population are often polluted. The proposed
project would aim at fulfilling immediate requirements of the Conakry water
supply and drainage needs, at raising levels of service and providing satis-
factory sanitation to most of Conakry's population. Special emphasis would
be given to improved access of potable water to all income groups of the
Conakry population.   Project components selected represent the least cost
solution to meeting project objectives. DEG's financial and technical per-
formance will be strengthened during the project implementation period so
that it may better fulfill its role as the national agency responsible for
water supply and sanitation.
Project Risks
7.02      There are no significant technical risks associated with the
physical components of the project given the well defined nature of the works.
Although the Grandes Chutes dam is leaking, it is a stable gravity-type
structure, and Bank and Government consultants consider there is very little
danger of failure before the rehabilitation or the construction of a new dam
is completed by 1981 at the latest. The realization of the benefits of the
project will depend greatly on the ability of DEG to achieve the institutional
and manpower improvement objectives. These objectives are reasonable and the
probability of achieving them is improved through the technical assistance and
training components. The availability of foreign exchange essential for DEG's
day-to-day operation would be assured through the establishment of a special
account for the purchase by DEG of spare parts and chemicals.   Additional
assurance of successful project implementation would be achieved by obtaining
agreement from the Government and DEG on the conditions set forth in paras.
7.03-7.04.
Agreements Reached and Recommendation
7.03      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would:
(i) adopt measures to improve sanitation and prevent
pollution in the Conakry area by:
(a)  enacting appropriate legislation to protect
the ground water sources used for the public
water supply (para. 3.21);
(b)  asking DPH to close private wells in areas where
access to piped water would have been provided
by the project (para. 3.22);
(c)  ensuring appropriate maintenance of the sanitary
blocks (para. 3.23);
(d)  providing sufficient operating funds for RAC's
drainage operations. RAC would adequately staff



- 46 -
its drainage division, submit annual budgets for
review by IDA, and set up accounts for drainage
operations (para. 5.28);
(ii) adopt measures for appropriate implementation of the project
by:
(a) including the Government contribution to the
proposed project in its annual budgets and making
it available to the project entity in quarterly
advances to an account with the "Credit National"
Bank (para. 3.09);
(b) hiring of three expatriate assistants for the
Project Unit (para. 3.11);
(c) keeping appropriate accounts for all expenditures
related to the proposed project (para. 5.15);
(d) providing financing to meet the requirements
of DEG's investment program to the extent not
covered from other sources (para. 6.19);
(iii)  take measures to improve DEG's operation by:
(a) supporting DEG's actions specified under the plan
of improvement attached in Annex 7-1;
(b) enacting revised by-laws of DEG by June 30, 1979
following their review by IDA (para. 5.03);
(c)  raising the limit for purchases without "a priori"
approvals beyond the present 10,000 Sylis level,
when required by DEG (para. 5.05);
(d) providing the foreign exchange required for DEG's
operations and maintenance; and requesting BGCE
to open letter of credits for the purchase of
spare parts and stocks according to DEG's needs
(para. 5.06);
(e) hiring of six expatriate advisors to assist DEG
in setting up adequate operations and maintenance
proceclures (para. 5.22).
(iv) improve the financial position of DEG and the sector by:
(a) conducting a study of water tariffs including
house connection charges by June 30, 1981 and
submitting it for IDA's review (para. 4.21);



- 47 -
(b) having DEG establish separate accounts for
sewerage operations starting with fiscal year
1980 (para. 5.16);
(c) having DEG maintain proforma accounts for foreign
borrowing contracted after 1977 (para. 5.16);
(d) submitting DEG's audited financial statements to
IDA within 6 months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 5.18);
(e) submitting for IDA's review (1) DEG's annual
operating and investment budgets no later than
one month before the beginning of the fiscal
year starting with the 1980 budgets (para. 5.19);
and (2) quarterly reports on its operations, in-
cluding technical and financial monitoring indi-
cators (para. 6.27);
(f) agreeing to renegotiate the lump-sum contract
covering the Administration's consumption (para.
6.14);
(g) assuring that the various "Regions Administratives"
will provide for sufficient funds to pay for stand-
pipe consumption (para. 6.15);
(h) consulting IDA on a financing plan before under-
taking capital expenditures in the water and sani-
tation sector, exceeding US$1 million per year
(para. 6.20);
(i) maintaining the water tariff at least at the
present level until tariff studies are completed
and appropriate rate of return targets based on
revalued fixed assets in operation can be estab-
lished (para. 6.23);
(v) submit the findings and recommendations of the market
study on diversification of alumina products to the
shareholders of Friguia for purposes of a prefeasi-
bility study (para. 1.18);
(vi) submit the results of the feasibility studies on the
Grandes Chutes dam for IDA's review by June 30, 1979,
and secure the financing for the dam's rehabilitation
or reconstruction (para. 2.04).
7.04      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit are that:
(i) MIE sign a contract with a foreign water supply entity
for the secondment of 6 expatriates (para. 5.22);



- 48 -
(ii)  MIE sign a contract with consultants for hiring three
technical assistants for the Project Unit (para. 3.11);
(iii)  Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur open a special
foreign exchange account (para. 5.06);
7.05      Provided the foregoing conditions are met, the proposed project:
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$12.5 million to the Government of Guinea.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1-1
GUINEA
FIRST WATER SUPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data available
in the Project File
A.   Sector Reports and Studies by Others
A.1 Preliminary Identification Mission Report for an Immediate Housing
Project in Conakry - UNCDF, December 1977.
B.   Project Related Documents and Studies by Others
B.1 Conakry Water Supply Project, Preliminary Technical and Feasibility
Study, 10 Volumes, Compagnia Tecnica di Progettazione (COMTEC), Rome,
October 1977.
B.2 Appraisal Reports of African Development Bank.
B.3 Annual Reports of DEG.
C.   Documentation Prepared by Bank Staff
C.1 Chronological Record of Project Missions.
C.2 Prices and Exchange Rates in Guinea, Draft Memroandum Prepared by
Country Economist, July 1978.
C.3 Analysis of Average Incremental Costs and Rate of Return.



PROJECT AREA POPULATION FORECAST
ESTIMATE                                                         FORECAST
DISTRICT                 1975                   1977                       1980                       1985                        1990
Inhabitants         Inhabitants   AGR %   Inhabitants    AGR%   Inhabitants    AGR%   Inhabitants   AGR%
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" .   ,   .r.
1                   49,540              52,310       2.8           56,700         2.8         62 3600        2.0         65,800        1.0
2                   20,426              21,570       2.8           23,000         2.5         25,400         2.0         26,700        1.0
3                   49,600              52,475       2.8           56,800         2.8         62,700         2.0         65,900        1.0
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ._- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _- - - - - - -- -   _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ._- - - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ -_ _
Conakry 1                119,566             126,355        2.8         136,500         2.7        150,700          2.0        158,400        1.0
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _- - - - -   _ _ _- _- - - - - _ - - - - - _- - _- _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --    - _ _ - _ - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ _
5                   89,615              94,635       2.8         102,800          2.8        113,500         2.0        119,300        1.0
6                 117,360             135,000        7.2         168,300          7.5       220,000          5.5        234,650        1.1
7                   95,450            111,200        8.0         137,000          7.5       170,700          5.5        202,600        2.4
8                  20,364               24,640    10.0             34,300       11.0          52,700         9.0         78,500        70 
9                   13,045              16,300    12.0             21,900       11.0          35,250        10.0         50,700        7.0        0
-------------------_----------           _-_--------------------------------------__----_____--_____--_____-_________________-
Conakry II               335,834             381,775        6.4         464,300         6.8        600,450          4.0        685,750        2.8
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Conakry III               20,500              34,370        2.0          49,400        12.5         70,750          7.0        102,850       6.5
TOTAL AREA               475,900             542,500        6.7         650,200         6.4        821,900          4.8        947,000        3.0
CONCERNED
Total Guinea
(million)                  4.2                 4.4         2.8            4.8           2.8          5.5           2.8           6.4         2.8
___________             ------------------
Conakry % of Guinel           11             1    12             |14                                   15                          15
L_= ----===============_======G=_==___==-=-===-=__==_=C-=--'_=_-==__ ==_======,=_=_==__ __-------------------
AGR 7 Annual Growth Rate



-  51  -                                         ANNEX 2-2
GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY
Water Forecast 1978-1990
Actual    --------_       ---------------------_-_----orecast----------------- --------------------
1977      1978        1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984      1985        1990
1.  POPULATION                                       542,500    574,000   610,700   650,200   688' 650   725,500   760,320   792,650   821,900   947,000
-    2.  DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION
21 Private connections
No. of registered connections                4,856       5,106     5,606      6,406      7,606     9,006    10,506    12,106    13,806    24,00C
Per capita consumption (I/d)                    77          78        79         80        81         82        82         83         84        91
People per connection                           24          24        24         22        21         20         19        18         17        14
Sub-Total Consumption (m Id)                   8,974      9,558    10,408    11,531    13,108    14,770    16,368    18,086    19,715    30,576
22    No. of unregistered connections              1,070       1,070       900        600       300          0          0         0          0          0
No. of officialized connections                  0           0       170        470       770      1,070      1,070     1,070      1,070     1,070
Per capita consumption (I/d)                   150         150       150        150       150        150       150        150        150       t50
People per  connection                          10          10        10         10        10         10         10        10         10        10
Sub-Total Consumption (m3/d)                   1,605       1,605     1,605      1,605     1,605      1,605     1,605      1,605      1,605     1,605
23 Standpipe Consumption
No. of standpipes                              102        102        142        182       222        262       302        342        382       500
Per capita consumption (1/d)                    15         15         15         15        16         16         17        17         18        20
People per standpipe                         1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000        950        950       900        900        850        50q
Sub-Total Consumption (m /d)                   1,530       1,530     2,130      2,730     3,374      3,982     4,620      5,233      5,845     7,500
Total Domestic Consumption (21+22+23)             12,109      12,693    14,143    15,866    18,087    20,357    22,594    24,924    27,165    39.681
24 Population served (.)
By private connections                          23          23        23         24        25         26        28         29         30        37
By standpipes                                   18         18         23         28        31         34        36         39         40        40
Totai                                           41          41        46         52        56         60        64         68         70        77
3. ADMINISTRATIVE CONSUMPTION
Volume (m 3/d)                                 2,915       3,126     3,453      3,706     4,139      4,441     4,767      5,115      5,492     7, 31
4. INDUSTRIAL CONSUMPTION
Volume "m Id)                                  2,699       2,850     3,009      3,177     3,356      3,545     4,883      5,141     5,415      7,035
5.  TOTAL WATER CONSUMED (m /d)  (2+3+4)              17,723      18,669    20,605    22,749    25,582    28,343    32,244    35.180    38.072    54,55l
Technical efficiency (%)                         .65         .65       .66        .69       .71        .74        .75       .76       .77        .78
Commercial efficiency (%)                        .67         .68       .69        .70        .71       .73       .75        .76        .76       ..8
6. WATER PRODUCED
Per day (n 3)   3                             27,266     28,722    31,219    32,969    36,031    38,302    42,992    46,289    49,444    69,937
Per year (000 m )                              9,952     10,484    11,395    12,034    13,152    13,980    15,692    16,896    18,047    25,327
7. WATER BILLED
Per day (m 3)   3                             18,268     19,531    21,541    23,079    25,582    27,960    32,244    35,180    37,577    54,551
Per year (000 mn )                             6,668      7,129      7,863     8,424      9,338    10,206    11,769    12,841    13,716    19,911
March 31, 1978



- 52 -
GUINEA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT                                  ANNE) 2-3
Conakry Demand Forecast
90000                  I               -                 I                 i__                             =     _ _
80000                                  - _                    _ ..                                            _
70000                                  -  _               _                                                    _ .
PRODUCTION CAPACITY
60000                       -.                          _i_, .                                                _ _
60000                  ~~~~~~PROJECT              ....-
40000                                  rlo                     __ _ _ _             ___AW         
30000                           r             _  _ __    G_                    _               _  _  _  __  __              _
30000                                         2o--                                                          " _
C                                               -~~~~~~~~~I
.W                                                           G
~~~~~~~ 10000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
w   900o0o  __ _ __  _  _   ._    _ _ _ _             , , E   __  __  __  __
7 5000             ADM____TRATIVE    |                                             ____                                _
20000
3o                                          _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.. 
-   6000   -      _~S..*---9--j                                                                                   .___         _
o              IN~~~DUiNSTRIATL       I                         
2                   CONSUMPTI~ONSMPT ON   F 
C~~ ~    ~ _____ANNUAL_____ _.__                                                                                        _
/    \   t       |                  GROWTH                  /        15%~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~ Ot
1 3000                     I I_ -
8000{.j~__
7000                                                          I.._
6000                                                                                                                 ._-
500                    PPLTiN_
U                  A~~IDU!NSTRIATIV
z                   CONSUMCONSUMPTIO
4000                                                     _ (THOUSANOSi |__
STANDTRIAL
CONSUMPTION
1000                                                                                                         20%__ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
ioo'!    I                                   I       I I               !       F            I             I        I,,
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984         1985    1986     1987    1988    1989    1!390
YEUAR
World Bank -19105



- 53 -
W.Wlr S.ml, -4  P.0Iisotgt Fr.103   A7                                             J 31
h.l4' C-7t *eti ft.
C.tp. LC. 006 2711.              00.1.       0 Mc2.11.       P-,0.3t.s. of  to6.1t *Ptia1p.tlon (7n 000 D212.-.)
Lje.0.1   7..La.       T ..tI    l.l    Foiw.    T.l    F-lS.                 T,.-1      IDA         DB      CG.
A. A7TER SUPPLY
Al. 0q-.1.0,,
fIp    C 4..C -                                1275      5 267.       5,442         9       263        272        94                              763          9
0.0.0.2.,. booZ^r t3.on                          73       2.355        2.42t         4       llt        122        97                              113           4
P_p9ns .9.199.0  1-hl. f1.1d                    103       5,915        65.99         9       296        05         3                              296          96
1.h.b12. 4.44. of t..-10   o,p1.0t              512       5,401        5.992        54       276        300        01                              274         26
H'd`0ul.l  q.Ip_nt Foo  -.i.       .             95       3,072        3,167         5       253        158        97                              153           5
Plp.  uOply feo  trunR  n-0                     221       7,673        7.606        11       174       325         97                              374         27
ip. .op$7 eto  _..  Ine   6 .1.sj               47p 67   15           23,922       23        772   796             9           7         772                   2.
0.t.-. o.4d 10.0t.10   qutp_e                   530      17 160       17,680        727      658        45S        97                    056                    27
0k,6.:6   t1.01  6 .l0 ..                       323      1O 501       10 824        16       525        561        97                         _    525          16
Sp.- Pft'. .nd ch06 -.1                            0      12,000       12,200         0      600        600       1_0                   600
... C..t. Al                             2301      84,640       67,257        131    6.233      6,350        97         20       2,230      2,003        132
Ph63.11.  C0,61n0.ncl.                     378      5866          6,246        19      293        312                              135        150         10
PrO,. Oont,no                              000     20,2S1        16,872        70      914        94.                              707        122         30
T1,.1 Co-1. Al                           3.558    lOS0817       112.375       180    5.440      5,620        97                  2,758      2,682        10
A2. Civil Wo-.
R1.hbil. of 010.Iln.4 6W124i1S.               2,323       7,780       10.103       116       309        305        77                              389        116
Con. L-,i..1 of  --.r.L- 461bld..             8,537      06,273       23120        .27        202     1255         66                    390       438         42 7
D27L.$11   of bt.6hi1..                       1 030      16,273       17,312        52      802         046        94                              34          522
L.71,6 y 0n 3f 64 r.11.                       *4453      20,036       16.409       223       602        825        73                              602        223
I,71,1f I0          r l.                     7,143      17284        24.631       356       075     3.231         71                   875                   756
0.pl2.o. t of sAm., l1elltIon
03 .i,L.c.o  6f tn0006170n                   6,631       5,649       12,280       332       202        614        46                   232                   332
In.6.t 1.oi,, of L.131-0  Li.                   005         385          500         6        10         05        77                               20          6
pbo  o. C,. 62                          30,241     76,10       206,403     1,532    3,300       5,322        72         24       1,347      2,262      1,52
Phy.f601 Con,1t6. l.                    3,492      11.429       14,921        174      572        746                              215        357        L74
Py..       .                             0,026     22.535       31. 603       462    2  ,28     25,0                               429        699        462
,0L3l C,.. A2                         43.002      112248       1531 40    2,246    7,309       7,637        61                  2,191     3,318       2,148
0.  24       T D7*7107  20175
01. SAITTONl,ow
V.h.i61 .  tool0. fo6 dt.in.  o0 DPR.           ioo° 32 9,00           4 4020        6       195        201        97                   195                      6
So9p27 of -h.611.. 6  h2,1.1L. 40 270           200       2,000        1.600         5        75         60        95                     75 
B2. CIYII 00k.
0.60611. ,3 .01.11,6 1,21.11,,.    2~,006        210       0,010        90        12        102        11                     11                    9
C,o bLI.Oroof10 0-6~  30.1,.                  0 9 400    23,500       32,050       470    1,10        10,29        69                 1,159                   970
0.01t0y bl1o,k                                  160         640          B00         8        32         40        80                     32                    0
37013.01,, ,...or. .6,0.0,2 .. h.L. s.3         440       1.760        2.200        22        So        110       so                     00                    22
B... Cool. 6                            12,020      31,190       4,3210       601    1,560      2,261        17 20               2,560                   601
Ph,.lool Co-L-01.-1..                   12,017       6,570        6,400        96      279        325                              Z29                    96
70±1. -Co1~.1                           ,31         0. 9419      23,000.      179      471        03                               471                   220
To1.1 Cp .1  B                          17,510      45,282       62;700       86    2,260 341356             57                  2,260                   070
of  i.61h taoe                           7,460                    7,460       373                 373                                                    373
C.  121I010  04K0S
61C 6,0.A  000.o1fl       . ,slen.lon           640       5,600        6,240        32       280        312       89                    280                     72
T-3.1,1, 6.1iL20S                                60         240          300         3        12         35        00                    12                      3
R.-Lo of prt.oJot -it hWilddng                  720                      720        36                   36                                                     36
0... C00t0   C                           1,420       5.840       17260         71      292        363        00          2         292 01
PhY.L.Io  Co,,11g60,1.                     220       2,120        1,340        11        56        67                               56                    22
OrLeo C011±06.011..                        300       1.20         1,400        19        51        70                               51                    20
T1t.1 Co-- -C                            2,020       7,900       10.000       101      399        500        s0                    399                   101
D.  T7AINL60   U160I0EW2
Log1  -.pr 30    -40ff                        14000                      400        20                   20         0                                           20
1.0.1 9,0.01   36 .40t f                      1,00                     2.000        50                   s0         0                                           0
11lol r h1p., 60160. Ipprnt.                              5,000        3,000                 200        250       200                   250
00t10101 for  -1.iDD 9100                                                900                  45         45       100                     45
B. C00t. 0                               1,400 54900              i00 0        70       295       365        81          2         295                    70
p327.30.1 00,1100,-1..                                 760          760                  30        30                               30
P0 c1.  C0fl116601100                      600       1,780        2,3t0        30        89       11g                               3d                    20
0t-,  C00t.  D                           2,,000      8,440       10,440       100       422        522       81                    422                   200
6.  TECHNICAL .511STA0  E
DP ...L... Esrt.0.                                       20,000       20, z00              1,000      1.000       100                 0,000
-oi., T    071-.,                                         4,000        4,000                 200        200       1oo                    200
00.00.00.0 0,9036                         000          000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  60        60      100                     60
010.0,0.1 *010                                            7,200L        1,200                 60         60       100                     60
4010,1i60        160,100 A..t-.4 ..                       6,000        6,000                 300        300       100                    300
0... Do0.  E                                 0      02,000       32,000         0    1,600      1,600       100          7       1,600
1ti1. Co.l1oKe.o,..                                  5,600        5,600                 700        080                             2O0
T,.-1 Coot. E                                       37,600       37,600               1.080      2.100      100                  1,080
F.  SUPERVISIC9 0ND S7UDIES 7EE
Go--     q. L-.t. 6 plo l                                2,200         1,200                 60         Go       100                     60
f-6100l   .. 301 h...                              1,660       3I000                    0         so      100                     SO
0.40614 i 4.0.i.'- 0,0 0040..71,800                                     2.600                 96 10               100                     90
P...ibility fIt  ....    rt1 -t                          20,000        20,600              1,000 I      000       300                  I 000
00,61... ter 0.0  . 1.   e" iog                          220,00       200                  2 000      1,* OdO     100                  2,000
P7C.p0 p. A1.4 00 di        .     .200                                 1,200                  60 0               100                     S0
A-1ip.    - 1-1  -trt. iA' low 1,000                                    1,000                l0          300       00                    10
C. - 1                                              44,200       48,200         0    2,611 2,610            50          10       2,
Ph96-7rc  Cm010l.0.0..                               3,600        3,600                 ISO       1tO                              2eO
t.1. 0l01 7t                                        51,000       33,0O0               2,390      2.360       o17                 1.500
TOTAL UA3t0 ets                                   47,670    203,962       331,652    2,345   14,1"       16,54                     7       97 9,95   6,265       2,335
Pb.6.01                                      6,007      27,350       33,57        30      1 35  1,   1 e.  t                            653       53          300
851..                                        14,420      50,635       73,030        720    2,933      3.653                 2            2.71    1,220         720
tOtAL PR021 CtOCTS                                64,097    369,427       43002       3O 3,   3t5 2 l,b0    21,505     100       0O       12.500    6,0a         3,403
7.7,3                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,90 7".            33737
00Q   7 tOtAL 41  a00r TA7U                       60,657    360,427       40,564    3,032   16,300    21,532                              12,300    6,O00        3,C02
J6.o  7. 197.
3-..J.d  17 7t



GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Implemenitation Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year         1978                  1979                         1980                         1981                         1982                   1983
Calendar Year      i           1978           D J           1979           D J           1980           D J           1981           D J           1982            D
Wdter Supply                                                  / /,                                                          RS// //  7///              ,   //
Office and Houses              D// //,T,                          //f                                                   / //
119111 7W4/  //
Contract                       / ////                                                    /
Rehabilitation oif                  0.i        T             KSIC                         /7/'77                                                     ' 
Procd. Facilities             :     il,  /                             S/ W              7 /7 / r', /77/ //  /7
Drilling and                                                                  /                                           //                   |        $   "
Equipt. of          |                                              'T0    /         _          //                         //                           t///
horeholes          I      I        7,                                                    /                  '",l                              I     /
Supply and Laying                 D/7/              T        /   //S              C       / ///                        '  ///                        / Xi/
of Trunk Mains            |                                 /  //                        /  ///                       '   'i   l              I         i    //
| Con nect. Stand .   |   |    / A ///                      /  ///                 T|    / ///  .' 7/7/                                 /     |       / 7/
S      Erection of              'T ///."                     /  -///             C           |          Z    I                                          | ///. 
t Reservoirs                      TTTT                      /  /,,              C           7I/                          ////                      /  7/'
Techinical Asst.                    A/           |     ,7            ,,I:'.....                                          )1:'-I_rl[/] 
|Studies for                                                                                           T  2/8     r  //,      7/ /17i777                lza;
eof  Scond Miat rs                                                                                                                                  7/-/
|SRehab. and Toolst     . |  |  '     /   /T""" T/ S'/" |                                                  /                                            '2,',
C onnol Poect. Stnd         |       y///|                     /' /7/1                      / /7//           | i     _ z////|                          /  /7/
Vrecteione             |                        T            /  "                 C s  | ,
Technical ~~             ~ Asst,   .                                                       !TT2  Ti      ,,,                              7/'' 
Studiesfo Re,'                                               ,    /,/                                 2/
Connend. Cengeas                       =  Implemen
SnTa=TiondradEautoRS=Riyesn
Rehab. -aSupplynand Const ructT                                      T
Boretiole ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~oi Protect.1
SPpleit ygoiolene/   T'                                      SS,-  2/7                                                  '   7/7
7/S    mm  *7/                 /  7/                        .'  7/7/                      /  /7/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
PVC  upplant nd/or''/on'truc                                                                                              //io/
/  /7/         -  /7/7                            /7.~~Wo'idBak    141



GUINEA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1977 DEG ORGANIZATION CHART
Technical Services                         Commercial Services          Accounting |er
Manager                                    14anager                  "4nqgererlMng
U'
General                        TreatmentSees               Csoes Blig              olctn
Services       Network           Plant                                            Cleto
General       Inventory    Cky, Dist.,     S, Centers
fTe~Tehia  Srie hanicsla Accounti                                                       Accounting  Accounnne
Maintenance |   4 Maintenance                             Accoutiutinguting                              Accounting
Transport        New Works        New Works
Carpentry|
Conakr    |
Dikrict         inia           MmuKankan                     Nzerekore



GUINEA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED DEC ORGANIZATION   CHART
General
Manager
Dleputy
General Manager
Design                                  I                                 Comeria
StuDiesign    |                        Operations                         C e a             Accounting         Personnel
Studies   i                           | ManaBer  |                        L Manager  Servces   Manager          Manager
'(now withl MIE)1                                                               Mange
Customers         General Acctg.
Sewer         Cky. Operat.        Spe.Ceter          Technical               Billing            IvnoyAcg
Dept.            Dept.              Operat.            Services                                  Inventory Acctg.
Conakry Acctg.
Sec. Centers Acctg.
Kindia              Meters Sect.
Distribution      Production                                                                      - Collection and
Division         Division             Kankan             - Mechanics Sect.                         Receivables
Mamou             - Carpentry Sect.
- Construction      Yessoulou          Nzerekore         -1Prefab Sect.
and Repair        Plant
Sect.          _                                      - Vehicles Sect.
LKaloum
- Maintenance,       Borehole
Field
Monitoring &
Waste Control



GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT'
i. E.G.
INCOME STATEMENTS
(Millions of Sylis)
---------------Actual----------------           -----------------------Forecaot-------------------------------
1974       1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983         1981
15 months
Revenues
Water Sales                     28.5        35.1        32.2        33.2         49.5        73.4        78.5       112.8       123.0       168.9      183.0
Other                            2.8         3.4         0.8         4.8          4.9         4.5         5.0         5,9         6.4         6.8         7.3
Total Revenues                31.3        38.5        33.0        38.0         54.4        77.9        83.5       118.7       129.4       175.7       190.3
Expenses
Salaries                         7.7        10.1         9.1        11.6         13.2        14.4        16.5        18.8        20.5        22.1        23.8
Chemicals                  )                             4.5         3.1          5.3         6.1         7.0         8.7        10.0        12.0        13.7
Supplies, Services         )       9         3.2         6.0         8.5         10.4        13.8        16.9        24.5        26.7        31.2        35.2
Transport                        1.4         3.8         7.1         2.9          3.3         3.7         4.1         4.6         5.2         5.8         6.5
Other                            1.3         2.3         1.8         2.2          2.4         4.3         4.7         5.3         5.8         7.7         8.4
Sub-Total                     16.3        19.4        28.5       28.3          34.6       42.3         49.2        61.9        68.2        78.8        87.6
Depreciation                     9.3        16.2        24.5        28.7         31.0        32.4        37,2        46,4        55,4        57.6        58,1
Total Expenses                25.6        35.6        53.0        57.0         65.6        74.7        86,4       108.3       123,6       136.4       145,7    1
Operating Income                   5.7         2.9      ( 20.0)    ( 19.0)       ( 11.2)        3.2        (2.9)       10.4         5.8        39.3        44.6
Interest                          -           -           -           -            -          3.6        16.3        29.0        30.8        28.9        26.7
Income Before Taxes                5.7         2.9      (20.0)    ( 19.0)        ( 11.2)      (0. 4)    ( 19.2)    ( 18,6)    ( 25,)           1,4         17.9
Taxes                            1.2         1.0          -           -            -           _          _            _                                   5.9
Net Income                         4.5         1.9      ( 20.0)    ( 19.0)       ( 11.2)      ( 0.4)     ( 192)    (             ( 786  ( 2D)               12.0
Water Tariff,Sylis/m3              3.2         3.2         4.0         4.0        4.018.0       8.0         8.0        10.0        10.0         12.0        12.0
Rate of Return 'L                  2.7         1.0      (  5.1)    (  4.9)       (  2.5)        0.7        (0.6)        1.7          0.8         5,0         6,0
Operating Ratio I.                81.8        92.5       160.6       150.0        120.6        95.9       103.5        91.2        95.5        77.6         76.6
z



GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
D.E.G. - CONAKRY OPERATIONS
INCOME STATEMENTS
(Mlllions of Sylis)
--Estimate----           -------------------------------Forecast----------------------
1976       1977          1978       1979       1980       1981      1982      1983       1984
Revenues
Water Sales                         26.4       26.2          40.9       57.9       67.4       93.4      102.1    141.2    154.1
Other                               4.5         4.8           4.9        4.5        5.0        5.9        6.4       6.8       7.3
Total Revenues                  30.9       31.0           45.8       62.4       72.4       99.3      108.5    148.0    161.4
Expenses
Salaries                            7.6        9.3           10.6       11.5       13.2       15.0       16.4      17.6      19.0
Chemicals                           3.0        2.6            4.4        5.1        5.9        7,3        8,4      10.1      11.5
Supplies, Services                  1.5        1.9            3.7        5.5        7,3        9.1       10,9      12.7      14,6
Transport                           2.3        1.9            2.2        2.4        2,7        3,0        3,4       3,8       4,3          0o
Other                                1.8        1.6           1.7        3.1        3.4        3.9        4.2       5.6       6.1
Sub-Total                       16.2       17.3          22.6       27.6        32.5       38.3       43.3      49.8      55.5
Depreciation                       16.1       18.7           19.6       19.6       24,4       30.9       37.2      39.4      39.9
Total Expenses                  32.3       36.0          42.2        47.2       56.9       69.2       80,5      89.2      95.4
Operating Inicome                     (1.4)      (5.0)          3.6       15.2       15.5       30.1       28,0      58.8       66.0
Interest                             _          _             -          3,6       10.7       17.8       20.7      19.9      18.9
Income Before Taxes                   (1.4)      (5.0)          3.6       11,6        4.8       12.3        7,3      38.9      47.1
Taxes                                                           _              -         ---              -         3.4       5.9
Net Income                            (1.4)       M .2)         3.6       11.6        4.8       12.3        7.3      35.5      41.2
Water Tariff, Sylis/m3                 4.0        4.0         4.0/8.0      8.0        8.0       10.0       10.0       12.0      12.0
Rate of Return '                      (0.7)      (2.6)          1.7        7.4        6.9       10.3         7.6      14.5      17.6
Operating Ratio %                   104.5      116.1           92.1       75.6       78.6       69.7       74.2      60.3       59.1



GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DEG
FUNDS FLOW STA''EMENTS
------------Actual -                       -------------------------------_Forecast-------___--_-___-___________-_
1974        1975       1976        1977        1978         1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
Internal Sources
Income before Depreciation and
Interest, net of taxes          13.8        18.1         4.5         9.7        19.8        35.6        34.3          56.8      51.2         93,5        9618
Operational Requirements:
Working Capital                  (34.6)    (  7.2)        28.1         8.2      (  6.2)       13.0      (  4.9)        12.5         3.8        15.3         4.1
Debt Service:
IDA                              -                                                           1.9         5.7         9.6        11.5         11.5        18.4
ADB                                                                                           1.7         5.0         8.2        19.4        18.7        17.8
Other (Faranah/Gueckedou)                                            _-                                  5.6        25.2        24.1         23.0        21.8
Total Debt Service           - _         _           _           _                       3.6        16.3        43.0        55.0        53.2         58.0
Total Operational
Requirements             (34.6)    (              22)  28.1    8.2     (  6.2)        16.6        11.4        55.5        58.8        68.5        62.1
Net Available from Operations        48.4        25.3     ( 23.6)         1.5       26.0        19.0         22.9         1.3         2.4        25.0)
Construction Requirements
Kindia, Kankan, ADB  I             1.4       212.6         1.4        50.8       115.7           -           -           -           -           _
Proposed IDA/ADB                                -                       -           -          83.6      104,7        123.2       21.0           - 
Other (Faranah/Cueckedou)          -                                                                      180.0          -
Total Coi truction         1.4       212.6         1.4                   115.7      8* .         284.7                    21.0           -          _
Balance to Finance                  (47.0)      187.3       25.0        49.3        89.7         641.6      261.8       121.9       IL8        ( 25.ln)    ( A4I)
Financed By
Proposed IDA                                    -           -            -           -         31.8        47,7        63.6       15,9           _            _
Proposed ADB                                    -           -                        -        41.7        41.8         39.4          -           _            _
Other Borrowings                                 -          -                                    -        140.0          -           -            -
Government Equity Contribution (48.7)         186.8       24.3        in          89.8      (  S.j)        32.5        19.1        2.9%        24,8)    ( 34,5)
Total Financing            (48.7       186.8        24.3        50.5       89.8        6'4'.8      262.0       122.1        1.8        ( 24,8)     ( 34,5)
Surplus (Deficit) of Funds          ( 1.7)    (  0.5)    (  0.7)          1.2        0.1         0.2          0,2         0.2         0.2         0.2          0,2
Cash Beginning of Year                3.2         1.5         1.0         0.3        1.5          1.6         1.8        2.0          2.2         942.
Cash End of Year                      1.5         1.0         0.3         1.5        1.6         1.8          2.0        _2,2         2.4        .2.           2.
Debt Service Ratio  (times)                        -             _                                9.9         2.1         1.3         1.1          1.8         1,7
Net Available from Operations/
Construction Requirements, 7.        -         11.9          -          3.0       22.5         22.7         8.0         1.1        1 1.4          -           -
1'2
a'



GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DEG
BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions of Sylis)
________----  Actual----------------           -------------------------------Forecast-------------------------------
1974       1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
ASSETS
Plant in Operation               268.0       480.6       402.0       532.8       649.6       649.6       733.2      1017.9      1141.1      1162.1    1162.1
Less:  Depreciation               63.2        79.4       103.9       132.6       164.7       197.1       234.3       280.7       336.1       393.7      451.8
Net                       204.8       401.2       378.1       400.2      484.9       452.5       498.9        737.2       805.0       768.4      710.3
Plant Under Construction            -           -1 83;6                                                               23.2        21.0          _          _
Total Plant               204.8       401.2       378.1       400.2      484.9       536,1       783,6       860.4        826,0       768.4      710.3
Inventories                          0.9         5.2         3.2         6.7         7.0         7.4         8.0        11.1         12.2        14.4       16.3
Accounts Receivable                   3.0         5.5        19.6       21.8        19.5        33.7        29.4         41.4        45.2        60.6       65.5
Cash & Banks                          1.5         1.0         0.3         1.5         1.6         1.8         2,Q         2,2         2.4         2,6        2.3
Total Current Assets        5.4        11.7        23.1        30.0        2S,1        42.9       39,4         54.7        59.8        77.6       84.6
Total Assets              210.2      412.9       401.2        430.2      513,0       579.        823.0        915.1       885.8       846.0      794.9
-a.
0
EQUITY 6 LIABILITIES
Government Equity
Contribution                 204.5       393.2       397.5       429.0       507.6       498,5       511,8       512,3       490.2       412,4      449.9
Long Term Debt
IDA                             -           -           -           -           -         31,8        79.5       143.1       159.0       159,0      151.9
ADB                             -           -           -           -           -         41.7        83.5       122.9       112.7       102.4       92.2
Other                           -           -           -           -           -           -        140.0       126.0       112.0        98.0       84.0
Total Long Term Debt         -           -           -           -           -         73.5       3D3,0       32,0        383,7       359,4      328,1
Miscellaneous Payables             5.7        19.7         3.7         1.2         5.4          7.0         8.2        10.8        11.9        14.2       16.9
Total Equity &
Liabilities            210.2       412.9       401.2       430.2       513.0       579.0                               885.8        846.0 i
Long Term Debt/Equity, %              -           -           -           -           -         14,7        59.2         76.5       78.3         76,1       72.9
Current Ratio, times                 0.9         0.6         6.2         25.0         5.2         6.1         4.8         5.1         5,0         5,5         5.0
x
4-



- 61 -
ANNEX 6-5
Page 1
GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A.   Income Statements (DEG Total Operations, Annex 6-1, and Conakry
Operations, Annex 6-2)
Revenues:
Water:          Quantities billed are those indicated in Annex 2-2,
Water Forecast, Item No. 7. Revised tariff of
8 Sylis/cubic meter applied since 2nd quarter 1978,
except contract with Administration, still based
on old tariff of 4 Sylis. Starting 1979, new tar-
iff of 8 Sylis is applied to total quantity. Tar-
iff increase to 10 Sylis assumed beginning 1981,
and to 12 Sylis beginning 1983.
Other:          Includes essentially sewerage, and billing for new
connections.
Expenses:
Salaries:      Represents salaries and all other staff related
charges. Increases are projected in proportion
to total staff numbers, taking into account a 7%
annual increase of cost per man.
Chemicals:      Increasing in proportion with water quantities
produced, plus 7% p.a. inflation.
Supplies and   Maintenance to reach level recommended by engi-
Services:       neering consultants by 1980, i.e. between 1 and
5% p.a., according to category, of acquisition
cost of fixed assets.  Power and gas oil consump-
tion forecasted for each center based on existing
and planned installations, plus 7% p.a. inflation.
Transport,      Quantity increase 5% p.a., plus inflation 7% p.a.
Other:
Depreciation:  For existing fixed assets:  constant, based on 1977
amounts adjusted for depreciation omitted in DEG's
financial statements. For additions: average of
4% annual depreciation, straight line. Half the
annual amount for the year an item is put into
operation.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6-5
Page 2
Interest:       On pro-forma basis for debt incurred after 19;77.
Proposed IDA credit included on Bank teams, i e.
8% p.a.
Taxes:          33% on income before taxes.
B.   Funds Flow Statement (Annex 6-3)
Net income and annual depreciation are presented as sources of
funds available to DEG, and additional Government contributions are shown
net of these amounts.  However, according to present Guinean regulations,
net income and depreciation would not automatically be available for financ-
ing the requirements of the water entity but instead be transferred, via
the sector holding company OCOFI, to the Ministry of Plan. New capital
expenditures would be entirely financed by new Government equity contribu-
tions.
C.   Balance Sheet (Annex 6-4)
Fixed Assets:  Stated at historical values.  Items under
construction are transferred to Plant in
operation the year after capitalization.
Inventories:   Should build up in relation with consumption
of chemicals and supplies and correspond to
4 months consumption at end 1980 and thereafter.
Receivables:   To decrease to 4 months of billing by end 1980
and remain at this level thereafter.
Cash:           Represents only petty cash funds.  All other
cash is kept by OCOFI.
Government      Includes initial and subsequent contributions
Equity          from the Ministry of Plan, reduced by reimburse-
Contribution:  ments; accounts with OCOFI, and earnings of
current and prior years.
Long Term       Debt incurred after 1977 is included on pro-
Debt:           forma basis.  IDA and ADB financing is related
to the proposed project. The IDA credit is
included at Bank conditions, i.e. 8% interest
and a 25 year term, including 5 grace years.
"Other" represents a supplier's credit for the
Faranah/Gueckedou projects. Conditions are a
10 year term and 8% p.a. interest.
Current         Represent 3 months of cash expenses other than
Payables:       salaries.



- 63 -
GUINEA                ANNEX 6-6
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DEG 1977 SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENT
Conakry vs. Secondary Centers
(millions of Sylis)
Conakry       Secondary Centers        Total
Revenues                    31.0                 7.0              38.0
Current Operating
Expenses            17.3                11.0              28.3
Depreciation                18.7               10.0               28.7
Total Expenses              36.0                21.0              57.0
Operating Income            (5.0)             (14.0)             (19.0)
Quantities Billed
(Million cubic meters)   6.7                  1.1               7.8
Cost per cubic meter
(in Sylis, Excluding
interest)                  5.4               19.1                7.3
.



- 64 -
GUINEA                      ANNEX 6-7
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Foreign Long Term Borrowing Related to the
Guinean Water Sector
Initial
Installations                Amount,        Balance end 1977
Creditor    Year      Financed       Currency   Millions   millions   mill. US$ 3/
KfW           62    Conakry            DM          31.4        31.4 1/    14.8
German
Suppliers   65    Conakry             DM           3.4         3.4 1/    1.6
ADB           74    Conakry            U.C.         2.7         2.6        3.
ADB           76    Conakry            U.C.         0.5         0.5        0.6
USSR          63    N'Zerekore         Rbls.        1.7         1.4        1.9
Italian
Suppliers  70/71  Kindia/Kankan       It. L.       5500        5600 2/   6.i
28. 4l
1/   Reimbursement of the KfW loan should have started in 1970, and of thp
German suppliers' credit in 1968, but no payments have been made to
date.  For these two loans the unpaid interest, and additional interest
on past due amounts, are not included in the figures shown above. IF
seems that negotiations between the Guinean and West German Governme:its
could get underway on this issue later this year, as diplomatic rela-
tions have now been reestablished.
2/   Reimbursements of the Italian supplier credits have not been started
to date. Two reschedulings have been negotiated. The first instal-
ment due on the fiLrst rescheduling agreement was paid at the end of
1977.
3/   At end 1977 exchange rates.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6-8
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS
Monitoring Indicators 1978-1985
Indicators                                      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
1.  Staffing
Number of permanent employees:
Total DEG                                  280       286       312      318       323       332       337
Conakry Operations                         199       204       207      210       213       217       221
Conakry Staff per 1,000
registered connections                        39        35        31        25        21        18       17
2. Conakry Onerations
Water produced 000 m3/yr                 10,480   1,139    1,203    1,315   13,980    15,690  16,890
Water sold 000 m3/yr                      7,130   7,860    8,420    9,340   10,210    11,770  12,890
Accounted-for (%)                            68       69        70        71        73         75      76
No. of water connections made               250      500       900    1,200    1,400       1,500   1,600
No. of unregistered connections
converted to registered
connections                            0     170       300       300       300          0        0
No. of registered connections             5,106   5,776    6,876    8,376   10,076    11,576  13,176
Total number of connections               6,176   6,576    7,476    8,676   10,076    11,576  13,176
No. of working meters                       800   2,500    4,600    6,200    8,000    10,500  12,600
No. of standpipes installed                 102      142       182       222      262        302      342
No. of standpipes metered                     0       50        90       140      200         260     342
3. Secondary Centers
- Number of centers in operation              3        4         4         6         6          6        6
- Staff directly allocated                   79       82       1Q5      108       110        115      116
- Water produced 000 m3/yr                1,863   1,910    1,966    2,280    2,500         2,760   2,850
- Water sold 000 m3/yr                    1,110   1,347    1,386    1,600    1,765         1,893   2,005
- No. of connections metered                210      500       800    1,250    1,600       2,000   2,400
- No. of connections made                    50      115       100       210       150        150     200
- Total number of connections             1,925   2,040    2,140    2,350    2,500         2,650   2,850
- No. of working meters                     N.A.    350        700    1,200    1,600       2,000   2,400
4. Finances
DEG - Conakry:
-  Revenues, mill. Sylis                    45.8    62.4        72.4    99.3       108.5    148.0   161.4
-  Rate of Return, % 1/                      1.7      7.4        6.9    10.3         7.6      14.5    17.6
-  Operating Ratio                          92.1    75.6        78.6    69.7        74.2     60.3    59.1
DEG - Total Operations:
-  Revenues, mill. Sylis                    54.4    77.9        83.5   118.7       129.4    175.7   190.3
-  Operating Ratio, X                      120.6    95.9       103.5    91.2        95.5      77.6    76.6
-  Debt/Equity, X                           -        14.7       59.2    76.5        78.3      76.1    72.9
A               -  Current Ratio, %                           5.2      6.1        4.8     5.1        5.0       5.5      5.0
-  Debt Service Coverage Ratio, times    -            9.9        2.1      1.3        1.1       1.8      1.7
-  No, months of billing in receivables   6.2         5.2        4.2      4.2        4.2       4.1      4,1
1/ Indicated rates are computed on historical values of net fixed assets in operations (para. 6.14).



- 66 -
ANNEX 7-1
GUINEA
CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Improvement Plan to Be Implemented by DEG
Date or frequency
Description                                  as applicable
1.   Inventory of unregistered water supply connections             1979-198o
in the Conakry area and their inclusion in DEG's
normal metering and billing (para. 2.10).
2.   Increased efforts to collect receivables in order              1979-1980
to decrease their amount to 4 months of billing (para.
5.08).
3.   Revaluation of fixed assets in accordance with methods    each fiscal year
satisfactory to IDA and submission of data resulting          end starting
from this revaluation to IDA (para. 5.12).                    with 198(i
4.   Definition of the internal planning and budgetary              June 30, 1479
control function and assignment of such function to one
of DEG's managers (para. 5.19).
5.   Obtaining insurance by DEG for appropriate coverage           June 30, 1979
on general liability and losses of, and damage to,
buildings, inventory and vehicles (para. 5.20).
6.   Submission of a manpower development plan satisfactory    January 1, 1980
to the Association relating DEG's training program to
manpower requirements on each skill level in order to
achieve staff efficiency in line with monitoring
indicators acceptable to the Association (para. 5.24).
7.   Submission to the Government of proposals for modifica-   January 31, 1979
tions to the lump-sum contracts for water supply to the
Administration to reflect DEG's tariffs in effect of
January 1, 1979 (para. 6.14).
8.   Reorganization of DEG's administrative structure
in order to clarify and strengthen the responsibilities
delegated to line supervisors on DEG's various levels,
starting in 1979.



_________________________                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 13734
~~~ ~~~~              IA' ~~~~~~~ To  voko,ETEICE  IE
Yookndlkov
N: \GAOUAL ,                                                
OCEAN                               tf/
-  i  Under ConstrucAVtion                  ' -                                                                             ci  
For St~~~~~~~dyunde' Proposed Project ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       'ToCertessedes ii~~~~~~~~~~~sa
Above 80.000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
*  Above  10,000 ~ ~~t                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
WAInEg PYoTEctS:W TRSPL                                                                                             N
L-        Ricner Pronserctio
FoO      td   ne Proposed BPyrte jMnin
POPropsedIrnOreMN          n                                                                           IE                                                  ~oodevt,~c
Abover                                                                                            N                                                                                                               bid1
-.       Abovert onal0 BoEdaieUBLICi,,   i,OFs,.nGUINEA~i >M






_   -                                                ,         -.       X                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUINEA
-p -ryl  -tc-:vrv 4   .. -   F ..  is.oowo -.  _    ;    X ; -   -ETu5A.i ;    FIRST WATERSUPPLYANDSANITATION PROJECT                                              GUI NEA
PROJECT COMPONENTS
EXIST NG MAIN WATER SUMPLY FACILIT ES
I                                                                  -     .-   .............._
AN.rCl-  -1~                                                            A
W;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K wFT+< ->
.OLeAS ,9MAD NA USSOu: / 8, *, s ,6 5 t * i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FOEX 1 SEXISTING                                                    '                        '    I..                              I 
F NPANSE A lNE S             .    -TEE  E IASXTANE T INET AST N S                                               ' N             '              -TN
_  11.......ET IDN ET   a       ^ N  ... A   RQSERORT   T'   
|  j N| F  |DST RIFUANST N E NNE NSRr TO Fe   1ATL  5EL Cs > F IR



