Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2400a-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PEIDENT OF THE
INTERTIONAL DEVELOPM           ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEYELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
EUMBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A FIRST
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
December 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =         Syli
US$1.00          =        20 Sylis
Syli 1.00                 US$0.05
MEASURES
1 m2                      3.28 ft.
1 m 2                    10.76 sq. ft.
1 km                      0.38 sq. mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      =    African Development Bank
COMECON  -    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DCA      =    Development Credit Agreement
DEG      =    Entreprise Nationale de Distribution
d'Eau de Guinee
DPH      =    Division of Preventive Hygiene
EEC      -    European Economic Community
MIE      3    Ministry of Industry and Energy
MLHW     -    Ministry of Large Hydraulic Works
OCOFI    -    Office de Coordination Financiere de
l'Industrie
OECD     -    Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
OPEC     -    Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
RAC      f   Region Administrative de Conakry
WHO           World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (since 1977)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GIJINEA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Guinea
Beneficiaries:      DEG and MIE.  Guinean law makes no provision for onlending
of loan proceeds from one segment of a state-owned sector
to another. The proceeds of the Credit would thus be
treated as a grant from the Government, with DEG and MIE
receiving substantial technical assistance. MIE would also
use part of the Credit to construct the project's major civil
works components. These assets would be transferred to DEG
and to the City of Conakry (drainage works) which would in
turn ensure their efficient operation and maintenance.
Amount:             US$12.5 million
Terms:              Standard
Project             The project aims to fulfill the immediate water supply
Description:      and drainage needs of Conakry, provide satisfactory
sanitation to most of its population, and strengthen
institutions operating in the sector. It would be executed
over the period 1979-1983 and would: (a) construct trans-
mission and distribution mains and pipes, reservoirs, a
booster pumping station, and a treatment facility, and
drill, rehabilitate and equip boreholes; (b) provide house
connections, standpipes, water meters and related equipment
and materials; (c) purchase chemicals and small vehicles
for services responsible for well inspection and disinfec-
tion; (d) upgrade drainage ditches; (e) install 10 sanitary
blocks (for drinking and washing) in low-income parts of
Conakry; (f) provide 39 man-years of technical assistance
and consulting services and 20 man-years of fellowships;
(g) establish a training program within DEG; and (h)
construct housing, and training and office space.
The project would increase the access to potable water
of Conakry's population from 41 percent to 64 percent,
reduce the incidence of disease through improved drainage
of contaminated water, and help the sector institutions
(i) increase Conakry's water supply capacity by 60 percent
by 1983 and (ii) prepare to manage 7 new water systems by
1985. The project faces no significant technical risks.
The probability of achieving the institutional and manpower
improvement objectives is high due to strong Government
interest and ample technic:al assistance provided.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:*
(Net of Taxes)                                    Local     Foreign    Total
-------(US$ million)------
Category of Expenditure
Equipment                                 0.1        4.5        4.6
Civil Works                               2.1        5.1        7.2
Construction (Housing and Offices)        0.1        0.3        0.4
Training                                  0.1        0.3        0.4
Technical Assistance and Consultants    0.0          4.2        4.2
BASE COST                        2.4       14.4      16.8
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.3        1.2        1.5
Price                                     0.7        2.9        3.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST               3.4      18.5       21.9
*    Taxes are not included in the project cost except for US$0.4 million
of taxes on the local cost component of the sanitation and drainage
works.
Internal Economic
Rate of Return:    16% at the official exchange rate of Sylis 20/US$1;
7% at the shadow exchange rate of Sylis 35/US$1
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
IDA Credit                                 -         12.5      12.5
African Development Bank                   -          6.0        6.0
Government                                3.4         -         3.4
TOTAL                     3.4        18.5      21.9
Estimated Disbursements:
FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83
-----------------US$ million-------------
Annual             0.62      3.63      4.87     2.88       0.50
Cumulative         0.62      4.25      9.12    12.00      12.50
Staff Appraisal
Report:            2127-GUI, dated November 16, 1978



INTERNATiONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR
A WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Guinea for the equivalent of US$12.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finances a Water Supply and Sanitation
Project. The African Development Bank (ADB) has approved a loan to the
Republic of Guinea for the equivalent of US$6.0 million to help finance in
parallel specific project components. The ADB loan would have a term of
17 years including grace with interest at 7 percent per annum plus a
statutory commission of 1 percent and a service charge of .75 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY*
2.        The last economic report (No. Af-63b, dated September 1, 1967)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 22, 1968. From 1970
to 1977 a number of economic missions visited the country during which a
wide-ranging and active dialogue was conducted with the Government on several
economic, monetary, and other development issues. Our last economic mission
took place in March 1978, and its findings and those of earlier missions
are reflected in the following assessment of the state of the economy and its
prospects.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Guinea is potentially one of the richest countries in West Africa
with substantial natural resources in the rural sector, mining, and to a
lesser extent hydroelectric power. Its broad range of eco-climatic zones,
from the sub-Saharan north to sub-tropical mountain areas in the center and
tropical forest in the south, allows the production of a variety of agricul-
tural commodities. At the time of Independence in 1958, Guinea had been
the leading African exporter of bananas (100,000 tons per year) and also
exported considerable quantities of coffee, pineapple and palm oil; it was
able to meet most of its basic foodstuff requirements, whereas it is now a
food importer. The country is particularly well suited for rice and livestock
production. Guinea's extraordinarily rich mining potential includes bauxite
reserves tentatively estimated at 4.5 billion tons, the second largest in the
world, while readily exportable high-grade iron ore deposits are estimated at
over one billion tons. Prospects for diamond and uranium mining and offshore
oil exploration are being actively investigated.
*    The text of this section is largely unc'hanged from the President's
Report for the First Education Project which was distributedd to the
Executive Directors on August 30, 1978.



-2-
Long-Term Trends
4.        In spite of this outstanding resource endowment, economic perform-
anice from the time of Independence until 1972 was disappointing. While lack
of adequate data prevents a detailed assessment, estimated real growth of GNP
during this period was less than 2.5 percent annually. This was somewhat
lower than the annual estimated population growth rate of 2.6 percent and
therefore real per capita incomes actually declined. The years following
Independence were characterized by a comprehensive reorganization of all
economic and social activities in Guinea with a view to building a social-
ist economy. This entailed (a) a sharp curtailment of the private sector
and the establishment of Government trading companies operating at con-
trolled prices, (b) the creation of numerous public enterprises, and (c)
extensive State investment in industrial and social infrastructure. Returns
on many projects were limited by managerial inexperience and planning
inadequacies, and public enterprises absorbed high and rising amounts of
Government resources. The capital and recurrent costs of public investment
soon exceeded budgetary savings and the Government resorted to heavy foreign
borrowing and Central Bank advances to finance them. Foreign borrowing from
both Western and Eastern bloc countries was carried out on an ad hoc basis
with little longer-term planning and soon resulted in unmanageable debt
obligations that could not be met by declining export proceeds. At the same
time the liberal advances of the Central Bank led to a huge increase in money
supply and galloping inflation. Consequently the public trading enterprises
could neither obtain adequate supplies of local goods at official prices nor
distribute them widely enough, and an active parallel market developed with
prices as much as ten times their official level. Furthermore, the lack of
foreign exchange caused sharp reductions in imports of intermediate inputs,
which constrained production in both manufacturing and agriculture, and in
consumer goods, all of which limited incentives throughout the economy. The
economy thus stagnated in a vicious circle of foreign exchange shortages and
declining investment, output and exports.
5.        While lack of foreign exchange sharply limited the supply of im-
ported goods, and indirectly of local products as well, excess money supply
strongly stimulated local demand, contributing from that side to the growing
imbalance between supply and demand at official prices. As a result of 15
years of deficit financing, money supply reached a high level of nearly 70
percent of GDP in 1972 or over three times the level attained in most other
West African countries.  Most of this money overhang was concentrated in
the urban areas where it aggravated the severe excess demand situation and
absorbed much of the limited supply of goods that would otherwise have been
available to the rural areas.
6.        At a socio-economic level, these trends created considerable diffi-
culties.  The rural population, about 80 percent of the total, operated prin-
cipally at a subsistence level, selling as little as possible in the official
market, and was largely excluded from the official distribution of imported
consumer goods. On the other hand, the urban population had to compete for
the limited supply of goods it could buy through official channels with
rationing cards and supplement its needs in the unofficial market at very
high prices. Large segments of the urban population were thus affected by
the system as much as the average farmer.



-3-
Recent Developments
7.        The start of operations at two large bauxite mines in 1974 marked
the end of this long period of economic stagnation. Since then, real per
capita incomes have increased year by year at an average of nearly 7.5 per-
cent, although they have not yet reached pre-Independence levels in real
terms. By 1977 GDP in current terms was estimated at US$1,192 million, and
based on an estimated population of 4.7 million, annual per capita GNP was
US$230. 1/  The rural sector continues to dominate the economy, although
with the recent growth of the mining sector, -the share of GDP at factor
costs contributed by the rural sector has fallen, declining from 56 percent
in 1974 to 48 percent in 1977. The share of GDP in other sectors during
1977 was 21 percent in mining, 6 percent in manufacturing, power and con-
struction, 15 percent in public administration, and 10 percent in other
services. Although administration of the economy is still extremely cen-
tralized, mining has been a mixed sector since Independence and the Govern-
ment works extremely well with private foreign companies, encouraging further
private mining investments. Agricultural policies are under review, with
Government abandoning attempts to collectivize farming activities in favor
of promoting voluntary farm cooperatives. Banking and manufacturing remain
entirely State controlled. While, de jure, all trading takes place through
official State channels, the Government has recently become more tolerant
of private trading; improving relations between Guinea and the Ivory Coast
and Senegal have led to some lessening of restrictions on the circulation
of goods and people, and this has relieved part of the pressure on prices
in the private markets.
Performance
8.        Guinea's overall economic performance has improved significantly
since 1972, although fundamental structural problems continue to hamper the
country's economic development. The markedly faster growth of GDP is mostly
attributable to the start of the two new mining operations, and is in itself
not a sufficient sign of better performance. More important, however, are
the Government policies concerning the use of the additional foreign exchange
resources created by the two mines, which to the extent possible have been
carefully allocated in an effort to overcome the economy's structural con-
straints. Thus, while nearly half of these export earnings has had to be used
to pay for direct foreign exchange costs of the two mining operations, the
remainder has gone mainly to increase imports of essential raw materials and
1/   Although an official government census put total 1972 population at
5.5 million, a critical evaluation of this census and later data on
test regions do not support a figure above 4.2 million for 1972 and
4.7 for mid-1977. All population-related data in this report are
based on this latter figure. GDP is based on the findings of a recent
UNDP/government agricultural survey and is higher than past estimates.
Therefore, population and GDP figures differ from those in the Bank
Atlas, now being updated to reflect these changes.



certain consumer goods with a view to (a) providing more inputs for manufac-
turing and agriculture, (b) improving rural producer incentives, and (c)
reducing excess demand. In the agricultural sector these measures have been
complemented by a number of actions intended to increase production, such as
more rural public investment, a slight increase in some producer prices,
and more deliberate efforts to improve distribution of consumer goods in
the hinterland. As a result, food imports have declined slightly over
the last two years, further improving Guinea's foreign exchange situation.
9.        Higher bauxite exports also contri-buted substantially to increased
Government revenues, which were to a large extent turned over to the Central
Bank to amortize the high amounts of accumulated Central Bank advances. At
the same time Government expenditures increased only slowly. As a result of
these deflationary measures, the net increase in money supply slowed down well
below the rapid growth of GDP, leading to a inarked reduction in the money
overhang. This was an important factor in the nearly 50 percent fall in
prices on the parallel market over the last two years, which led to an improve-
ment in the real purchasing power of most of Guinea's poorest population.
10.       Since 1974, public revenues have been growing at 33 percent
annually, but public recurrent expenditures have increased at only 12 per-
cent per year. Government has nevertheless begun to allocate a larger propor-
tion of its recurrent budget for maintenance expenses and for the purchase of
spare parts, which reflects its growing desire to maintain and fully exploit
existing capital assets. There is such a backlog of necessary maintenance,
however, that even with higher allocations Government services and public
enterprises have difficulty operating normally. Finally, the viability of
the extensive system of public enterprises is under examination; a few of the
least successful have been closed down while a rehabilitation program has been
embarked upon for some others. The Government's objective is to make these
enterprises self-sufficient, and it is becoming increasingly realistic in
recognizing thie need to revise pricing policies to enhance cash flows, ensure
adequate credit to maintain working capital and stocks, and call upon foreign
technical assistance to strengthen operational efficiency.
Development Planning and Objectives
11.       Development planning in Guinea has so far met with limited success,
and implementation of the 1973-1978 Plan was suspended in 1974 when Plan goals
became unrealistic and the economy was undergoing substantial change. Since
then capital expenditures have been determined annually, subject to the
availability of foreign credit.  Between 1973 and 1975 investment had to be
financed entirely by foreign capital inflows. In 1976 and 1977 net domestic
public savings were positive and financed a substantial share of public in-
vestment, which was, however, less than half the 1973-75 level. Thus total
investment outlays fell from US$79 million in 1974 to US$28 million in 1976
and US$31.5 million in 1977 due especially to the completion of the two
major bauxite mining projects. Finally, the sectoral distribution of public
investments also varied considerably, with the proportion of rural investment
rising from some 11 percent in 1974 to almost 33 percent in 1975 and falling
back to 18 percent in 1976. The share of industry and mining declined from
46 percent in 1974 to 24 percent in 1976.



-5-
Prospects
12.       While the Government's first investment priority is now rural devel-
opment, in the short and medium term Guinea's overall economic development
prospects hinge critically on the rate of growth in the mining sector. Mining
exports increased from US$61 million in 1973 to US$312 million in 1977 and are
likely reach US$494 million by 1980 when the two bauxite mines that started
production in 1974 reach full capacity. This level of exports is expected to
be maintained until 1984. New projects scheduled for completion by 1985 would
permit exports to exceed US$1.5 billion in 1985 and reach more than twice that
amount by 1990 when new mines begin producing at full capacity. In the
meantime, however, the foreign exchange situation will almost certainly remain
tight and would become particularly critical if there were major delays in the
realization of new mining projects. Two main factors explain this difficult
situation: first, according to the Bank's detailed projections, less than
half of the incremental mining export revenues will accrue to Guinea in the
form of freely available foreign exchange, since 50-60% of the gross export
proceeds are needed to cover the operating costs of these mining operations in
foreign exchange including debt service and transfer of dividends. The net
benefits the country is likely to derive from its mining projects will thus be
much smaller than the gross export receipts might suggest. Second, the high
debt service payments, including substantial arrears, as discussed below, will
necessarily be a major drain on the balance of payments. Furthermore, Guinea's
laudable policies of improving producer incentives and better maintaining its
transport and manufacturing investments will require additional foreign
exchange. Consequently, Guinea will need large amounts of foreign aid to
support the balance of payments until at least 1985 to enable it to carry out
vital mining investments without reducing its already low standard of living.
13.       The prospects for Guinea's general macroeconomic development are
good. The Government is determined to further improve the monetary situation,
to correct the results of past overly expansionary policies, and to do away
with the profound disequilibrium between supply and demand which caused the
flourishing parallel market and the rationing of basic consumer goods in the
towns. The question still remains as to how best these goals may be achieved.
It is unlikely that any sudden, fundamental changes will be enacted to restruc-
ture the macroeconomic system as a whole. In the interests of political and
economic caution, a gradual approach will probably be taken. This would
involve the revision of industrial and producer prices, a reassessment of the
public enterprises sector, and a continued shrinking of the money supply in
relation to GDP. Both the Bank and IMF have begun and are maintaining an
increasingly effective dialogue with Government on these questions, including
foreign debt.
Foreign Assistance and Debt
14.       In the past few years Guinea has been diversifying its sources of
foreign assistance.  It has obtained multilateral aid from ADB, EEC, and IDA,
as well as from OPEC countries (Algeria, Iraq, Libya, Kuwait Fund, Saudi
Fund), and is likely to receive increased financial assistance from a variety
of bilateral sources (notably France). The country has had a heavy foreign
debt burden for many years which has siphoned off a large portion of its
limited foreign exchange. In spite of several debt rescheduling agreements,



the situation became unmanageable in the early 1970s, and by mid-1976 Guinea
had accumulated arrears of US$88 million. Debt service obligations in that
year (excluding arrears) reached some US$54 million or 25 percent of total
export proceeds, although actual payments were at most 20 percent of what was
due. Of these arrears, some 85 percent was due to Western countries, parti-
cularly the Federal Republic of Germany. At the end of 1976, total debt
outstanding including undisbursed reached some US$950 million, nearly 88
percent of which was in the form of long-termi loans and only 12 percent was
supplier credits. The USSR and the People's Republic of China are by far the
two largest creditor countries (holding respectively 30 and 13 percent of
Guinea's total debt) while COMECON countries together with China account for
50 percent. OECD countries hold close to 23 percent, multilateral agencies
and the OPEC countries 10 and 6 percent each, while minor amounts are owed to
a number of developing countries.
15.       Notwithstanding Guinea's favorable long-term balance of payments
prospects, the accumulated claims on the country's foreign exchange earnings
will remain so heavy in the next few years that not all debt servicing obli-
gations can be covered. With debt service charges of at least US$100 million
per year, little amortization of foreign debt will be possible during the
late 1970s and early 1980s, even if foreign capital inflows cover the entire
foreign exchange cost of new investments, and arrears are thus likely to rise
further. Guinea is already negotiating debt rescheduling programs bilaterally
with some of its creditors and has requested Bank advice on the design of a
program of debt management. With continued tight control and monitoring of
imports of spare parts and raw materials and restraint on the importing of
consumer goods, foreign exchange earnings should start to exceed minimum
import requirements by about 1980 and debt amortization could then begin
again. During the next few critical years, however, Guinea will have to rely
on substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessionary terms not only
for investment purposes but also to provide foreign exchange for essential
imports including consumption goods.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
16.       To date, the Bank Group has financed four operations in Guinea.
Two loans totalling US$73.5 million in 1968 and 1971 financed infrastructure
for the Boke bauxite mining project. IDA credits of US$7.0 million, US$14
million, and US$8.0 million respectively were granted in June 1975 for a pine-
apple development project, in December 1975 for a road maintenance project,
and in September 1978 for a first education project. Annex II contains a
summary of Bank loans and IDA credits and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       In view of the general shortage of foreign exchange and the poor
state of infrastructure in Guinea, the Bank Group's first projects aimed at
promoting mining and agricultural exports and rehabilitating the road system.
The Boke project was completed satisfactorily and bauxite output has increased
steadily, reaching about 7.4 million tons in 1977. Despite some delays in
execution, the Daboya project is now exporting fresh fruit to Europe and a
second pineapple project based on expanded smallholder development is under



consideration. The First Highway project followed shortly after the Daboya
Credit and aims at rehabilitating and maintaining the essential road infra-
structure network vital for agricultural development.
18.       Our experience in the execution of these earlier projects has been
encouraging, reflecting the fact that Government priorities generally
coincide with the Bank Group's. We will therefore expand our efforts to
maintain and upgrade basic infrastructure through additional road maintenance
projects and efforts in the water supply sewerage, and electric power sectors,
initially concentrating on the deteriorated system in Conakry, the capital.
A US$1.13 million IDA Credit for a Power Engineering and Repair Project is
being processed simultaneously with the proposed water supply and sanitation
project described in this report. The need for the Engineering and Repair
Credit became evident during preparation (financed under PPF) of the proposed
First Power Project to be appraised in 1979. It was apparent that repairs to
certain generating units would have to be undertaken immediately to preclude
the total collapse of Conakry's power system and also that further preparatory
work was required on the forthcoming power project. The Association's First
Education Project recently approved by the Board arose out of the clear need
for more trained technical manpower and aims to assist the Government in
improving and expanding training programs for industrial technicians and
skilled workers with emphasis on institution building. Because of the vital
importance of mining in helping alleviate the country's foreign exchange
shortage, the Bank Group is also considering further intervention in this
sector. Feasibility studies are almost completed for the Nimba Iron Ore
Mining project.
19.       The Government of Guinea gives a high priority to development of
its agricultural and livestock potential; it is in this rural sector, however,
that the country is experiencing the greatest difficulty in harnessing its
development potential. The Bank Group has attempted to support this Govern-
ment priority but has itself experienced considerable difficulty in finding
non-enclave projects suitable for financing. This is due largely to the
absence of a rational system of economic incentives to farmers and herdsmen,
the lack of basic institutional support for the rural sector, and the effect
these problems have on the willingness of the Guinean peasant to respond
to rural development attempts. We are nevertheless preparing projects in
the rice and livestock sectors with the hope of beginning to deal with these
fundamental issues. This effort will obviously come to fruition rather
slowly. Our future rural development projects as well as all others under
preparation in Guinea will emphasize improved management, investment planning,
and project implementation.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's external debt outstanding and
disbursed and of total debt service amounted to 7 percent and 4.6 percent
respectively in 1977 with IDA representing only a negligible proportion.
By 1985 IDA's contribution to Guinea's total external debt will increase to
about 2 percent while IBRD's will fall to roughly 5 percent. Because most of
the debt presently owed the Bank Group will be amortized by the mid-eighties
and payments on new borrowings will not yet be due, IBRD's share of debt
service will drop to 2 percent, while that of IDA will remain insignificant.



- 8 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
21.       Compared to Sahelian countries, Guinea is well endowed with water
resources. The country relies mostly on surface water as there have been no
serious attempts, except in the Conakry area, to investigate the extent and
possible utilization of ground water.  Most of the rivers tapped are perennial
and even during the dry season adequately supply the needs of nearby popula-
tion centers. There are springs close to some centers, but they usually
yield insufficient water to satisfy these cities. A first UNDP project is
now being implemented with World Meteorological Organization's assistance and
is devised to set up monitoring of river flows and selected ground water
resources in Central Guinea and to assist and strengthen the national hydro-
logical bureau of the Ministry of Large Hydraulic Works (MLHW).
22.       The Government of Guinea has recently approached the Association
to request assistance in the preparation of a natianal water master plan for
the use of its surface water resources for power, irrigation, water supply
and, possibly, for river transport. Discussions are under way both to define
a pragmatic approach to this multi-sectoral study, and to obtain the partici-
pation of other development agencies.
Levels of Service
23.       Presently, the rural population obtains its water supply essen-
tially from shallow wells and running streams. They depend primarily on
hand dug wells which often dry out in the dry season and, until recently,
little exploration of ground water had been undertaken to find alternatives
to often long and weary travel in search for water.
24.       While three mining centers have piped water systems serving their
entire population, the level of service in other urban centers is not signi-
ficantly better than in rural areas. It is estimated that about 10% of the
urban population benefits from a piped system. Apart from the mining centers,
Conakry has probably the highest level of service, with 42% of the population
served through about 6000 private connections and 100 standposts. In urban
areas four other centers have piped water operated by-Entreprise Nationale
de Distribution d'Eau de Guinee (DEG). The remainder of urban centers have
piped water supplies limited to areas occupied by public services such as
ministries, hospitals and schools. The large portion of the population not
served by these piped water systems obtain their water supplies from shallow
wells, ponds or running streams, all of which may be polluted. Service is
poor even from the piped water systems and is often provided intermittently
for a few hours a day. Moreover, the water is seldom chlorinated. In general,
water works are old and in poor condition; many of the standpipes are not
operative, and in cases where they do operate, the surrounding sanitary
conditions are so bad that they frequently constitute a health hazard.



- 9 -
25.       Only Conakry and the mining centers of Kamsar and Fria have sanitary
sewage systems. The Conakry network of sewers is limited to pre-Independence
city limits and appears clogged in many points; connections between the drain-
age and sewerage systems have been made to help dispose of sewage, but these
arrangements do not constitute satisfactory long-term alternatives. Septic
tanks, soakaways, and pit latrines are in common use in urban areas and a fre-
quent source of contamination to private wells too closely located.
Sector Organization
26.       The management of the water supply and sanitation sector is divided
among a large number of government agencies. While primary responsibility
for planning and executing new installations and extensions of water supply
and sewerage systems lies with the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE),
the Ministry of Plan is responsible for the financing of new investments
and the Central Bank for mobilizing foreign loans for the sector. Once new
installations and extensions are completed, their ownership and operation
are transferred to the DEG. However DEG does not control the Conakry drainage
system, which is under the authority of the city of Conakry, nor water supply
systems in mining towns, which are run by mining companies, nor a number of
embryonic municipal systems managed by the regional offices of the Ministry
of Rural Development. In rural areas, the Ministry of Large Hydraulic
Works (MLHW) is responsible for water supply as well as for water resources
inventory and allocation.
27.       The Division of Preventive Hygiene (DPH) within the Ministry of
Public Health is responsible for water quality control and supervision of
all water supply sources, but its manpower and material shortage limits
its role to urban areas. Drainage and solid wastes disposal are handled by
Regional Administrative Authorities. Their related activities are minimal
because of deteriorating equipment, lack of resources, inadequate planning
and shortage of qualified staff.
28.       The main problems the Government faces in trying to rationalize and
expand the operations of he sector are the paucity of information on the
potential of the sector, the lack of qualified personnel to plan, build and
operate works, and the lack of necessary data that officials could use to
determine the cost of maintaining and operating the present water and sanita-
tion system. The Government is aware of the situation and is focussing on
providing the main operating entity, DEG, with qualified staff to manage
and maintain the newly built or improved systems. As more information on
water resources and design requirements become available, the planning and
designing functions within MIE would be enlarged and receive greater emphasis.
As a start the Government agreed to strengthen the planning role of MIE,
through assistance from a technical expert provided under the proposed project.
DEG's Organization, Management and Finances
29.       DEG, which was established in 1961 following nationalization of the
private company that operated the Conakry water and sewerage systems, has been



- 10 -
entrusted with nation-wide operations of such systems. Not only does it
operate the water and sewerage network in Conakry, and the water systems in
a number of other urban centers, but it is also expected to manage all new
systems for which long-term borrowing is foreseen.
30.       Like all state enterprises in the industry and energy sector,
DEG is a subsidiary of the Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie
(OCOFI) the holding company of the sector, which is responsible for overview-
ing the financial operations and managing the funds of DEG. OCOFI is under-
staffed and in fact plays a minor role in the present management of the sector.
DEG is run by an experienced Director General appointed by decree. However,
the performance of DEG has been generally unsatisfactory, as evidenced by
the deteriorating condition of the network it operates.
31.       DEG's poor performance is due to a combination of staffing, organi-
zational and financial problems. Clearly overstaffed at the lower levels, DEG
is critically short of staff at the middle and upper technical and managerial
echelons. A number of supervisory positions are exercised by former laborers
who acquired their skills with the former concessionaire but are now close
to retirement age. Several middle level technicians, who were trained by
expatriates hired by DEG in 1965, have since left the agency. Many of the
newly recruited engineers had little experience before assuming their present
responsibilities. DEG has agreed to keep new recruitment at lower levels to a
minimum while emphasizing training and redeploying of existing staff. DEG is
expected to prepare a manpower plan involving detailed projections of manpower
requirements at each skill level and proposals for related training activities.
The proposed project also includes a large technical assistance and training
program designed to help DEG improve its present operations and meet the
requirements of its expanding activities.
32.       Understaffing at the upper technical and managerial levels largely
explains some of the deficiencies in DEG's organizational structure. Out of
necessity the Director General has assumed a number of day-to-day operational
functions, including direct supervision of operations in secondary centers,
which should normally be handled by functional departments. Several functions
crucial to the long-term planning of DEG's activities are not assigned to any
organizational unit. DEG's management is aware of its problems. A revised
organizational structure has been approved by the Government and will be
implemented during project execution. As part of its recent auditing of
DEG's financial statements, Price Waterhouse has analyzed the agency's finan-
cial function and identified needed improvements in its accounting system and
procedures. Follow-up technical assistance and further annual audits (para.
45) would help implement these improvements. The Government has also agreed
to relax some of the bureaucratic controls by MIE and OCOFI which inhibit
DEG's operational and financial initiatives. However, the effectiveness of
the reorganization of DEG's structure and operations largely hinges on the
success of the proposed technical assistance and training programs.



- 11 -
33.       DEG's operations are also hampered by severe financial constraints.
Water tariffs are set by MIE, in agreement with other Ministries, and until
this year have had no relationship to the cost of operating the water systems,
nor to the need to replace worn out installations and equipment. As a result,
DEG's operations have resulted in heavy deficits which would have been even
higher if normal maintenance had been performed. In April 1978, however, the
water tariff was doubled and the new tariff is expected to cover DEG's cash
operating expenses plus depreciation during the project implementation period.
Sector Investments and Financing
34.       Over the past decade, capital expenditures in the sector have been
very low and have depended entirely on external financing. Total public
investment in the water sector has amounted to only US$12 million over the
past 5 years. Since the extension of the Conakry production and transmission
works in 1965, water supply and sewage and drainage investments suffered
severe cutbacks until 1973 when the Government received financial aid from
Italian bilateral aid and supplier's credit ( approximately US$6.4 million) to
expand water systems in four provincial centers. Eventually the scope of this
expansion program had to be limited to the cities of Kindia and Kankan because
of cost increases. In 1971, the Russian Government provided a US$1.9 million
loan for the town of Nzerekore, and in 1975 the African Development Bank (ADB)
provided about US$3.7 million to rehabilitate the production facilities and
improve the transmission network of the Conakry operations. Investments in
the rural areas have been negligible, though recently the European Development
Fund awarded a grant of about US$4.5 million to finance drilling equipment and
technical training for drillers and maintenance units within the MLHW.
35.       Following cholera outbreaks in Conakry in early 1974, the Government
decided to give a high priority to the development of an adequate water supply
and sanitation program for the capital city. Feasibility studies of water
supply and drainage/sanitation systems required by the city of Conakry over
the next decade are being financed respectively by ADB and UNDP with WHO as
executing agent. These studies are now nearing completion. The water supply
study indicates that investments for the water sub-sector may reach some US$75
million over that period. Final conclusions of the UNDP-financed feasibility
studies concerning extension of drainage and sewage disposal facilities to
the entire urban area of Conakry have not yet been reached, and final cost
estimates will depend on the level of service to be provided. However, on the
basis of the preliminary findings of these studies, it is estimated that the
costs for rehabilitating the city's existing sewerage network and for extend-
ing appropriate service to new sections of the city might reach some US$110
million over the next ten years while the cost for the drainage network
might be on the order of US$70 million. At the request of the Association
and before they are finalized, these UNDP feasibility studies will also
investigate less costly alternative sanitation systems for the city.
36.       In addition to these studies, the Government is planning a series
of feasibility studies of water supply and sanitation systems for seven large
administrative centers where infrastructure is currently inadequate. At



- 12 -
Government's request, provision to finance these studies has been included in
the proposed credit. It is estimated that the cost of the works might reach
approximately US$30 million over the next decade; however, more precise
estimates will depend on the findings regarding availability of ground water
resources in the area of these centers and on the level of service to be
provided.
37.       The Government has also obtained a $7 million supplier's credit
to begin construction of water supply systems for two additional, high
priority secondary centers, Faranah and Gueckedou. Construction of these
schemes, based on technical studies prepared in 1965, would start by the
end of 1978. In an agreed effort to avoid the overuse of suppliers credit,
the Government would review with the Association financing plans for any
future expenditures in the water sector over US$1 million per year (para 55).
38.       In connection with the 1981-1990 International Drinking Water and
Sanitation Decade, the Government of Guinea has requested WHO's support to
conduct with its own services a rapid assessment of the country's most urgent
investment needs in areas other than Conakry with a view to resume active
Government participation in providing basic water and sanitation to the popu-
lation. This assessment was completed in July 1978 and will help the Govern-
ment refine its next five-year development program.
39.       An additional problem confronting the sector is its near total
dependence on foreign imports for its operational needs and for minor replace-
ments and extensions. This heavy dependence on foreign supply could be
partly remedied for water operations with the production of aluminum sulphate
and plastic pipes in Guinea. Alumina is now produced in Fria, Guinea by the
Societe Friguia through a process that would allow the production of aluminum
sulphate. Management of the Fria plant and the Guinean Government have
indicated that, although they had not heretofore considered whether a viable
market exists in Guinea and neighboring countries, they would favor invest-
ments for local production of aluminum sulphate if market studies determined
its viability. The proposed credit would include provisions for these market
studies. During negotiations the Government agreed that if the conclusions
of the studies were favorable it would submit to the Friguia shareholders the
findings and recommendations for purposes of a prefeasibility study. Conakry,
moreover, has a concrete pipe manufacturing plant which is not working, and
studies are underway for its rehabilitation. The present process is accept-
able for pipes for drainage and sewerage but not for water supply and house
uses. Market studies to determine the opportunity of changing the process
presently used or having a separate plastic pipe manufacturing unit are
included in the proposed credit.
Bank Group Role
40.       The project proposed in this report represents the Bank Group's
first attempt to respond to the most immediate needs in the water supply
and sewerage sector: rehabilitation of the badly deteriorated Conakry water



- 13 -
supply and sanitation systems; technical assistance to DEG and MIE; training
of key staff in these organizations (the Bank Group's First Education Project
provides for the training of skilled labor and lower level technicians who
may find employment in the framework of the proposed project); provision of
accounting support essential to enable the Government to put the sector on a
sound financial footing; and studies aimed at helping the Government begin
planning long-term development of its urban water supply and sanitation
systems, and at reducing its dependence on imported supplies and materials for
the operation of this system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       In March 1977 the Guinean Government requested the Association
and ADB to finance the first phase of the rehabilitation and extension of the
Conakry water system. In August and November 1977, two IDA missions reviewed
the ADB-financed feasibility studies of the long-term expansion of the
city's water system (paragraph 35). Upon completion of the studies, the
proposed Water Supply and Sanitation Project was appraised in January 1978
by a joint ADB and IDA mission. Negotiations were held in Washington in
November 1978; the Guinean delegation was led by His Excellency Mamady Kaba,
Minister of Industry and Energy. A report entitled "Republic of Guinea -
Staff Appraisal Report - Conakry First Water Supply and Sanitation Project"
No. 2127-GUI of November 16, 1978 is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The project's objectives are to upgrade water supply and sanitary
conditions in Conakry and to improve the operations and maintenance of the
city's systems. In addition, it aims at strengthening sector institutions
and upgrading staff. The project would be carried out over the period 1979-
1983 and consists of the following components:
(a) construction of transmission and distribution mains
and pipes, reservoirs, a booster pumping station,
and a treatment facility, and drilling, rehabilitating,
and equipping of boreholes;
(b) provision of house connections, standpipes, water
meters and related equipment and materials;
(c) purchase of chemicals and small vehicles for
services responsible for well inspection and
disinfection;
*    See Map IBRD 13735 for location within Conakry area.



- 14 -
(d) conversion of unlined drainage ditches to concrete
drainage canals in 3 Conakry districts;
(e) installation of 10 sanitary blocks (for drinking
and washing) in low-income parts of Conakry;
(f) provision of 39 man-years of technical assistance
and consulting services and 20 man-years of
fellowships;
(g) establishment of a training program in DEG; and
(h) construction of housing, and training and
office space.
Project Unit
43.       The physical components of the project will be implemented and
their construction will be supervised by a Project Unit created within MIE.
In addition to the water and sewerage components, this Project Unit will be
responsible for implementing and supervising the drainage works executed under
the project. Since the city of Conakry normally assumes responsibility for
these works (see paragraph 26) but cannot discharge it effectively, it agreed
to temporarily transfer its authority to the Project Unit for implementing
this component. Once completed, the drainage works will be transferred to the
administrative authority of the city for operation and maintenance. A Guinean
project director with qualifications acceptable to both the Government and IDA
has been appointed to head the Project Unit. In addition to the Guinean
director and engineers, the Unit will be staffed, under technical assistance
financed by the proposed credit, by (i) an engineer acting as technical
adviser to the director, responsible for the day-to-day coordination and
supervision of all activities related to work carried out by contractors; and
(ii) two civil works technicians responsible with Guinean engineers for the
monitoring of works, execution, contracts and commissioning of new instal-
lations and equipment. These three experts would have qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Government and
IDA (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)) and
their employment would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b)
of draft DCA).
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
44.       The above-mentioned technical assistance to staff the Project Unit
would be part of approximately 13 man-years (at an average cost of US$9,000 per
man-month including about US$1,500 of reimbursable expenses) of technical
assistance to MIE designed to strengthen its planning and project implementa-
tion capabilities. In addition to the three experts seconded to the Project
Unit, a planning expert to help MIE implement recommendations of the WHO water
and sanitation review and other water studies would be included in this tech-
nical assistance package.



- 15 -
45.       The project would also provide about 13 man-years (at an average
cost of US$7,500 per man-month) of consulting services and technical assistance
to DEG to help the entity set up appropriate operations and maintenance prac-
tices, and to strengthen its meter reading, billing and collection procedures.
This assistance would consist of: (a) five operations experts -- a technical
adviser to DEG's management, a distribution engineer, a water treatment
technician, an electromechanics technician, and a meter repair and mechanics
workshop technician; and (b) a commercial expert for the meter reading,
billing and collection procedures. The project would also finance audits of
DEG's 1976 and 1977 accounts and technical assistance to examine its account-
ing system with a view to helping establish an efficient accounting unit and
introducing financial discipline (paragraphs 31 and 32). As a condition of
effectiveness MIE would employ and second to DEG the five operations experts
with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA (Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA).
Training
46.       In addition to the above assistance and in order to remedy DEG's
staffing problems mentioned in paragraph 31, the project would provide for
the following: (a) the services of a training officer for 27 man-months
(at an average cost of US$7,500 per man-month) to help DEG set up and follow
up a training program for its labor force; the employment of this expert with
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Government and IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of
draft DCA); (b) the creation of a training unit within DEG; and (c) the
provision of about 20 man-years of fellowships for: (i) 5 baccalaureate
graduates to pursue 3-year university programs abroad in public works and
sanitary engineering; (ii) 3 university graduates to extend their education by
one year in the sanitary, urban hydraulics, and water resources management
fields; and (iii) 12 DEG technicians to perform apprenticeships and attend
seminars at foreign water supply entities for about 2 months each.
Studies
47.       The project would provide for about 11 man-years (at an average cost
of US$9,000 per man-month) of consulting services for studies to determine:
(a) the availability and methods of protecting ground water resources to
supply Conakry; (b) the feasibility of water supply systems in seven secondary
urban centers; (c) the market for alumina subproducts for possible local
processing of aluminum sulphate for water treatment with a view to replacing
imports; (d) the feasibility of a plastic pipe manufacturing unit, also for
import substitution; and (e) ways of assisting and promoting a local civil
works construction industry and of training local contractors. These studies
would be conducted under MIE's supervision by consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.07 of the draft DCA).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$21.9 million.
Apart from drainage works, all cost estimates are net of taxes and duties as



- 16 -
the Government has agreed to exempt from duties all plant equipment, materials,
and services imported for this project. Sanitation and drainage works,
however, would be tendered in small enough contracts to permit Guinean state-
owned cooperative contractors, who can only obtain raw materials tax inclusive,
to offer bids on this basis. Taxes estimated at US$0.4 million have therefore
been included in the local cost of the drainage works component. Cost esti-
mates are based on early 1978 price levels and include physical contingencies
ranging from 8 percent to 15 percent and price contingencies ranging from 7
percent to 10 percent depending on the project component.
49.       The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$18.5 million and
would be financed by the proposed IDA credit of US$12.5 million and an ADB
loan of US$6.0 million under parallel financing. The ADB loan signed in
October 1978 would be at 7% for a term of 17 years and would cover the foreign
exchange costs of part of the equipment and civil works of the water supply
component while the IDA credit would finance the remaining equipment and civil
works for the water supply and sanitation, technical assistance, training and
studies. The local cost requirements of about US$3.4 million would be met by
a Government contribution from its equipment budget and DEG's internal cash
generation.
Project Preparation Facility
50.       To speed up project preparation the Government obtained in early
1978 an advance of US$270,000 under the Project Preparation Facility. The PPF
financed the following items:
(a) detailed design and bidding documents for the drainage
component;
(b) services of the commercial expert (para. 45) and the
training officer (para. 46) before arrival of the
operations team to be seconded to DEG;
(c)  an audit of DEG's 1976 and 1977 accounts and an analysis
of its accounting practices (para. 45); and
(d) detailed design, bidding documents, and site supervision
of housing and office space.
The PPF would be refunded from the proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit.
Project Implementation
51.       Most of the sanitation and drainage works provided by the project
would be executed by contractors under the supervision of the Project Unit.
The only exceptions would be the small pipe replacement and connection program
and the standpipe expansion program which would be designed and carried out
by DEG's own forces. Tender calls for most of the supply contracts would be
launched in early 1979 and for civil works contracts in Spring 1979. Construc-
tion of housing and office space for technical assistance and additional DEG



- 17 -
staff is scheduled to begin end-1978 and would be finished by March 1979 before
the arrival of the technical assistants. All construction and supply of water
and sewerage facilities would be completed by end-1983, the expected completion
date of the project.
52.       In view of the financial and operational constraints facing DEG, and
in view of the status of the water and sewerage sector in general, agreement
was reached at negotiations that the Government and DEG will carry out an
Improvement Plan aimed at alleviating these problems. This plan will be
carried out during project execution and is designed to improve institutional
and financial performance in the sector as a whole. As part of this Plan, DEG
will take a number of measures during 1979 to redress its organizational,
managerial, staffing and financial deficiencies. The technical assistance
described in paragraph 45 would help DEG implement these measures which would
include: (i) reorganization of DEG's administrative and organizational
structure; (ii) inventory of unregistered water supply connections and their
inclusion in metering and billing procedures; (iii) improvement in collection
of receivables so as to bring it by 1980 within 4 months of billing; (iv)
revaluation of assets; (v) adequate definition of internal planning and
budgetary control; (vi) review of insurance coverage of liability and of
losses of and damage to buildings and vehicles; (vii) submission to IDA of a
manpower development plan; and (viii) submission to the Government of proposals
for modifications to the contracts for water supply to ministries and other
Government agencies to reflect DEG's tariffs in effect on January 1, 1979
(Section 3.01 (c) of the draft DCA and annex to draft supplemental letter).
53.       Also as part of the Improvement Plan and in order to support and
supplement it, the Government will undertake the following actions: (i)
modify the lump sum contract for water supply by DEG to Government ministries
to reflect DEG's tariffs in effect on January 1, 1979; (ii) cause the munici-
palities in the Conakry area to provide sufficient funds in their budgets
to pay for standpipe consumption and sanitary blocks; (iii) enact revised
by-laws for DEG; and (iv) increase the expenditure limit in Sylis above which
a priori approval is needed when requested by DEG.
54.       In addition, Government's knowledge of the sector's finances will
be expanded through improvements in DEG's (i) planning and budgeting functions
through creation of a budget unit under the direct control of one of DEG's
managers, and (ii) financial accounting, through reviews by auditors (Section
4.02 of the draft DCA). In order to obtain a better basis for planning sector
borrowing and related debt service, DEG will also keep separate proforma
accounts for all debt - including the proposed IDA Credit - contracted on or
after January 1, 1978 by the Guinean Government for the financing of construc-
tion and installation of water supply and sewerage facilities in the area
under DEG's jurisdiction (Section 4.01(d) of the draft DCA).
55.       In addition, the Government has agreed to provide IDA a reasonable
opportunity to comment on a financing plan before undertaking additional
investments in the water and sanitation sector exceeding US$1 million per year
(Section 4.05 of the draft DCA). Furthermore, DEG will submit to IDA annual



- 18 -
operation and investment budgets, quarterly reports on its operations including
technical and financial monitoring indicators (Section 4.06 (a) of the draft
DCA), and audited financial statements within 6 months of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 of the draft DCA).
Special Account in Foreign Exchange
56.       The Project foreign costs include a wide variety of small items
(essentially spare parts and supplies) needed to replenish DEG's depleted
stocks to permit normal operations and maintenance.  In view of the country's
critical shortage of foreign exchange, both the Government and DEG would
have considerable difficulties financing these expenditures. To overcome
this problem, a special foreign exchange account (Sections 2.02 and 3.06
of the draft DCA) would be established by the Banque Guineenne du Commerce
Exterieur (BGCE) to which DEG would have access for the purchase of replace-
ment parts and supplies without passing through the present chain of Government
controls. The proposed system would function as follows: At the beginning of
each fiscal year, the Government will grant an import licence to DEG for a
lump sum amount sufficient to cover replenishment of its stock of spare parts
and supplies. BGCE, at DEG's request, will open letters of credit to DEG's
foreign suppliers within the limit of the amount of the licence. For the
first and second project years (1979, 1980), IDA and the Government will
each contribute US$300,000 to this account; for project year three (1981) the
Government alone will finance the account with a contribution of US$600,000
and for the years thereafter will grant DEG similar annual lump sum import
licences in appropriate amounts as needed. Quarterly financial reporting by
DEG will permit IDA to monitor the level of commitments against the account
as well as replenishment by the Government. It is expected that use of this
procedure during the project period would demonstrate to the Government the
improved efficiency which results from eliminating some of the unnecessary
bureaucratic and a priori controls that prevent not only DEG but other national
enterprises from carrying out normal maintenance of their installations.
Tariffs
57.       The water tariff was increased from 4 to 8 Sylis (US$0.40) per cubic
meter effective April 1, 1978. To alleviate the effects of this increase on
small consumers, the Government cancelled at the same time the fixed meter
rental and meter connection charges. The present tariff is expected to cover
DEG's operating expenses, including depreciation, during the project implemen-
tation period. The Government will be required to maintain the tariff at a
level adequate to cover all of DEG's cash operating expenditures plus depre-
ciation or debt service, whichever is higher (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft
DCA). In addition, in order to assist the Government in defining a tariff
policy compatible to the long-range financial viability of the water and
sewerage sector, the DEG will carry out by June 30, 1981 and in accord-
ance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a study of water tariffs,
including house connection charges (Section 4.04 (a) of the draft DCA). The
DEG will be aided in this task by the technical assistance described in
paragraph 45.



- 19 -
58.       The sewerage tariff is 1 Syli (US$0.05) per cubic meter of water
consumed for customers connected to the sewerage system. Once sewerage
operations become more important and separate cost accounting for these
operations are established by DEG, it will be necessary to determine whether
the present tariff is still adequate. Although no cost recovery mechanism
exists at present for drainage, studies financed by UNDP are underway to
determine possible means of cost recovery to finance the drainage program
that is being prepared (see paragraph 35).
Procurement
59.       Procurement of goods and construction services to be financed from
the Credit will be by International Competitive Bidding and in acccordance
with the Bank Group guidelines for procurement (except for force account works
worth US$600,000, para. 51). Contracts for equipment and vehicles of less
than Sylis 1 million (US$50,000) aggregating to not more than Sylis 10 million
(US$500,000) would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA. The items financed by ADB (the water supply component with
the exception of secondary pipelines and connection materials) will be procured
in accordance with ADB's guidelines.
Disbursements
60.       Disbursements from the Credit account would cover 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials (tJS$2.7 million), civil
works (US$3.2 million), and consulting services and technical assistance
(US$4.2 million). The allocation for consulting services and technical
assistance includes US$270,000 to refund the PPF advance (Schedule 1 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Economic and Social Justification
61.       As a result of the rehabilitation and expansion of water production,
transmission, and distribution facilities in Conakry, access to safe water is
expected to increase from 41% of the city's inhabitants to 64% by project com-
pletion in 1983. Standpipe service would be the principal means of achieving
this increase for a population which itself will grow from about 575,000
in 1978 to 725,500 in 1988 at an annual rate of 6%. The percentage of popula-
tion served by standpipes would nearly double from 18% 1978 to 34% in 1982.
About 200,000 people would gain access to service by house connections or from
standpipes as a consequence of the project.
62.       Since the benefits of the water supply component of this project
cannot be separated from those to be derived from subsequent water supply
projects to be executed as part of the 1978-88 investment program, the
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) has therefore been calculated on the
entire water supply portion of the investment program. This rate is about 16
percent using revenues from sales valued at the current tariff of 8 Sylis per
cubic meter as a proxy for benefits and calculating costs using the official



- 20 -
exchange rate (20 Sylis/US$1). If the foreign exchange component of the costs
is calculated on the basis of a shadow exchange rate 1.75 times the official
rate (35 Sylis/US$1), the IERR is about 7 percent. The IERR as calculated
does not represent the full economic return on the investment since it does
not include unquantif!able health benefits that can be expected.
63.       The management and operations of DEG are expected to improve
significantly as a result of the technical assistance and training components
of the project, enabling DEG not only to expand service in Conakry but also
in secondary centers.
64.       The sanitation component of the project, which would be concentrated
in the most densely populated areas of Conakry, would lead to an immediate
improvement in sanitary conditions by removing both storm water and a portion
of waste water that at present stagnate and provide breeding grounds for
malaria mosquitoes and cause a number of waterborne diseases.
Risks
65.       There are no significant technical risks associated with the physical
components of the project given the well defined nature of the works. The in-
stitutional and manpower improvement objectives which condition the realization
of the project benefits are reasonable and the probability of achieving them
is improved through the technical assistance and training components. The
availability of foreign exchange essential for DEG's day-to-day operation
would be assured through the establishment of the special account referred to
in para. 56.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 43 to 47 and 52 to 57 and in Section
III Annex III of this report. As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Development Credit the Borrower should: (a) fulfill the conditions of disburse-
ment of the ADB Loan; (b) employ the consultants, experts, and technicians
referred to in paras. 43, 45, 46; and (c) open the special account in BGCE in
the name of DEG (para 56).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that Executive Directors approve the proposed Development
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
December 5, 1978



- 22 -
Annex 1
TARLR 3A                                                 Page  1
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICAT0RS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
GUINEA                                                  /.
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            246.0                                                   SAME        SAME     NEUT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      71.7                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0       140.0    230.0             223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      65.0        98.0      92.0             86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATIGN. MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         3.7         4.0       4.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  9.6        15.9      19.5             13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       15.0        16.0      20.0             18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     53.0        56.0      67.0             53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRs.                         42.1        42.5      43.1             44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRs.                         55.1        54.7      54.0            52.7        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.8         2.8       2.9              2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         0.8       2.7              2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              9.0         8.1       7.1              5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     47.4        47.3      44.6             46.9       44.3        42.Z
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     30.4        26.4      22.9             20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5 /1R    3.1        3.1              3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..        ..              2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            102.2       100.0      94.2             94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.0 /h     90.0      84.0             90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          41.0  h     44.0      42.7             55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        29.0 L      *.             17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     52.0          ..        ..               ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5        38.5      41.0             43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          216.0  f       ..        ..            138.4      102.7        82.5
'rF5S5 TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                               ..          ..      14.0             22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        68.0      69.o             66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        13.0        ..             23.9       I6.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        70.0         ..            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..         2.0        ..             14.2        3.4        25.4
POPIULATION PER PHYSICIAN        48000.0     31090.0   27890.0          21757.5    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3620.0      5000.0    3600.0 L         3473.8     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           3270.0       980.0 /k  740.0 /k11       645.4     1157.6       786.5
U'RBAN                           240.0       280.0        ..            172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                           2640.0      1020.0        ..           1292.6     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        16.0         *.            19.2       19.5         19.2
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEPOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              5.0        4.8
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..             4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..
URkBAN                              ..          ..         ..              ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..
RURA.                               ..           ..        ..              ..         8.7        10.3



- 23-                                                  Annex 1
TABLE 3A                                                    Page  2
GUINEA - EOCIAL IfDICASORS DLATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROLPS (ADJUSrED AVERAGES
GUINEA                                                   8
- MOST RECENT ESTIFATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT RIGHER
MOST RECENS     GEOGRAPHIC    IS-07E        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATF /b       REGION Ic   GROUP  d    GROBP /e
IDUCATION
ADJUSTED E!ROLLKENT RATIOS
PRIMAARY:    TOTAL                 30.0        33.0       28.0             52.1       62.9         75.8
FE1ALE               16.0         21.0                       37.6        45.9        67.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   2.0        13.0       14.0              8.0       14.4         17.1
FEKALE                0.4          5.0         ..             5.0         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 22.0          3.4         ..              7.2        6.6          7.4
NPUIL-TEACHER IATIO
PR LMARY                           66.0        36.0         ..             43.2       38.5         34.3
SEGONDARY                          26.0        23.0         ..            22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RWTE (PERCENT)         7.0 /m        ..         *             20.3       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         2.0        2.0              3.9        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         13.0        23.0       24.0            40.1        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..         ..             2.2         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUtLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.2          1.0       1.0              3.9        6.0         16.3
CINTA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        ..              1.2        1.4          1.6
IPL0YMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1400.0      1900.0    2100.0
FEIALE (PERCENT)                   40.3        40.3       40.1             32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0        84.7       84.1             73.3       60.7         54.1
IIUISTRT (PERCENT)                  6.1         8.5         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOL                                  49.6        47.7       46.1             42.0       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 59.5         57.4      55.8             54.8       53.3         50.3
P1EALE                               39.9        38.1       36.6             27.3       19.6         20.9
CDoMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1          1.2       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIB1rTIO0
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
IGlHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             25.7       20.3         19.5
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..             55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..              5.8        5.7          5.9
t.O'EST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .           ..        ..             14.5      lO.           ;
POVERtTY TARGET GROUPS
ETIMATED ABSOLOTE POVERTY INCOME
lEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
IIRBAN                               ..           ..        ..            108.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                     .          ..           ..        ..             74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME                                                        -
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      52.0            124.4      100.8        143.7
tURAL                                ..           ..      50.0             59.6       42.0        87.3
3F7lMUArD POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
1UEX    LEVEL (PERCENT)
H3.BAN                               ..           ..      33.0             26.8       46.0         22.9
tONAL                                ..           ..        ..             47.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geo  tric neaus. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
jb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
&ad 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate. between 1973 and 1977.
Lc  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
(8281-550 per capita. 1976);  jf  1955;   /l  AfricanPopulatioo only;   ft  1961-65 average;
Li  1964-66; Li  Includilg midwives;   Ik  Government hospitals only;   L1  1972;  /n  Prior to 1965.
September. 1978



-24 -                                                                        Annex 1
Page 3
DEFINITIO'S Ot OSOlIL IND7CATORS
Notea: Although cho data are drawn frcm sources generally judged the most authoritative end reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be inter-
nationally comparable because of the lack of standardiIed definitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the dat. The date are, nonetheless,
uaeftl to deacribe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characteri.e certain major differences between countries.
The adiusted group aver-ges for each indicator are population-xeighted georaetric means, excludiog the extreme values of the indicator and the mast
populated country in each group.  Cverage of co'ntries among tho indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group avergeoS for Capital Surplus Oil Etporters umd indicators of access tc water and excreta disposat, housing, income distribution and poverty arc
sfiple pupulation-weighted geonetric means without the exclusion of eutreme valu s.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. k)                                                              Popolation per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bads
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and ra-
or permanently for crops, pauturce, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lii  fallow                                                                            at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
car  are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and madi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
calculated by same converuion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               istant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation asd
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(eoal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal  lectricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average siae of husuehold (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals  hob  share living quarters
Total Popsiatitn, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available                   and their main  eals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nus-
of data among countries.                                                               her of persons per roam in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, reapectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per oq  hm  agricul ure land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, snd rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), warking-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year populaticn                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratioe
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-7.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of prinary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 end five-yoar everage euding in 1971 for most recent estimate                     above the official school age.
Crude  death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tics requires at leaat four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Croas reoroduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal ceproductive period if she experiences present age-                      oxcluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1971.                                                                       clde technical, ind-strial, or oeher programs which operate independently
Pamily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Ancual number of                       or as departments of  secondary inatitutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondarv - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planing - user  (percent of married women) - Percentage of                        sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult litera    rats (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
de-ices to all married women in sane age group                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Inde- of food Production per capita (1971-100) - Index nueber of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars compriase  otor carc
capita annual production of all food conmodities.                                   seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita  supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed free              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies  available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; eacludes unlicensed
enports, and changes in stock.  Not supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and lasses in distribution.   Re-               effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable asin. most countries
quirenents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coma-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets wan in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grums per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                ction devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimun allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week,
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold daring the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
21 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, prop.oed by                   units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from aninal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derived from anim:als and pulses in grams per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Eoano=ically active persona, including armed
Child (ages 1-i) mortality rare (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but axcluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALrH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             female labor force as percentages of their reapective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                These are ILOIs adjusted participation rates reflecting asge-ses
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                  structure of the population, dnd long time trend
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Econo=ic dependency ratio - Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over to
u_o-ta=oinated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor force in ago gr-up of 15-64 yers.
and sanitary wells) us percentage- of their respective papulatious.
In on urban area a public fountain or standposc located not more                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
thou 200 meters from a house may be considered as being withic rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) re--iv-d by richest 5
sonable access of chat house.   In  rural areas reasonable access would               percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or =enbers of the household do not have to                   of huhlds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the fasily's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUiPS
Access st excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban. and               Estimated absolute povecty iucene level (UE$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                    Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Ecreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-fnod requireaents is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordable,
treatnent, of human ecreoCa and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Estimated relative poverty income level (US0   per capita) - urban and rural -
or tho -sa   of pit privies and similar installations.                                Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                   per capita personal income of rho coastry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at suivorsity level.                    Estiated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Pupalation Per nurling Person - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing sale and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistact nures.
Economic and Social Data Division
Econo=ic Analysis and Projections Department



- 25 -
ANlIIEXI
PageT4
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWIJH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1975-76           1976-77   1977-85 PROJEC=TD
ON? at Market Prices          1,076.0      100.0                         2.3               5.6           9.0
Gross Domestic Investment        31.5        2.9                       -61.0               4.8          23.4
Gross National Saving            29.1        2.7                       -52.4              51.6          23.4
Current Account Balance         -7.3         o.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           311.9       29.0                         5.1               8.2          14.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          264.3        24.6                         1.5              0.0           17.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added
US$ Mln.      1
Agriculture                    521       46
Industry and Mining            252       23
Services                       128       12
Unallocated                    210       19
GDP AT FACTOR COST            1,111      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
-  (Sylis Billion)-           --  % of GDP
1 75           1976         1977                  1           1_97       1977
Current Receipts                    3.87         T.98         7.27                  19.0        38.9       30.5
Current Expenditure                2.78          6.951        3.58                  13.6        31.7      15.0
Current Surplus                    1.09                       3.6995T 547.2                               15.5
Capital Expenditures               1.42           .56          .63                   7.0         2.7        2.6
External Assistance (net)            .76          .37           .28                  3.7         1.8        1.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1975          1976        1977
(billion Sylis outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      9.87         8.6
Bank credit to Public Sector              10.80        14.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector              1.10         1.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Honey and Quasi Money as % of GDP         48.4         42.0
General Price Index                      100.0         98.4         108.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        *           -1.6          +9.9
Bank credit to Public Sector 2/                        32.7
Bank credit to Private Sector              0            0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
U/    In 1975 and 1976 the Government realized a sizeable budget surplus in Sylis which
was returned to the Central Bank for sterilization.
2/    The sharp increase in credit to the public sector was caused by the transfer
of Government claims on the public sector to the banking system.
not avaiLable
not applicable



26 -
AITEX I
Page 5
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TRUADE PrDNTs AND CAPITAL FLOW5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1075-77)
1975     1976      197 T                                                us  Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         229.6    254.2    311.9                               Bauxite             177.4       67.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         200.3    242.1    264.3                              Alumina               77.1       29.1
Resource Gap (deficit * -)    29.3       12.1     47.6
Interest Payments (net)        26.6      21.1      4.9
Workers' Remittances
Other Factor Payments (net)  38.0        38.0      50.0
Net Transfers                                                          All other commodities               9 9        3-7
Balance on Current Account   -5 3    -7 0          -73                      Total                       264.4      100.3
Direct Foreign Investment                                           EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               73.3      18.6     30.3                                                           US $ Mln
Amortization                25.9      20.5     23.0
Subtotal                    47.4    -49.0       7.3                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               871.5
Capital Grants                  3.3                                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  0
Other Capital (net)            13.6      33.5                         Total outstanding & Disbursed               S71T7
Other items n.e.i             -25.4        .         .                                           I/
Increase in Reserves (+)       -3.6    -15.5       0                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197v
9 %
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                       7.5       7.6      8.1
of which: Petroleum
Exports
of which:  Petroleum          ,                  .BRD/IDA LENDING, ( end 1977   ) (Million US S):
RATE OF EXCHANGE  2/                                                                                   IBRO       IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed             uu.;        1.2
Undisbursed                                    19 8
Sy $ 1.00     20.                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       66.1       21.0
S-yli 1.OO - US $0.05 
I/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services. This figure
represents the ratio of the debt service actually paid to exports.
21  The Syli is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.7, i.e. 20.5 Syli = US$1 (end-T7).  An
average accounting rate of US$1 5 20 Syli is used in this report
,   not available
. not applicable
June   , 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                    Amount (US$ million)-
Credit Number  Year       Borrower        Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Two loans have been fully disbursed                          73.5
569-GUI       1975     Republic of    Pineapple                   7.0      3.2
Guinea          Development
596-GUI       1976     Republic of    First Highway              14.0       3.5
Guinea
849-GUI 2/   1978      Republic of    First Education             8.0       8.0
Guinea
TOTAL                                             73.5  29.0    1J.7
of which has been repaid                      12.4   0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                             61.1  29.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                  0.0  14.7      14.7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
Guinea is not a member of IFC.
C.   Projects in Execution 3/
Cr. 569-GUI   Pineapple Development Project:  US$7.0 million Credit of July 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project consists of establishing an irrigated pineapple estate
and of providing pineapple growers in its vicinity with supporting services.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Not yet effective.
3/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
Due to the poor performance of the contractor, irrigation works were delayed
by one year but the use of provisional irrigation facilities minimized the
impact of such delays on planting and production targets. Total production
in 1977/78 exceeded 1,100 tons of which 580 tons were exported fresh to Paris
at premium prices. Measures are being taken to better adapt the quality of
this output to the marketing standards of importers and thus increase exports.
Works are now completed and irrigation started in November 1978. Bids for the
second phase network, which will double the total plantation area to 420
hectares, are being evaluated and irrigation works will start in January 1979
as scheduled at Appraisal. Current cost estimates indicate a possible short-
fall of about US$300,000 for financing of foreign exchange costs to complete
the project as planned. We have advised Government and a decision is expected
from them shortly.
Cr. 596-GUI   First Highway Project; US$14.0 million Credit of December 24,
1975; Effectiveness Date: March 19, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Progress on the First Highway Project, a road rehabilitation and
maintenance program covering 2,500 km of high-priority roads, is satisfactory
although execution was delayed by about one year due to slow tendering and
bidding. Training of mechanics and equipment operators is progressing well
and the new management measures introduced by the Ministry of Public Works
with the help of consultants are effectively controlling the project's
financial, equipment and human resources. A second phase rehabilitation
and maintenance program, prepared with good collaboration between Government
staff and their expatriate advisors, was recently appraised.
Cr. 849-GUI   First Education Project; US$8.0 million Credit of September 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at helping alleviate the country's shortage of
skilled workers by improving and expanding technical training programs, and
at strengthening the country's educational planning and project implementa-
tion capacities.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification Mission: August and November 1977
(b) Project Preparation Agency: Ministry of Industry and Energy
African Development Bank
Consultants financed by PPF advance
(c) Appraisal Mission: January 1978
(d) Negotiations: November 1978
(c) Planned Effectiveness: March 1979
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
PPF
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a)   as a Condition of Effectiveness, recruit the 5 water supply experts,
1 training officer and 3 Project Unit technical assistants (para. 45,
46, and 43, respectively);
(b) as a Condition of Effectiveness, set up a foreign exchange special
account with BGCE (para. 56);
(c) as a Condition of Effectiveness, fulfill the conditions of disburse-
ment of the ADB loan (para. 67);
(d) grant to DEG at the beginning of each of the years 1979 through
1981, a global license for a lump sum amount to cover replenish-
ment of its stock of spare parts and supplies (para. 56);
(e) consult with IDA on a financing plan before undertaking additional
investments in the water and sanitation sector exceeding US$1
million per year (para. 55);
(f) maintain the water tariff at least at the present level until
the tariff study is completed and appropriate rate of return targets
based on revalued net fixed assets in operation can be established
(para. 57);
DEG would:
(g) submit to IDA annual operations and investment budgets (para. 55);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(h) submit to IDA quarterly reports on its operations including tech-
nical and financial monitoring indicators (para. 55);
(i) submit to IDA audited financial statements within 6 months of each
fiscal year (para. 55);
(j)  keep separate proforma accounts for foreign borrowing contracted
after 1977 (para. 54);



IBRD 13734
AWRieAjet                                                                                                                         4 40  r LOME Etc  ,'  ,;  ! 
(   Proposed In KOr  Mining                                  4     00   7oBAsX ICT
Rive/ ,rs                                                       N          i                     k           , r  m% .
---                                                                                    # g X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orml
A T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 'Vrl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~      V~   o
i4 \                                                                              >' g _ mv -//5'1 \; <grmdidnd k *-; 
/V/F/5 > ,+ +,2- X X . - ' % >yX j ( '' . 5 tA,A.~~~~~~~~E'd  t
OCEAN        e        >  \8v.<<  /%$Jf ) o, ,r  
WATER SYSTEMS:-..-r~  (\/(e    r, tt%J
Uncder Mining Monogement\ > r     <    - -  - J i 
Under DEG Mornagement            an           y      R-'                          IW                '   a>.0*.,f, ;0
I For Study under ProposedPoet (Project                                                                                               + t
*Above 5,000  *t;\ bDse  
Miin Projec2,000 IF RST WATE R SU PPLY AN D -eA<o7
Forest                         'tt-,,,-tSANITATION PROJECT                          -     -     f         8y'i
F:7;) ~~~~~~~LlvsOCk rJc  -t,ATION OF URBAN WATER SYSTEMS * 
(D  Proposed Ba-xte Mining                                                      \' '''J''t'  i..........................>....
-80    Proposed Iron Ore Mining       o,                  20    MIL  E 80 t - rE<strH
=First Category Roods g    
RailroadsN  -  Frr' L 
--International Boundaries  pqnb/IWI/S!*siDMMoIrMM  l'C  Atar'' '
< .O UBM Ow>I 1MaMR.MoteM =e t..  tE a/  ^sd..  :- : 4 htW:      sD   *,sEs   .;          






______________________ ______________________ ______________________IBRD-1 3735
GUINEA
_ ~ ->              $ tm,    = ____   uL /                                                                                   - th^FIRSTWATERSUPPLYANDSANITATIONPROJECT                                                                                                                       GUINEA
I-;                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT COMPONENTS
EXISTINGMAIN WATERSUFsLYFACIL[TIES                                                                                                                                      I .E
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,       . fl .... h sV....05 
.   RATO;;I$_   __   ;   /   '\  ................... 1|| ....... 0 \ dQ U@8f tg d 0t th...... ....
., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                                                                         -,- -.---'   F'   ---_    ---I' .       -  .h'><.  .       
O'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
T-Y  - ~ ~ ~   ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        ~                  ---7                             _
DISInYTIIOIN M- NS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _
__ _ |i1 j1Df  ETI NFT IR                                               Tl 1<1 RE1 P5TL  FP AT . RAWIOD                                                                                                                                                                       _
- fAT.N . .iL TY -- -TROL Da TR[A-NNT             _;_  D15TnlrT LrMITS                                                                                                                                                          /                  -   -                    ..-              - -
-f_lOAs                                                         OOSOAOFB  K1
*  I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ T E



