CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 870 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(First Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE ' S
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 12, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 870 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1979, between REVOLUTIONARY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has contracted from the African Development
Bank (hereinafter called ADB) a loan (hereinafter called the ADB
Loan) in an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement) entered into
between the Borrower and ADB on October 21, 1978;
(C) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the prepa-
ration of the Project, the Association pursuant to an exchange
of letters between the Borrower and the Association, dated Novem-
ber 15, 1977, February 24,1978, May 24, 1978 and June 9, 1978,
respectively, has granted to the Borrower an advance (hereinafter
called the Advance) in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred seventy thousand dollars ($270,000); and
(D) the Association is prepared to refund the Advance out of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DEG" means Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau
de Guin6e, an "Entreprise d'Etat" established and operating
pursuant to Ordonnance No. 1 of January 1, 1961, Decree No. 196 of
July 24, 1972, and Decree No. 175 of June 27, 1960 of the
Borrower;
(b) "RAC" means the R6gion Administrative de Conakry;
(c) "Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement;
(d) "Syli" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(e) "Special Account" means the account opened by the
Borrower in its Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur for the
purpose of the provisions of Sections 2.02 and 3.06 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand dollars
($12,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Association
shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself, on


﻿-3-
behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the accrued
service charges and other charges, if any, thereon, of the
Advance. Any amount of the Advance remaining unwithdrawn shall
automatically be cancelled on the same date.
(c) The Borrower shall open and maintain the Special Account
in the Banque Guin&enne du Commerce Exterieur in the name of DEG
and shall cause the Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur to
credit and debit for the account of DEG the Special Account in
accordance with the following provisions:
(i) there shall be credited to the Special Account:
(A)   such amounts as shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
by the Association pursuant to paragraph (d) of
this Section; and (B)    such amounts as shall be
deposited by the Borrower in the Special Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f) of
this Section; and
(ii) amounts deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (c) of this
Section shall be used only to make payments for
expenditures on account of the replenishment of the
stock of chemicals and spare parts under Part C (i)
of the Project which are eligible for withdrawal
from the Credit Account.
(d) The Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account amounts in foreign currency in
accordance with the following provisions:
(i) an initial amount not exceeding $300,000 equivalent
promptly after the Effective Date; and
(ii) a final amount not exceeding $300,000 equivalent at
the beginning of 1980 or at such time as the
Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
acceptable to the Association that it has disbursed
the funds to be provided by it for the year 1979
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, whichever is later.


﻿(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no further deposit
shall be made by the Association into the Special Account and
no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account when the
total amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Acccunt pur-
suant to paragraph (d) of this Section, together with the amount
of any special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, all on account of the
replenishment of the stock of chemicals and spare parts under Part
C (i) of the Project, shall have reached in the aggregate the
equivalent of $600,000.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that payments
have been made by DEG out of the Special Account for expenditures
not eligible for withdrawal from the Credit Account or not eligi-
ble for financing through the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, upon notice from the Association, deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Asscciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing January 1, 1989, and ending July 1, 2028,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to 1, one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, D
and E of the Project through the Project Unit and shall cause DEG
to carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the generality of
the provisions of the preceding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower undertakes to provide in each of its annual budgets
for appropriations and authorizations for expenditures on account
of the Project during each of the years to which such budget shall
apply in such amounts as shall be required to meet expenditures
for the Project as they occur. Such amounts shall be made avail-
able as advances to the Project Unit on a quarterly basis through
an account at Credit National in the name of the Project Unit.
(c) The Borrower shall, and shall cause DEG to, review with
the Association by June 30 and December 31 in each year their
respective performances with respect to the carrying out of the
improvement plan referred to under Part C (vi) of the Project and
shall, promptly after each of such reviews has taken place, take
all such corrective action as may be reasonably requested by the
Association to meet the objectives of such plan.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within its
Ministry of Energy and Industry a Project Unit with such powers
and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Association
and shall cause such unit to operate until the completion of the
Project under the supervision of a project director whose experi-
ence and qualifications shall be satisfactory to the Association,
assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers,
and the Borrower shall provide said unit, promptly as needed, with
all such funds, facilities, services, staff and other resources as
may be needed to carry out its responsiblities in a timely and
efficient manner.
(b) In order to assist the Project Unit in the carrying
out of its responsibilities, the Borrower shall employ an engineer
acting as technical adviser to the Project Director, and two civil


﻿- 6 -
works technicians, all with qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all such measures
satisfactory to the Association as may be required or appropriate
to improve sanitation conditions in, and to prevent pollution in,
the Conakry area. Such measures shall include inter alia: (i)
sealing off of private wells in areas with reasonable access
to piped water by the Borrower's Service National de Prevention
et des Brigades Sanitaires in its Ministry of Health; and (ii)
enactment and subsequent enforcement of appropriate legislation to
protect the groundwater sources used for public water supplies.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause RAC:
(i) to maintain qualified and experienced staff in
adequate numbers for the operation of its drainage
maintenance facilities and for the provision of its
drainage maintenance services;
(ii) to set up and thereafter maintain accounts and
records for its drainage operations adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of RAC in respect thereof; and
(iii) to operate and maintain its equipment and property
(including without limitation the sanitary blocks
referred to in Part B (vi) of the Project) and
promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with appropriate engineering
and public utility practices.
(b) The Borrower shall submit, by November 30 of each year,
to the Association the annual budget of RAC in respect of the
following year for the Association's information and comments and
shall provide to RAC all funds, facilities and services (including
staff) required to enable RAC to carry out its drainage mainte-
nance responsibilities.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall by June 30, 1979, or
such other date as th, Association may agree, submit to the
Association for its review and comments a feasibility study on the
rehabilitation or replacement of the Grandes Chutes dam located


﻿- 7 -
about 80 km Northeast of Conakry on the Samou River and shall
thereafter make all repairs to, and undertake all such other works
as may be required to rehabilitate such dam in a manner satisfac-
tory to the Association, and the Borrower shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of
the preceding paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) with the assistance of engineering consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, cause the Grandes Chutes
dam and its related waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks and
their appurtenant structures to be periodically inspected, at
interval6 of not less than one year and in accordance with
appropriate engineering practice, in order to determine whether
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures and
earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operation of such structures and earthworks which may
endanger the safety of such structures and earthworks, the first
of such inspections to start in June 1980; (ii) submit, promptly
after each such inspection, to the Association the conclusion of
such supervision and inspection authorities; (iii) make, promptly
after each such inspection, all necessary repairs of such struc-
tures and earthworks; and (iv) make all necessary modifications
in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation
of such structures and earthworks, all to be in accordance with
appropriate engineering practice and in accordance with the
recommendations of the said engineering consultants.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) grant to DEG, at the beginning of each of the years
1979 through 1981, a global license for the impor-
tation of chemicals and spare parts under Part C
(i) of the Project during such year in such amounts
as hereinafter set forth; and
(ii) cause the Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
to open, upon DEG's request, letters of credit in
favor of DEG's suppliers of chemicals and spare
parts under Part C (i) of the Project, utilizing
the funds deposited by the Association in the
Special Account and the funds authorized by the
global license.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The amounts authorized by the global license shall be
not less than $300,000 for the year 1979, $300,000 for the year
1980 and $600,000 for the year 1981 or the equivalent in other
foreign currency of such amounts.
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ by
September 30, 1979 or such other date as the Association may agree
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) In order to obtain assistance in carrying
out Part C (iii) and (iv) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ and second to DEG six experts (a technical adviser to DEG's
management, a distribution engineer, a water repair and mechanics
technician, an electro-technician, a water treatment technician
and a training officer) whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and to the Association.
(b) In order to obtain assistance, and as required for, in
the carrying out of Part C (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause DEG to employ from time to time at regular intervals accept-
able to the Association an expert whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish co the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿- 9 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall furnish or cause
DEG to furnish to the Association within forty-five calendar days
after each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the pro-
gress of the Project during such quarter; and (iv) shall furnish
or cause DEG to furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿- 10 -
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies (including but without limitation
DEG) of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain or cause to
be established and maintained within the Project Unit, separate
accounts in its records, to be used exclusively for the Project
and shall register in such accounts all receipts and payments for
or in connection with the Project, in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied.
(c) The Borrower shall retain within the Project Unit, until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
(d) Without limitation to the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause DEG to maintain: (i) pro- forma separate accounts on its
books of such scope and in such detail as the Association may
reasonably request recording in a manner satisfactory to the
Association debt and debt service related to such debt, contracted
on or after January 1, 1978 by the Borrower for the financing of
the construction and installation of water supply and sewerage
facilities in the area of jurisdiction of DEG. For the purposes of
the foregoing, the proceeds of the Credit used on account of
expenditures for water supply investments will appear on such
accounts as a debt of DEG carrying an annual rate of interest of
7% and maturing 25 years after the date of this Agreement
including a grace period of five years; and (ii) starting on
January 1, 1980, or such other date as the Association may agree,
accounts showing separately sewerage investments of the Borrower
in the area of jurisdiction of DEG and operations and maintenance
expenditures of DEG in respect of its sewerage operations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a), (b) and (d) of this Agreement,


﻿- 11 -
the Special Account, and DEG's accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of DEG's financial statement for such year as so audited,
and (B) a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing said accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DEG to take out and
ma1-cain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association with the
assistance of the experts referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement by June 30, 1981 or such other date as the Association
may agree, a study of water tariffs, including house connection
charges, such study to be of such scope and in such detail as the
Association may reasonably request. Promptly after said study's
completion, the Borrower shall submit to the Association its
recommendations for review and promptly thereafter, but in any
event no later than January 1, 1982 or such other date as the
Association may agree, the Borrower shall implement the recommen-
dations of such study, including tariff adjustments if any, with
such modifications as the Association may reasonably request and
thereafter shall from time to time adjust DEG's tariffs or cause
DEG to adjust its tariffs all in accordance with the recommenda-
tions of said study as so modified.
(b) Until the completion of the study referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section and until a revaluation of DEG's assets


﻿- 12 -
under the improvement plan referred to under Part C (vi) of
the Project have been completed, the Borrower shall maintain or
cause DEC to maintain DEG's tariffs at a level no lower than the
level of tariffs in effect on April 1, 1978 and without limitation
to the foregoing shall take or cause DEG to take all such measures
as may be required (including adjustment of DEG's tariffs) to
enable DEG to produce revenue sufficient to cover in each year all
of DEG's operating expenditures and the higher of depreciation and
annual debt service requirements all related to the assets oper-
ated by DEG.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make, and shall not
allow DEG to make, in any one year investments or commitments for
investments on account of water supply and sewerage facilities
costing an aggregate of $1,000,000 equivalent or more, other than
those included in the Project, unless the Borrower has established
a financing plan to cover each of such expenditures and afforded
the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause DEG to submit to
the Association for its information and comments: (i) one month
before the beginning of each fiscal year, starting with the fiscal
year 1980, its approved operating and investment budgets for such
fiscal year; and (ii) not later than 60 days after the end of each
calendar quarter a quarterly report including technical and
financial monitoring indicators relating to its operations during
such quarter; all of such budgets and reports to be of such scope
and in such detail as the Association may reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to make available, as and when
needed, all such funds as may be necessary to meet the require-
ments of the investment program of the water and sanitation sector
not funded from other resources.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause DEG:
(a) to manage its affairs and conduct its business in an
efficient manner under qualified and experienced management
assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers
and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial
and public utility practices; and
(b) to operate and maintain its equipment and property and
promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility prac-
tices.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.08. The Borrower undertakes to submit to the share-
holders of Societe FRIGUIA the findings and recommendations
of the market study included in Part D (c) of the Project for
purposes of a possible pre-feasibility study.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Borrower has failed to obtain by December 31, 1979
foreign exchange financing required for the rehabilitation or
replacement of the Grandes Chutes dam referred to in Section 3.05
of this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the ADB Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
ADB Loan Agreement, or
(B) the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(c) Ordonnance No. 1 of January 1, 19U1, Decree No. 196 of
July 24, 1972 and Decree No. 175 of June 27, 1960 of the Borrower
or any provision thereof have been amended, abrogated, waived or
suspended in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 14 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraphs (b) (i) (B) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the conditions of disbursement of the ADB Loan have
been fulfilled subject only to the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment;
(b) the engineer and the two civil works technicians
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement and the six
experts referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement have
been employed; and
(c) the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement has been opened.
Section 6.02. The date April 12, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-
five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Industry and Energy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 15 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Industry and Energy
Conakry
Guinea
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINECOF                            652 MINECOF
for MIE                            Conakry
Conakry
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By Is/ Ibrahima Camara
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                 1,825,000        100% of foreign
materials for                                 expenditures
water supply
(2) Chemicals and                   600,000        100% of foreign
spare parts                                   expenditures
under Part C (i)
of the Project
(3) Civil works
(i)   Water supply           1,547,000        63%
(ii) Sanitation              1,370,000        69%
(iii) Buildings                292,000        89%
(4) Consulting ser-               3,920,000        100%
vices and tech-
nical assistance
(5) Training material              295,000         100%
and education
(6) Refunding of the               270,000         100%
Advance
(7) Unallocated                   2,381,000
TOTAL        12,500,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
3CHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first part of the Borrower's plan to
meet the long-term requirements for water supply and drainage of
Conakry and has the following objectives:
(i) to provide additional production capacity in the
vicinity of Conakry and to offer greater reliabil-
ity to the water system, now dependent on a single
lengthy transmission pipe;
(ii) to increase the transmission performance of the
Yessoulou gravity pipe with a current delivery
capacity of about 27,000 cubic meters daily;
(iii) to improve the performance of the trunk distribu-
tion system and extend the distribution network and
water supply services to a larger segment of the
Conakry population;
(iv) to improve and strengthen the technical and finan-
cial capabilities of DEG for both the project area
and the secondary centers which it takes over;
(v) to rehabilitate and expand the Conakry drainage
works and restore the technical and administrative
capability of RAC's technical services respon-
sible for the maintenance of the drainage network;
and
(vi) to prepare through appropriate studies and assis-
tance: (a) a long term development plan of the
water supply and sanitation for the whole of
Guinea, in line with targets proposed by the United
Nations International Drinking Water and Sanitation
Decade; (b) the development of water supply and
sanitation schemes for urban centers; and (c) a
policy to reduce dependency of Guinea on imported
water treatment chemicals and small diameter
pipes.


﻿- 19 -
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Water Supply
(i) Drilling of seven boreholes in the Bassia and
Kakimbon areas; in addition to an existing bore-
hole, three of these boreholes expected to yield
about 150 1/s are to be located in the Bassia area
and are to be equipped under the Project and
connected to the distribution network; the other
four are to be equipped and connected to the system
in a later phase;
(ii) Installation of a booster station with pumps and a
1.8 km long raw water transmission pipeline of
400 mm diameter to the Kaloum treatment plant and
storage site;
(iii) Construction of a treatment facility (chlorination'3
pH adjustment) and of a storage reservoir of 5,000m
at the Kaloum site;
3
(iv) Construction of a 5,000m    reservoir next to the
existing Bellevue reservoir;
(v) Purchase and installation of booster purmps at
Yessoulou totalling 500 1/s to boost the transmit-
ting capacity of the transmission pipe from its
gravity capacity of 330 1/s and to set it in line
with the existing treatment capacity of about
500 1/s;
(vi) Rehabilitation of the existing pretreatment plant
at the Grand Chutes dam and of raw water and
treated water transmission pipelines from Yessoulou
and Kakoulima to Conakry by replacing lengths of
pipes, blow off, air relief and sector valves;
(vii) Supply and laying of about 7.3 km of trunk distri-
bution main (0.7 km of 700 mm diameter, 2.7 km of
600 mm diameter, 1.9 km of 500 mm diameter and 2 km
of 400 mm and smaller diameters) along distribution
routes close to the reservoirs of Bellevue and
Kaloum;


﻿- 20 -
(viii) Supply and laying of about 100 km of distribution
pipes (100 to 60 mm diameter): (a) to extend the
distribution network in areas with insufficient
network density (areas of Kolea, Boussoura, Madina,
Dixinn, Aviation and Ratoma), and (b) to replace
existing old and encrusted pipes in the Conakry
I area;
(ix) Installation of some 160 standpipes and associated
distribution pipework in high density areas and at
the peripheral extent of the network;
(x) Supply of about 4,500 water meters and material
for 4,000 new connections;
(xi) Construction and equipping of offices and training
space at DEG headquarters and of houses at DEG's
facilities at Aviation and Yessoulou to cater for
increased staff and the expatriate assistance;
and
(xii) Procurement of miscellaneous equipment such as
compressors, office equipment and vehicles (vans,
trucks, bicycles) to assist DEG in its day to day
operations and work by force account and various
items for rehabilitating the meter repair and
mechanic workshops.
Part B:   Drainage and Sanitation
(i) Clearing, rehabilitating and cleaning drainage
ditches;
(ii) Backfilling and protecting zones subject to contin-
uous flooding and inundation;
(iii) Converting and extending the existing system of
unlined ditches to concrete drainage canals in
the Madina, Boussoura, and Kolea districts of
Conakry of high density population;
(iv) Providing transport and equipment to RAC's tech-
nical services to improve the maintenance of the
drainage network;


﻿- 21 -
(v) Purchasing supplementary supplies of chemicals
and small vehicles to strengthen the capability of
the Service National de Prevention et des Brigades
Sanitaires of the Ministry of Health for well
inspection and disinfection; and
(vi) Constructing about ten sanitary blocks consisting
of the basic water facilities for drinking, washing
and cleansing purposes in areas where people cannot
afford these facilities in their homes.
Part C:   Strengthening of DEG
(i) Replenishment of the stock of spare parts and
chemicals required for DEG's operations;
(ii) A program of improvement of DEG's customers' file
system, meter reading, billing, collecting and
disconnecting practices;
(iii) Improvement of DEG's operation and maintenance
practices;
(iv) A training program for DEG's labor forces and
technicians, establishment of a training unit
within DEG and staffing of such unit with local
supervisors and a program of fellowships abroad in
the hydraulics, sanitary, and water resources
management field, and training through apprentice-
ships and seminars abroad in water supply entities
for DEG technicians;
(v) a program of improvement of DEG's accounting
procedures; and
(vi) A comprehensive plan satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for the improvement of DEG's managerial,
organizational, operational and financial effici-
ency.
Part D:   Studies
Studies to determine: (a) availability of groundwater
resources; (b) feasibility of water supply systems in
seven secondary urban centers; (c) the market for


﻿- 22 -
alumina subproducts; (d) marketing and organizational
arrangements for a PVC pipe manufacturing unit; and (e)
ways of assisting and promoting local construction
industry.
Part E:   Strengthening of Sector Planning
Strengthening of the planning capabilities of the water
and sanitation sector by the technical assistance of a
planning consultant.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1982.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Parts B (i), (ii), (iii)
and (vi) off the Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 24 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Guinea if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Guinea equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Guinea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 25 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 3 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for
a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indi-
cate the preference and the method that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such prefer-
ence.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less may be awarded through competitive


﻿- 26 -
bidding procedures on the basis of local advertising, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts to be so
awarded shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$500,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part C above and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association 's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the Project
Unit, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of the said Project


﻿- 27 -
Unit and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Small works such as pipe replacement, connection, and meter
installation estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of
$600,000 or less may be carried out by force account.


