Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PRe"tp N.. P-3884-IfD
REPORT AND RECOKMENDAIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANG. FOR RECONSTRUCION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS11.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
October 9, 1984
Thk doemrew bus a resftided dkb%utim and  ay be mod by recipimis omy in the pfera  o
their offia_" dude  Its c--me ay nm othrwise Be dshed witho Wee Dak miher .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        = Ip 1,000
Rp 100         = US$0.10
Bp 1 million   = USS1,000
GOVERNMEN OF INDONSIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AAETE          - Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD           - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPEDA        - Agency for Regional Developmert Planning
8APPENAS       - National Development P!aning Agency
GOI            -  Government of Indone;ia
KUPEDES        - General Rural Credit Program of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (the
People's Bank of Indoi-esia)
REC            - Rural Extension Center
REPEITA       - National Five-Year Develt-pment Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Re,elita III, 1979-84, Repelita IV,
1984-89)                             -
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
,INNIA
UPLAND AGR CULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumnary
Borrower:      Republic of Indonesia
Amount:        US$11.3 million equivaLent, including the capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project
Description:   The proposed project would further develop and disseminate the
technology for soil and water conservation and upland farming
systems, establishing the basis for expanding this program to
similar areas of critical lands in Indoncsia. The project
includes: (a) a pilot project to promote sustainable upland
farming systems covering 23,000 ha in eight districts of the
Jratunseluna River Basin in Central Java and the Brantas River
Basin in East Java; (b) farming systems research for areas of
critically eroded lands, the results of which would be tested
on 72 demonstration plots; (c) about 475 km of access roads;
Cd) human resource development, under which training would be
provided to farmers and community leaders, agricultural
extension agents, and to planning, management and
administrative staff at the provincial and district levels;
(e) institutional development, under which long-term specia-
lists would be recruited to provide support and training at
various Levels; and (f) a US$500,000 project innovation fund,
which would finance proposals from nongovernment institutions
and special tovernment-funded activities that address issues of
upland productivity and/or resource conservation. The agricul-
tural and conservation practices to be developed and tested are
expected to result in sustained yields and increased incomes
for the 165,000 families in the project area. They would also
preserve soil and water resources and protect infrast-ucture
from excessive siltation. The acceptance by farmers of the
recommended practices is the key risk element of the project;
however, it has been designed to promote acceptance of these
practices based on experience in three earlier projects.
This document hals a restriad distn-bution and may be used byl recipients only in the performance Or
thei offral duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:/a
Local    Foreign    Total
(uS5 million) -
Sustainable U-Land Farming Systems              10.6        0.9       11.5
Farming Systems Research                          3.3       0.3        3.6
Access Roads                                      4.3       0.1        4.4
Hnman Resource Development                        1.2       1.0        2.2
Institutional Development                        5.4        8.4       13.8
Project Innovation Fuwd                           0.4       0.1        0.5
Base Cost                                    25.2       10.8      36.0
Physical contingencies                            2.5       1.1        3.6
Price contingencies                              8.3        2.2       10.5
Total Project Cost                           36.0       14.1      50.1
Front-end fee on Bank loan                         -        0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required:                    36.0       14.2      50.2
Financing Plan:                        Local      Foreign    Total        Z
- (US$ million) -
IBRD                                 9.0         2.3 lb   11.3        22
USAID                                7.0         11.9      18.9 /c    38
cOI                                 20.0           -       20.0        40
Total                             36.0        14.2       50.2
Estimated Disbursements:
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   _Y90   FY91
-               --=TV-US  millioF    -
Annual            0.8    1.1    1.6    1.9    2.0    2.2    1.7
Cumulative        0.8    1.9    3.5    5.4    7.4    9.6   11.3
.
Rate of Return:    12Z on sustainable upland farming systems including access
roads. The ERR of institutional and human resource
development and research cannot be quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            USAID Project Paper entitled "Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project", July 5, 1984. (IBRD No. 5291-IND)
Map:          ~    IBRD No. 18190.
/a Estimated costs shown are net of taxes and duties due to the tax exempt
status of the implementing agencies.
/b Including front-end fee.
7&  Including a grant 1..i US$5 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
-OF THE INTERNATIONAL 3ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON k PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE UPLAND ACRICULTURE AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$11.3 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Upland Agriculture and Con-
servation Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, incLuding five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The project would be
cofinanced with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
as the lead donor institution; USAID would provide US$18.9 million, including
a grant of US$5 million, over a period of seven years.
PART I - THE ECONOKY 1/
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was discributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world.  About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1982 estimate of GNP /er capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Secondary Educi-
tion and Management Training Project (No. P-3879-IND), circulated under
cover of R84-270, dated September 26, 1984, and submitted for approval by
the Executive Directors on October 16, 1984.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GCP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8X p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, r-ohabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60Z of Central Government receipts by 1980181 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 42 p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14Z p.a.), although this was from
a very lGw base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past eighteen months include:
Ca)  a 28Z devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products over the past two
years, which have largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) approval of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at increasing
government revenues by broadening the tax base, simpli"ying the
structure of rates and improving administration.



- 3 -
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4X
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, che current account deficit has been reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4Z
of GNP) in 1982/83 to about US$4.2 billion (6.0% of GNP) in 1983/84. The
major factors resoonsible for this improvement are import cuts resulting from
the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand and higher export earnings
-        from non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the
Government's policies to promo-e non-oil exports. The Government's restraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have risen on average
*        by only 2% p.a. over the past two years.  Routine expenditure has been held in
check by a freeze on civil service salaries (a 15% increase is budgeted for
1984/85) and reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer and petroleum products.
This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about
12% in 1983184, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the recent petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Xedium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        A sustained rate of growth of at least 5% p.a. is probably necessary
to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation
over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate, without
generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the major
challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the economy
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public invescment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import
content of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to faci-
litate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program.
Possible options include preparation of multi-year expendicure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures.  The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capitai formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there wouLd be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the externat
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable



- 4 -
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restr_ctions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also Led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financiaL resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50X of Indonesia's CDP and 62% of its population, but only 7Z of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the
importance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are
two important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of
growth to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of
these is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 161 of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of which one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both



between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much Less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxtion on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
*        reducing poverty.  Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
Living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem
*        continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The
1979-81 bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined. This situation may have been reversed
following the 1983 devaluation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban infcrmal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on
agricultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at
economic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural
year (e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to
encourage agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important
that public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as
social programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease
the burden of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government
needs to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtuaLly achieved and the enrol'men. rate in junior
secondary schooLs is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapic economic development ana
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has bce.- a Large expansioa. in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but cjntinued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
compLemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the



- 6 -
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60Z and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term.  Even so,                 0
continued resource transfers from abroad will stilL be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (52 p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.6 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of
external reserves has been rebuiLt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 is estimated at
US$23.7 billion, with an additional US$11.2 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, offirial assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 472 and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 22%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at
14 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts in 1983, the
ratio rose to 23% in that year. With the projected Levels and composition of
borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service ratio, again
based on net exports, would rise to about 28% in 1985 and then gradually de-
cline to about 23Z by the end of the decade. With private MLT debt included,
the total debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross
exports, would rise from 19% in 1983 to around 22Z during 1985-B8 and decline
to 20X in 1990. While debt management will require careful attention in the
coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by inter-
national standards.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1984, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$931.8 million, and 85 Bank loans amounting to US$6,259.5 million. IFC
commitments totalled US$162.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982 was
13.3Z, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984. Given the critical importance of
*      agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
d.velopment, water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial devel-
opment financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications,
population and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conciusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
19.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. In
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Secondary
Education and Management Training Project (No. P-3879-IND), circulated
under covtr of R84-270, dated September 26, 1984, and submitted for
approval by the Executive Directors on October 16, 1984.



- 8 -
addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
steps, under che Special Assistance Program, to accelerace disbursements in 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors. The only significant shift anticipated
in the composition of lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the educa-
tion sector, a direct response to the severe shortage of skilled manpower. In
the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor- and resource-intensive industries. This analysis may lead to a series
of industrial projects which would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy,
sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning.
Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of
lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for
transport is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of
social services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and
water supply, will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the devel-
opment of innovative low-cost solutions.
20.   4  The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio    from a low of 13% in FY80, to 19% in FY84.  The poor FY80 ratio was
in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122%
compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical manpower of course
compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979, November 1981 and in May 1984. As a
consequence of these joint initiativpa, GOI has taken measures to streamline
some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project
implementation. The Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improve-
ments are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements
from USS206 million in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and COI mai.iain their efforts.
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginnin- of the fiscal year.



21_       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the co=try's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending
has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was veLl below
the IDA cutoff level. Given Indonesia's much improved creditworthiness, IDA
lending was discontinued in FY80.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
22.       Objectives for the Agriculture Sector.  The agriculture sector is of
overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians: nearly 80Z of
the popularion live in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of
income for abcut two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban house-
holds_ GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural sectors are
to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the rural poor;
(b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand
agricultcral exports; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other resources.  In line with these objectives,
which the Bank supports, the GOI's efforts to develop the agricultural sector
are directed to various areas including, inter alia, food crops, tree crops,
area development- transmigrat ion and, more recently, upland farming and
watershed development, and natural resource conservation.
23.       Upland Farming.  As a result of demographic pressures, Indonesian
agriculture, in the form of intensive farming on Java and shifting cultivation
on the less densely populated islands, has been extended into upland areas of
major river basins which are highly susceptible to erosion. On Java alone,
over one million ha have been identified as critical Lands so degraded as to
be unable to sustain even subsistence agriculture. These critical lands have
been estimated to increase nationwide at a rate of approzimat4ly 200,000 ha
per annum. This estimate, supported by sediment load sampling studies in
selected catckment areas, provides evidence of the seriousness of soil and
water degradation in Indonesia.
24.       The majority of soil losses in Indonesia are generated from small,
private land holdings of Low-income and subsistence farmers. Continued
erosion at the present levels could result in complete loss of productivity
within ten years. At present many areas are being abandoned because they are
no longer productive. The GOI attaches high priority to development programs
in areas of lands considered critical because they are so degraded that they
are, or soon will be, unable to sustain even subsistence agriculture, and
which are concerned with increasing food production and the incomes of rural
farmers. It has already initiated a range of agriculture development and con-
servation programs and the Fourth Five-Year Plan, Repelita IV (1984-a9),
indicates an emphasis during the current plan period on exploiting the produc-
tion potential of the country's rainfed, upland areas.
25_       Watershed Development and Resource Conservation.  Evidence of the
priority given by GOI to addressing the rapidly deteriorating conditions found



- 10 -
in many of the nation's watersheds (particularly in Java, Bali, Madura and the
eastern islands of the archipelago) is provided by the substantial commitment
of resources to the National Regreening ?rogram, a program under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Forestry and covering forest and tree crop
areas. During fiscal year 1982 alone, the GOI committed approximately US$140
million to this program. This is supplemented by the USAID-assisted Citanduy
River Basin Development Project and three agriculture and conservation
projects in the provinces of East Nusa Tenggara, West Nusa Tenggara and on the
island of Madura. The Bank-assisted Yogyakarta Rural Development Project
(Credit 946-IND) also provided some support to a pilot watershed management
effort in the critical areas of the Gunung Kidul and Kulon Progo districts in
Central Java. In addition, the Upper Solo Watershed Management and Upland
DeveLopment Project initiated by FAD in 1972, now constitutes a center for
research and training in soil and water conservation under the National
Regreening Program.
26.       Sectoral Issues and Constraints.  The increasing awareness by the
GOI of the problems related to upland agriculture, watershed development and
resource conservation has highlighted a number of issues and constraints which
need to be addressed if agricultural productivity is to be increased and sus-
tainable use of land and water resources achieved in the critical uplands of
the nation's watersheds. The major issues relate to: (a) the wide variation
in the agro-climatic and demog-:aphic conditions which characterize the
Indonesian archipelago; (b) the institutional constraints which make it diff-
icult to address upland farming and conservation problems; and (c) the socio-
economic constraints which restrict the application of more productive farming
systems and conservation practices.
27.       The characteristics of the Indonesian watersheds vary greatly.  In
Java, Bali and Madura they are humid and densely populated; in Sumatra,
Kalimantan, parts of Sulawesi and Irian .Jaya they are humid and sparsely
populated; and in East and West N-isa Tenggara and East Timor they are not only
sparsely populated, but are also subject to longer periods of drought. These
variations require a range of different technological solutions and institu-
tional arrangementc. To address these problems there is only a limited
research base supporting GCI's upland agriculture and conservation effort;
data on which to make sound management decisions are insufficient as is the
availability of appropriate grasses and planting material.
28.       The current institutional arrangements for dealing with the various
aspects of watershed management and development constitute a more serious
impediment co progress. A high degree of centralization characterizes both
the National Regreening Program and the government's agricultural services,
which is incompatible with the diversity of upland conditions throughout
Indonesia. Factors affecting current efforts are: (a) the fragmented struc-
ture between national, provincial and district levels of government services;
(b) the lack of formal links between the National Regreening Prcgram, agriLul-
ture research, and the government's formal credit programs; (c) the character
of the Rural Extension Centers (RECs), staffed almost exclusively with food



- 11 -
crop technicians; and (d) the limited participation of local communities and
farmer groups.
29.       Upland resource degradation is associated with low-income levels of
upland communities which over-exploit the resources for their existence.
Adoption of consarvation farming has almost been neglected because farmers do
not see any evidence that the combination of technology and government support
will offer higher returns at lower risks.
30.       Bank Group Lending in Upland Farming and Watershed Management. The
project would be the first involvement of the Bank Group in a project that
exclusively addresses the problems of upland farming and land and water
resource conservation in Indonesia. These subjects, however, have been a
persistent concern in steep erodible lands under rainfed conditions. Examples
of this concern are the soil conservation program in the Cimanuk River
catchment basin included in the Sixth Irrigation Project (Loan 1100-IND); the
soil conservation component in Transmigration III ProJect CLoan 2248-IND); the
attention given to soil and water conservation practices in the Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder Sugar Project (Loan 2344-IND); and the Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project, which includes an upland farming and conservation compo-
nent on which this project is partLy based. More recently, a Bank-assisted
Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2375- DD) emphasizes
catchment basin protection measures for medium-sized irrigacion schemes in
eight provinces. The Bank's -oncern over inadequate watershed management and
resource conservation and on the plight of upland farmers has resulted in
efforts to urge the Government to develop a program designed to address such
problems. Difficulties in coordinating the efforts of the agencies involved,
particularly because the natural boundaries of the watersheds do not coincide
with the political boundaries under which the agencies operate, were an
obstacle to such a program. The USAID approach, which focusses on the
district as the project unit and distributes program responsibilities among
r'he various national, provincial and district levels, has been accepted by the
agencies involved.
31.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank has long been concerned
with the increasing problem of upland degradation and inappropriate watershed
management in Indonesia. The erosion of upland areas not only reduces agri-
cultural productivity but aLso aggravates the need for moving farmers to
travsmigration sites after their farms have become unproductive. It also
threatens the useful life of costly irrigation and power infrastructure and
increases their maintenance costs. The project would provide the opportunity
to establish a satisfactory institutional framework to address these concerns
and strengthen the agencies involved, and to develop the technological basis
for expanding the program throughout other river basins in Indonesia. Bank
participation in this project would enable its staff to monitor, assess and
determine the practices which could be replicated in other areas and
considered for assistance in future projects.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The project was identifie# ,by USAID in the course of a watershed
assessment study conducted in 1983.-' USAID has a particular expertise in
this area, given its long experience with similar activities in Indonesia.
The project was prepared by   USAID team and representatives of the goveriment
agencies directly involved    on the basis of experience gained from the
National Regreening Program, works initiated in 1972 by FAD in the Solo
Watershed Development Project, the Bank Group-assisted Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project and the USAID-financed Citanduy River Basin Development
Project. A Bank staff member also participated to ensure that the preparation
document provided alL the information and analysis normally contained in a
Bank Staff Appraisal Report. In accordance with USAID procedures, agreement
was reached with GOI officials on project composition, organization and
related arrangements for the project in the course of project preparation.
These arrangements are reflected in USAID's Project Paper, that agency's
equivalent to a Bank Staff Appraisal Report; the Project Paper combines the
preparation and appraisal tasks into one exercise. Negotiations between the
GOr and USAID were held in June-July 1984. Negotiations between the W I and
the Bank were held in Jakarta on September 18, 1984. The Indonesian
delegation was led by Mr. Hariri Hady, the Deputy Chairman for Regional
Affairs in the Natic-L Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS).  The Project
Paper is being circulated separately.   Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
33.       The project's main objectives are to assist the Government in ensur-
ing productive and sustainable use of Indonesia's 'Land, water and other
natural resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for its
implementation. The project wouLd address the previously mentioned technical,
institutional and socio-economic constraints inhibiting the sector. Using the
implementation capacities of the provincial governments and the district level
operational agencies, the project would introduce and disseminate farming
practices designed to ensure higher productivity in the critical areas, pre-
serve soiL and water resources and protect existing or planned downstream
infrastructure from siltation. Integration of project activities would be
largely achieved by the concentration of agricultural extension and regreening
program staff in the RECs establisned under the national extension program and
supported by two Bank Group-assisted projects, the National Food Crops Exten-
sion Project (Loan 1267-IND) and the Second National Agricultural Extension
Project (Credit 996-tND).
5/  Composite Report of the Watershed Assessment Team Assembled by the
Government of Indonesia and USAID between March 20 and May 7, 1983,
(Jakarta: May 14, 1983, USAID Doc. No. 1446A).
6/  Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of Population and
Environment, BAPPENAS, BAPPEDAS, AARD, AAETE, Provincial Governments for



- 13 -
Project Description
34.       The project's specific purpose would be to expand and improve
institutional capacities, primarily at provincial, district and farm levels,
and to experiment with and apply alternative approaches to upland farming.
This approach is expected to result in increased farm production and incomes,
while mini--zing soil erosion in densely populated upland areas in two river
basins of Java by improving farming systems, farm technologies and manage-
ment. The project would have six components: (a) Sustainable UpLand Farming
Systems Pilot Project; (b) Farming Systems Research; Cc) Access Roads to
Conservation Areas; Cd) Human Resource Development; (e) a Project Innovation
Fund; and (f) Institutional Development, including the establishment of a
Management Information System to maintain adequate planning and day-to-day
management and to facilitate monitoring of project impact. The selection of
the two river basins was made on the basis of critical areas identified
through a survey conducted by the NationaL Regreening Program and by a
GOI/USAID watershed assessment team. One additional criterion for selection
was the existence within these river basins of extensive infrastructure that
is highly susceptible to siltation from watershed erosion.
35.       Sustainable Upland Farming Systems Pilot Project.  This pilot
project, operating through a system of 22 RECs in eight districts and 63 sub-
districts of the two target provinces of Central and East Java, would:
(a) design and develop plans for conservation areas within each REC work
region; Cb) establish about 72 demonstration farms (three or four per REC) for
improved agriculture and conservation practices and 10 nurseries for the
supply of grasses and seedlings needed to consolidate terrace embankmnents and
establish silvipasture on lands exceeding a 50Z slope; and (c) organize commu-
aity conservation groups and mobilize viLlage councils, religious institutions
and other nongovernment organizations to support and advance the wide-scale
adoption of the recommended sustainable farming practices.  This component
would focus on the systematic diffusion of upland agriculture and conservation
technologies. The degree of acceptance of these technologier by upland
farmers constitutes the basic measure of the project's impact. To promote
this acceptance and based on the experience of the three earlier projects in
Solo, Citanduy and Yogyakarta, provision would be made to assist rural fami-
lies involved in the project through the supply of planting material, fertil-
izers, and other inputs during the two initial years of the recomnended
practices, to cover some 23,000 ha over the life of the project. With the
technical assistance to be provided under the project, the provincial and
district organizations would have the capability to implement and manage an
area of this size. The area is large enough to produce a demonstrable effect
that would encourage expansion to adjacent areas.
36.       Farming Systems Research. A research program fully integrated into
the national research network of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) would address the major aspects of upland farming systems,
including: (a) soil and water conservation and management; (b) crop and live-
stock systems; (c) tree crops and silvipasture; and (d) socio-economic
factors. The program would establish a field laboratory in Central Java and a
minimum of eight on-site research stations in representative project areas of
both target provinces. Special attention would be given to linkages between



- 14 -
agricultural research and extension. Ensuring the effectiveness of these
linkages is one of the principal objectives of the hARD.
37.       Access Roads.  To provide access to the demonstration farms and to
the expansion areas of the Sustainable Upland Farming Systems Pilot Project,
about 475 km of access roads, located generally in the higher and more
isolated portions of the watersheds, would be constructed. These roads would
be used for delivery of farm inputs, for general communications, and as
marketing channels for the private sector. The roads, although of lower
standards than those -sed for most rural roads in Indonesia, would be designed
for all-weather use and would be constructed in accordance with traditional
construction methods in Java for this type of road, using labor-intensive
force account procedures to generate local employment. Design, supervision of
construction, and maintenance of these access roads would be the responsi-
bility of the district level office of the Ministry of Public Works. Such
road construction procedures are being followed successfully under the ongoing
USAID-assisted Padat Karya (self-help) rural roads program.
38.       Human Resource Development.  The project would provide skills
training to more than 6O0 government employees and over 2,000 farmers. The
skilLs training would focus on specific agricultural techniques, planning and
management, and on motivation and communication. Training would be directed
at different groups incLuding (a) farmers and community leaders; (b) extension
agents; (c) extension supervisors; (d) subject matter specialists; and
(e) planning, management and administrative staff. A program of workshops,
newsLetters, study tours, and demonstration visits by an Upland Agriculture
and Conservation Information Group to be set up under the project, would also
be carried out. The training program would be organized by the existing
Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) and would
seek, not only to improve the capabilities of project staff at all levels, but
also to provide a link to appLied research at home and abroad.
39.       Institutional Development.  Implementation of the proposed project
would require institutional development at various levels, particularly as the
project would be expected to evolve into a broader program. To achieve this,
technical assistance would be provided at the national, provincial and
district levels. The high level of technical assistance provided under the
project would be largely directed at establishing the institutional network
capable of carrying out an expanding program throughout the critical land
areas of Indonesia. Thus, a similar level of technical assistance would not
be required for subsequent projects in other critial areas of the country.
40.       Three long-term specialists would be recruited and assigned to the
Executive Secretariat of the project (see para. 44 below) for a total of 12
man-years. They would develop training materials and provide support to the
training program; assist the Ministry of Forestry in conservation planning,
management and policy formulation, and assist the Ministry of Agriculture in
upland ag:iculture planning, management ~.nd poLicy formulation. In addition,
5 man-years of short-term technical assistance would be provided.
41.       Technical assistance at the provincial and district level would
include about 70 man-years of consultancy services in agriculture and manage-



- 15 -
ment. Approximately 50X of the consultants would be externally recruited; the
balance would be Indonesians. In addition, the Farming System Research
component would be supported through a USAID-financed collaborative research
agreement between AAp and the International Rice Research Institute,
representing a consortium of international agriculture research centers.
About 12 man-years would be needed for the research component, including a
senior specialist for farming systems and five addicional specialists, each
for two months per year.
42.       Project Innovation Fund.  The project would provide a USS500,000
fund to encourage innovation and experimentation to respond to widely varying
agroclimatic and socioeconomic conditions not only through the formal
government institutions and programs at national, provincial and district
levels but also through interested local private institutions, research
organizations, universities and the communities themselves. The Project
Innovation Fund would also be used to finance such studies and small-scale
activities as are relevant to project objectives.
43.       Access to Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit is essential to
the successful implementation of the project. This would be made available
through the Financial Institutions Development Project, an ongoing USAID-
assisted program targeted to provide assistance to Bank Kredit Kecamatans, a
sub-district credit organization of Bank Pembangunan Daerah, a provincial bank
in Central Java. In the early phase of implementation, the Financial
Institutions Development Project would provide assistance to Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (the People's Bank of Indonesia) to expand the recently established
Ceneral Rural Credit Program (KUPEDES) into the projecc areas in Central and
East Java. The KUPEDES program provides rural credit at rates of 18Z per
annum for investment capital and 24Z per annum for working capital, with an
incentive reduction of 1 per month to borrowers who pay on time. Even with
this reduction the real interest rates under the program remain positive. The
technical assistance provided under the proposed project would support the
development of proper phasing, procedures and accounting practices as the
KUPEDES program expands to the uplands.
Project Management and Implementation
44.       The organization and management of the proposed project has been
designed to overcome the constraints encountered in earlier watershed manage-
ment and conservation projects while adhering to principles of decentraliza-
tion, unified mangement and, to the extent possible, unified budgeting. The
INPRES Dati I, a provincial funding channel of the Government, would be used
to finance the Sustainable Upland Farming Systems Pilot Project, the access
roads, and the training component as well as the incremental operating
expenses associated with the provincial and district-level project management
structure. An Inter-Ministerial Policy Committee would be responsible for
establishing policy for the project. The Committee would be composed of tihe
Ministers of Home Affairs (the Lead ministry), Agriculture, Forestry, PopuLa-
tion and Environment, Public Works, and Finance, and a representative of
BAPPENAS, the National DeveLopment Planning Agency. The Directorate General
for Regional Development in the Ministry of Home Affairs would act as an
Executive Secretariat for the project.



- 16 -
45.       Project management would rest with the provincial and district
agencies. The Governors of Central and East Java would be responsible for
overall project direction and performance evaluation, and for program manage-
ment, with the exception of the research, credit and training components,
which would be implemented by other agencies as explained below. The
Governors would be assisted in these tasks by a Provincial Guidance Team and
by a Project Coordination Office for each province. This Office would carry
out the policy instructions of the Provincial Guidance Team and execute the
planning and monitoring/evaluation activities, as well as record its financial
aspects. District Chiefs (Bupatis) of each participating district would be
responsible to the Provincial Governor for the overall planning and coordi-
nated implementation of the project in their respective districts. The
District Chief would be assisted in these tasks by a District Guidance Team
comprising representatives of the district-level offices of the implementing
agencies and by a Project Management Unit headed by a Project Manager. The
Project Management Unit would be directly responsible for the training of its
staff and the administration of the Project Innovation Fund in its district.
Bank Rakyat Indonesia would be responsible for agricultural credit, and the
district-level office of the Ministry of Public Works would handle the program
for the conservation access roads. The Sustainable Upland Farming Systems
Pilot Project would be implemented by four technical agencies: the three
district offices for agriculture, livestock and estate crops, and the sub-unit
of soil conservation. To ensure the early implementation of this organiza-
tional structure, the USAID Loan and Grant Agreements establish as special
conditions precedent to disbursement of funds, evidence that (a) the
Provincial Coordination Offices and Project Management Units have been
established and that sufficient project staff is in place to carry out the
first-year activities; (b) the Project Executive Secretariat has been
established and is formulating appropriate guidance for project implementa-
tion; and (c) guidance has been issued and is in effect to place project
management at the provincial and district levels, to unify management, and to
unify budgeting. The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement
set forth in the USAID Loan and Grant Agreements is a condition of effective-
ness of the Bank's Loan Agreement (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The AARD is responsible for formulating and coordinating agricul-
tural research policy in Indonesia. AARD would coordinate its activities with
the Inter-Ministerial Policy Committee in which the Ministries of Agriculture
and Forestry, the two agencies most directly concerned with the application of
practices resulting from the research, are represented. Under the AARD, a
Research Project Management Unit would be established to provide technical
support and leadership and to coordinate with the respective provincial and
district level guidance teams. A field laboratory would be established at a
watershed headquarters in the Jratunseluna River Basin with about four on-site
research posts distributed throughout the basin. Similarly, a watershed head-
quarters with about four on-site research posts would be established in the
Brantas River Basin. After completion of the USAID-financed Citanduy River
Basin Development Project and the Bank-assisted Yogyakarta Rural Development
Project, the respective farming systems and conservation research components
of these projects would be incorporated into the regional research network as
two additional watershed headquarters.



- 17 -
47.       The project would be implemented in seven years, from 1984 to
1991. The long implementation period is necessitated by the administrative
and technical nature of the project, which requires considerable time for the
organization and strengthening of the implementing agencies at all levels and
development of technically superior farming systems. However, the Rural
Extension Centers have been built and partly staffed, and the agricultural
extension services and the National Regreening Program are already
operational. The work programmed for the first year is therefore expected to
commence shortly after loan signing. USAID has taken the necessary steps to
provide the technical assistance and training required for the earLy stages of
implementation.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The estimated total project cost, including physical contingencies
and price escalation, is US$50.1 million of which US$14.1 million is the
foreign exchange cost and US$36.0 million the local currency cost. Base
costs, which have been updated to mid-1984 prices, are based on costs of
similar works, goods and services in the vicinity of the project areas. A
physical contingency of 10% has been applied for all project components, and
an inflation factor of 7X compounded has been applied to base cost and
contingency line items to account for price escaLation. Overall, the contin-
gencies constitute 28Z of total project cost. Calculated under Bank current
domestic and foreign price increase projections, these contingencies would
constitute 30% of project costs. Because of the tax- and duty-free status of
the implementing agencies, the above costs are net of duties and taxes.
49.       The combined financial contributions from the Bank and USAID would
be US$30.2 million or about 60% of total project cost. The Bank-assisted
portion would be US$11.3 million, including the front-end fee of US$100,000.
The remaining US$20.0 million would be provided by the Government. The Bank's
contribution would finance 16% of foreign costs and 25% of local costs, while
that of USAID would cover 84% of foreign costs and 19% of local costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       The consultant services included in the institutional deveLopment
component would be financed entirely by USAID and would be contracted directly
with the International Rice Research Institute, the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, and the U.S. Soil Conservation Service. Bank staff are satisfied
that qualified and experienced soil and water conservation and farming systems
specialists needed for that component could be recruited expeditiousLy by
USAID from these instcitutions. For all ocher components, local procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank and to USAID are proposed, including labor-
intensive force account techniques for access roads and small civil works. In
accordance with normal Government procedures which have been accepted by the
Bank for other projects, seeds, seedlings, fertilizers and other agricultural
inputs wouLd be procured directly from P.T. PUSRI and P.T. PERTANI, two
Indonesian parastatal firms which have been proven to provide these inputs at
lower prices and acceptable quality. These procurement arrargements are
summarized in t,.e table below.



- 18 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Not
Force                      Ap- /b     Total
Project element             ICB       Account       Other /a    plicable      Cost
A.  Civil Works                            6.30         -            -          6.30
(3.60)
B.  Vehicles                                -          1.00          -          1.00
Equipment                              -           0.35          -         0.35
(0.10)
Seeds, seedlings,
fertilizers and
pesticides                           -          15.25          -        15.25
(3.70)
C. Technical Assistance
Consulting services       -             -         13.90         4.80      18.70
Training                  -                         -           3.00       3.00
(1.60)
Research                               -            -           5.00       5.00
(2.20)
D. Project Innovation
Fund                                 -            -           0.50       0.50
Total                    -           6.30        30.50        13.30      50.10
(3.60)      (3.80)       (3.80)    (11.20)
/a   Includes local procurement procedures used by GOI and acceptable to the Bank.
/b   Includes expenditures of foreign consultants, training and support of farming
systems research, items not obtained under specific procurement procedures.
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
51.       Disbursements against the Sustainable Upland Farming Systems Pilot
Project, farming systems and access roads, which are jointly financed, will be
made by both the Bank and USAID. Expenditures for human resource development
would be reimbursed solely by the Bank, while those for institutional develop-
ment and the Project Innovation Fund would be reimbursed only by USAID. The
Bank would reimburse 25% of total expenditures for sustained upland farming
systems; 50% of total expenditures for research in upland farming; and 60% of
total expenditures for access roads and project-related training. Statements
of Expenditure would be submitted to USAID for review and disbursement of the



- 19 -
portion they finance. The Bank would disburse against approval by USAID of
the Statements of Expenditure for jointly-financed components and after review
by USAID of components financed solely by the Bank, to ensure that the request
for reimbursement falls within the scope of the project. Detailed documents
supporting these statements would be retained by GOI and made available for
inspection and review by Bank and USAID supervision missions.
Accounts and ALdits
52.       The Government would maintain separate accounts for the project.
These accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Within six months of the end of every fiscal year, the audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank and USAID in such detail as these agencies may
request from time to time (Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Records of expenditure for civil works on force account and small contracts
wiLl be kept in sufficient detail and audited on an annual basis by the
Project's auditors. A copy of each such audit report would be furnished to
the Bank within three months of the date of audit.
Project Monitoring
53.       Each Provincial Government, through its Project Coordination Office
would be responsible for collecting data and monitoring the progress of the
various activities of the project. A baseline survey to determine the level
of adoption of recommended farming systems and conservation practices would be
conducted initially, and follow-up surveys and case studies would be institu-
ted, as judged appropriate during project supervision, to determine the pro-
ject's impact. The baseline survey is included in the pre-implementation
activities under the project and the technical assistance provided at the
provincal level would assist the Provincial Government in establishing a
suitable monitoring system, using the experience of the three earlier projects
as a basis.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The primary benefits to the economy from the project would be the
increased productivity of Low-yielding and rapidly eroding uplands through the
introduction of improved farming systems and conservation practices. In
addition, the protection against siltation of three existing dams in the
Brantas River Basin and irrigation systems in both the Brantas and the
Jratunseluna watersheds, through reduced soil erosion upstream, would
represent substantial savings to the economy. The impact of the agricultural
research and extension components on improving the productivity of other
critical areas, aLthough not easily quantifiable, can be expected to be
substantial given the low productivity and rapid degradation prevailing in
similar areas in Indonesia. There are no unusual technical risks associated
with the project since its design, as a first step in a national program, is
based on constant evaluation and improvement. The rate of acceptance of
reco=mPndqd practices by the farmers constitutes the key risk element in the
schente and the project has been designed to increase that acceptance on the
basis of experience which has proved successful in three earlier projects,
using demonstration plots, improved farming systems, subsidized inputs for a



- 20 -
limited period of time, and intensified extension. InstitutionaL risks which
had constituted a constraint for projects of this type have been minimized by
the proposed organizational structure and the conditions set forth in the
USAID documents.
55.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at
122. This level is considered satisfactory in view of the substantial secon-
dary benefits of the project which have not been quantified. The economic
analysis is based on net incremental economic benefits and the full project
costs. The opportunity cost of capital for Indonesia is 10% and at this rate
the net present value of the project would be US$12.3 million equivalent. A
sensitivity analysis shows that an increase of 202 in project costs would
decrease the ERR to 11 and a reduction of net incremental benefits by 202
would reduce the ERR to 10%. An improbable combination of both an increase in
costs and reduction of benefits by 20Z would reduce the ERR to 8Z. No attempt
has been made to attribute precise levels of primary benefits to research and
extension components since it is virtually impossible to determine what
proportion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices are
due to extension or research alone and what is due to the use of additional
inputs or other externalities. An effort has been made to determine the
indirect benefits resulting from the successful reduction of flooding and
sedimentation. Assuming that the rate of sedimentation would be reduced by
one-half by conservation practices, the present value of the reduced external
costs would be about US$10 million with additional benefits to fisheries,
turbines, etc. If, without the project, erosion increased at a rate of 2X per
annum, the present value would be US$20 million or two-thirds of the costs of
conservation praccices over a 40-year horizon.
Employment and Environmental Impact
56.       The project would provide permanent employment to additional exten-
sion agents, supervisors and specialists and temporary employment to about
2,000 laborers constructing access roads and smaLl infrastructure. This
employment impact, however, is secondary to the effect on sustained agricul-
tural productivity of the upland areas, the impact of which would extend
beyond the target areas. The project's improved agricultural and conservation
practices would have an even larger and more relevant impact on the regional
environment. On Java alone, a total of 1.2 million ha have been designated as
critical lands and this area is estimated to increase by 75,000 ha annually
(about 200,000 ha in all of Indonesia) as a result of demographic pressures on
agriculture which extend intensive farming and shifting cultivation into
upland areas. Similar conditions exist in other densely populated and humid
watersheds of Indonesia, including Bali and Madura. The combined effect of
terracing, improved cultivation and silvipasture on the conservation of soil
and water resources and on the reduction of floods and sedimentation in the
lower portions of the basins, which would prevent costly damage to downstream
dams and hydroelectric plants, irrigation canals and estuaries important to
fisheries, is difficult to assess, but is no doubt considerable. Of no less
importance are the technologies that would be developed through the applied
research component which would have a significant environmental impact on
other upland areas and river basins throughout Indonesia.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUHENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. A special condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank Loan would be that the conditions precedent to disbursement set
forth in the USAID Loan and Grant Agreements shall have been fulfilled (para.
45).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 9, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
IlDONlSIA            - SOCAL IDICAMS DATA SET
tHONESIA                          REFERNCE  OUPS (tEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
.HOST                  (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RiZpokT          NDLE INCmE           RIDDLE !couz
1960t!!    1970-l! E$Tililb      AS  & BPACIFIC        LAT. ANRCA & CA
AnA CUOUAD SQ. ME)
TOTAL                            1919.3     1919.3   1919.3
AGRICLTURAL                      296.5      307.1    317.3
8 P  CPIA CUISS)                      90.0      150.0    580.0           1091.2                  2108.6
- r a_uN     M  cmu
(KILoGRAmS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      88.0       96.0    191.0             567.3                  995.5
POPLAION AMD VITAL STATSs
POPULATION.MID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)    94680.0   116201.0 152598.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TaTAL)      14.6       17.1     22.3             34.7                    66.5
POPMLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULAION In TEAR 2000 (HILL)                        212.0
SrATIOLAZ POPULATION (KILL)                          370.1
POPUTION                                               1.9
POPULAnON DESITY
PER SQ. QI.                      49.3       60.5      77.9            261.9                   35.7
PEB SQ. IN. AGRI. UND           319.3      378.4    471.0            1735.1                   92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (C)
0-14  tS                        40.7       44.0     39.5              39.0                   39.9
15-6 US                          56.2       53.4     57.3              57.6                   56.0
65 AND AOVE                       3.1        2.5      3.1               3.3                    4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.0      2.3               2.3                    2.4
URUAS                             3.7        3.6      4.5               4.3                    3.6
CRUDE BIRTI RLXE (PER TUOUS)       44.2       41.0     33.6             30.1                    31.3
CRUDE DEATI RATE (PB INOUS)        22.9       17.6     13.0              9.5                     8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.7        2.7      2.2              2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNIN
ACCEPTORS. ANUAL (DOUS)            ..      181.1   3051.0
USERS (Z OF HAE WlcoN)             ..         ..     53.0 Ic           52.7                   40.3
FOOD AM  IUIDTU
INDEX OF FOQO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0      102.0    117.0             123.0                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIEKERS)       86.0       96.0    110.0             114.4                   110.6
PROTEIDS (CRAMS PER DAY)         3t.0       44.0     49.0              57.0                   67.3
OF WEICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       6.0        6.0       7.0 Id          14.1                    34.1
CHILD 5ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        22.9       16.9     13.0              7.2                     5.7
IIULTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH C(EARS)      41.2       47.0     53.3             60.4                    64.7
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER TBOUS)     149.9      120.9    102.0             66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        3.0      23.0             37.0                   65.4
URBAN                              ..       10.0     41.0              54.8                    78.1
RURAL                              ..        1.0      18.0             26.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EXCPETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOAL                               ..       15.0     23.0              41.3                   52.9
URBAN                              ..       19.0     20.0              47.4                   67.0
RMtAL                              *'       14.0     24.0              33.3                   24.5
rOPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        46760.0    26510.0  11530.0 /a         7749.4                 1917.7
POP. PER  RSING PESON            4510.0 /f  7680.0   2300.0 77         2460.4                  815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0     1650.0   1720.0 /I        1064.2                   367.2
URBAN                           250.0         ..    700.0 7j          651.2                   411.5
RMUAL                               '         ''   316.0 7           2594.6                  2636.3
AISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         ..     22.4 lh           27.0                   27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOWSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.4        4.8
URBAN                             4.9        5.3
RURAL                             4.3        4.7
AVEUACE N. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                              ..        1.5
UR                                 ..        1.6
RUOAL                              ..        1.5
AC 1SS TO ELECT. (Z OF S)LLIN)
TOTAL                              ..
U.A                                ..         ..-
RURAL                              ..         ..        .                 ..



-23-                                      A23 I}
Page 2 of 5 pages
DDO                   -s L           DS  5      -
mme                 0ns Re=
ZinSIA     -b                  in1gi3     -   US        Uo      I
196CI2 ~     ES1Dfff E       ASIA a 56cZII         LAT. ANU      CA
1=1mmt  il_                   71.0       77.0    100.              10Z.0                   105.4
mrz        n      o       .        63o0    106.0             105.9                   106-3
MEX                     55.0       70       94.0              92                     106.5
F          - LaA                   6_0       150     30.0              -0 
MALE                    10M0       20.0     305-7                                     423
,~aZZ                    3.0       10.      2.0               431                     46S
ICA7Z05AL (cE a?                    20.4       22.1     13.4              17.5                    33_6
39-0       29.0     32-0    31     d                          30.1
S E                               160        13MG     16.0              23.5                    I66
ADr LIER   WM CZ)                   39-0       56.6     62.0                9                     79MS
m s        5IiUSA 96           O     -1        2.1       4.4             10L                        .0
R3*2 -I5                            7.21D        . 9  1414               136                     225.6
TV        S/ZXWA  La                 0.1        0.6      9.6              50.1                   0w_2
JIRNMC.DA=Z -ENIA
_ 1ZES- CIDCA=
T XaW                             110          --     17.7              5339                    63.5
CZ=    Ro          C0 2.                         _       0  Id            3.A                     2.8
-~ -
: XA3R P                         3621.0    4o00.   549.0                      
EN"E   C     )                    27.s       30.9     29.1              33.5                    Z3_Z
W           C E)                    G0       66.0    3SS0               5Z-2                    31-5
C.0       10_0     12.0              17-9                    Z3.9
TOC3L                                                 3S_7 35-8         3o-                     32.2
N=t                               56Z        49.5     51.1              50.9                    49.3
e@LE                            a-20.0       21.6     Z7               2.6                      15.2
ECMKM  DEFEMS  SA                   1_Z        1_3       1_Z              1_1                     1
EMr= or pmw=Xp
- =
m cm   2a w           s -     -  --                     . l               -0
LOES 2VE U' D;S                     ._         __      i6.              56 4
-                  W -A __ _ ^ aI=  M_
*.m  a ss P0iz
LEVEL CMS PM CAPZ?)
m                   __                          O120 /n  124.0 11    11 .6                     232
603*                                -       O 106.071 106.07W          152.0                   184.0
flIZNAZMID LAUW 105ZRrT ICC
LEL (USS M COM)
Co"        __     19.0 11          V7-9                    52Z.6
=MAT                                ..                90 71            1566                    372-4
ESAZID L?. am Sau
P0ago= IDIE LamE CZ)
05343                              ._        51_0 11  26.0 /S           23.4
RAL                               ..       59.0_  4.0  W              37.7
x O T z S
- Impauaa far each idilcato  we psu1t1uWa1hd az1thmt1c meana. Cawarzga of countries earnon tha
1.i1cata I  aaa n  &vaLIAbLLlt7 of date amo Is met umlfam.~
/b  Unlesa otbatulA. moted. Dat fOr 19W  zefer to no yer bac1men 1959 And 1951; b2A for 197r betwese 1949 am
1971; -d data for  R Inateat IatIa_ batuem 1960  d 19_2.
IC   93; Ld 1977; le 1979; If 1962; 4 1976; /b 1975; It 10 
Jlll. 19B4



_ I * _ANNEX I
___________                                        Page 3 of 5 pages
.   --   *-_ -        _ *_ 1-.h.   _~ ._  -t __rt_9_ _ ..I                                                        -. .W  _ 9 _
C.f                                              _ .. ., -                                   aa -  *- * _ 1   fl  _ -  __ _ _ -   _ll _   _-_
__l  .9WL _-         _ _   W __  __-  n                                                                      _W _ -  _ a-
_ C.    . t..  Fm                                            _ fl . _S                                   9    -      _& a         -_
_ ..a        a     *z..    ..   _                      .91   _   _        s   a_ ..   _    _    _     . *_  _c _          __ _
-.                _ -. -a- .-l.L   ;_ ._.. _ :.: -S  9.    ,                    -1~.     *91             *   -9  -  -q*l 
_:_-=  169 4W_                                _a.n                                          :_:- 9.iS. -:   _     * 1 E--          = 
-    1. a _  919                .1..               .91...n.                                     ..... _ *i__  _l ft_ _          4W _  ro   _
_* - 1 _.f . C_r                           --"Le F.   15                 _                 _.i   _   1w 9.                S  Z _ ___
-    _96 4164                                                         l.nn1 _W a-Il _W -: 95_-t   -w aL  _- _-|  _-Ia               _
_-                  0 -   *_ .116  != _  _  _
-Olft l *16- 4W.   .99r-   tar.        ~      i -    14.n1i6.9                               9 4   6              Wa-3          lW
r-&_              *     _*- P_     _e     t    :             _       
nn        w -   ns.I W-  -  - ---  4-L.- MMM                                                  a- -....a C C-
n~ 16l~* 4W 9W-    .                                                        IV -   -t   _-6 9i    S                .       - -4W4r.
: ~  ~         v-                                            --  9 -   a
954W ~~~W66l1  916 02.    -   -, a    ,f 6                                                .9 5   a9.   P111w       91  4   6aa
g6i6 -3 .-64 ".
- ar-  V-4 -   . saI1
WS                                                                                       -.            -   11
l__mms _-W uEv                       - a- _      14W                                                    ___ __
IIL  Iha-                I    4*6             4   6a                       f44WS
Sc ~~~~1466 Ia-al 169516 9Scb6  C. S1* 4W   ~       ~       ~       w0-                           leaaaaivi I
-   Ia- IaL  a  lab  MI.   v     i*   16~~~o  1-7.1                            .V_~W~   mwG qllla
s  _ _lw              V         -_--"--E    s     z         V -Za                                          -moi     - a_n
_  .   1 r   1    .. _W   h1611                                             C|A _i.     4W.      -a-a          .S     9..
alga.                                                                                         wmrue, Zaa, ....mmaar qp_
.~~~a- ~~~4W.1a..  a-   -   S. -  a  a   -  -t ~ ~       ~      ~      8p- 'C            "aa, --M
-    -  -  .- -    -..aWIe a.a-~~~~~~                                       - W         n 516 -dw Sc
_a   _- -        _     .  3_ _516    _.4.66  16                                             * a- _  _  *_l    a- 16    -          _
-   a- .aaa-   S   s4   I6. La                                         a   a-l    9-         .   a-
na         la-U. 16 a-.          L_.|        _    .         _ 1               A-  s a         v _ _ _ _ _   _                   _
-_-    ~~~~~916~~~~~~*                                                                  S    at                  -     W        Sl _' *
9-6-I      - a.i P1 aia            19                8a.   C.16              tZ-b  -  P99-w  F a5-" UZ-  am  19.1. Bwsc  a. 4am
a4p- .           1116    -Sc   116S .-&_" .       a6-.                                      - UA96   IC    95  Sc--1       -.=:=          -
a aie. att ...i.                 _ .sa       r     _           _     - _ .._ nnien_ _- -                _
_ 6 -  -  - _6   Ii o-ala iap 1_ ZI _          _a-                       ICl~ 6991.           9    -.      . *-M "a-              4
9*. -  .1    a  -   545la IC Is  5-in~99.   -  -                   i.a161 .59.4W.
- _ * _u_j~              a  O. _.  -        -. 11__. _  .                 *ta  _<_            ~*__ _  191 -            I     1-   _
--      1 5    9i196 -aa-_a -,                                              t-      St  -t _  _I     S -  55*   *.6              -
a-a. i*" n: J etftts                                                      11I1a-.13   4WaI  -60   M Sc   -  Owea           5.4WI
.~~~~~~" =V- *Z_                        _1-1                                      _|-r  ___ _            __ BZ              _
-A              - I_ _  -t. -                                                   ___       -      5 - *_        -9.
-  _.       C-.9511    .16 _. _        *.9   4l3.  9.-&   -                   *            .16-I.-
.9.-__:.s__ 16. ..fl. .   _ t- ___  -w a-bE ..  .9...9.1...........                                   w t9  _ _   _   _ l a a91
_      _.    _rt_  Ira   - CIa- _1.4 _     1  5916*    I *1            ______   e   _                 |          s_ __
_w: ~ ~    ~          ~     L&O  to _- ,      ,,
ensls9w 9616.9161. - i -                   -                             IS a_  - _ . _-._                                      a -
__ ~~~~~~~~l4aaw "_ _f-                                       n      -   --M  Jo                _.R   IA _                       .6____  
ft. U    ~         -*            1a 116...Ad
=Sa-IC  _-t a-_                    P _  .                                                  *_ -_        _-_ a               _-  a       _ 
ma  I* Ma. W                      ._ l_,,___q    
-lI VI.  aaw               - a--P.M. 4W a-a             a- Z-Z                a                  __ I_    _   _  _              _       _    -
ew_        INemar IINIZ-   _        _. "M         __ lo                    _e_ WJM .MM                    -           
hmai___A mn-t."  at.u_t"                                     2___   .s_ _ _                      St__
amse                  p- **-.a~~~a                                                             seS        W
____ V____, _d_~~Pffaa___-                                                 ll-W-w __  b"M_414M                        wlaPW
Cm  54W   95..   5   5   .4 -fe. tw  -1 lau          9-   fir a5--P  'W,-6-1 la, Wa-8   fm no
56L          _ ~96    W .                                                                      _W      _     _ -
,            aaLz, '      -  _~   _*q  - _-      __-                                        .r  lz _S                      S -16 _
a  n..              _    _-    -~  a sais   tab va-a                        fl_ -                  p   _   _       _-_  _6 __
5                                                                        Isa-  -    -   .in..ae9H.            nsa-         gm.         
- .1 .954-elsa a- 1"a -L ftgO
a.         ' .  _,    _  -  _"   N.            _         -n  t                              _                                      .       l
Q ff                      _"Z,                                                    i    S   a 9- C_
__   _  __   __                          _ a- -- .   I                                                       - :_   54        9 _r        a-_=
t_____  -  z.9i                            -                     _                    1.j.s....      .....  9.. 10, 'a   156  399 I_. _   I_ 
_I-S   *_~ 90  511.  _1                     *11       - _W                  _                  o~ 1-1 r__ F      .  Wa. _5 _
up4-9         ~44.SI.                    P"ta    -g1
_ s ,       _a- a  _  l    1      . W. _                n   _    _ _ _ _  __ _
_..aIe   -saC   _S                 . u..sa   _         I_                     15.164   316 a-    a-aa                     W       
_ U   a-.16-t. _54   _4  169.                              _        _           591511
~I  6W1   a _r lea  a-_  16 _ea                 6.,
aS-  _ _- a..  a m             na _-  a-i. _a,w                          _                  *                           _-   _ _s. _
.Ia. t.16.3  a-  In  .9_W] a            - -_Sc   _6   _a                                 aw_ S     a-    ar-             f i_| (_4       _ W_ 
_. _                                                                             a -_.-
K-_ a- 1.  _-  -_ a-  9-35. a  a-.|    __  _ aba                               a--             -wS              
_     .W   _-  1,_  Ia   IC    nasa   11.b  _61      _   ..........................a- ........   _..   S c_               _   . a   _.. - n s
-e _WI                                                                                   9164W              -               -S                   
_c11.1.5  Na  951-a-pu  Sc_  _ a_r     _  . -
as a  a _! -S  *_-- -Im  9116 *6.  at T_.a.
_ pa. 691  _91 19   _9.-I.                       4_W __61* -
a  -1  99L .J.ln-J   .9.151.-                            _ .                                                      9_  i,hI        C  *1.1
_  _   pI, _inO  119161 o.In_  as. __-    __Wh   Is9 1                                                                l16CI
_F _We 5 4W959a .__ _s  ..             S  _  _ _s._ _
.15.16        19 a*I_la.99C4                        9 _6a.



ARMU I
Page 4 of 5 pages
-25 -
INDONESIA.- KCONC  ICT8
Amount
(tillion USS at                         Annual growth rate (C) /s
current prices)                          Actual                        Estimmtd projected
Indicator                         1962         1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1960  1981  1962  1983  1984  1985
EUtIOKAL AZ SM
Gross domestic product lb       90,216        5.0   6.9   8.9   7.7   6.3   9.9   7.9  -0.1   4.5   5.5   4.7
Agricalture                   23.703       0.0   4.7   1.3   5.2   3.9    5.2   4.9   1.8   3.0   3.5   2.0
Industry                      346638        5.6  11.1  14.2   8.7   7.1  12.5   8.5  -6.9   5.6   8.1   5.3
Services                      31.J75       10.1   5.9  1Z.5   9.2   7.7  11.8   9.8   5.5   4.3   4.2   1.8
Consimption                     73.377       6.4   7.9   5.6   8.9  13.6  13.1  15.8   3.2   0.5   3.9   3.0
Cross   est ent                 20,373       14.6   6.0  16.0  15.0   4.4  17.7  11.1  13.0  -5.4   4.0   1.0
Ezxport of 8FS                 20 189      -2.4  17.0   9.5   1.0  -0_1  -5.7  -2.A  -12.0  13.9   6.4   4.8
TIports of G8FS                 23.723      1.7  16.8   4.4  12.7  22.5  16.9  27.1  2z9  -7.4              -  -1.3
Cross national savings          13.877     -16.3  14.2  30.2 -17.5  62.5  33.2  -20.0 -226   14.6   9.8   5.0
PRICES
CDP deflator C1973  109)                      166   190   214   238   3L5   407   448   50    585   644   695
Exchange race                                415   415   415   442   623   627   632   661   910
Share of GDP at market prce- (:Z)
(at current prices)                      Averam4   annual increase (C) la
190   1970   1975  1960  1965  1990         1960-70  1970-75  1975-60   1980-65  1965-90
Gross domestic product        100   100   100   100   100   100            3.9       8.4      7.4       4.4       4.9
Agriculture                  54    47    32    25    25    23            2.7       4.1      3.3       3.4       3.7
Industry                     14    18    34    43    39    40  -    5.2           12.0      9.8       3.7       5.2
Services                     32    35    35    32    36    37            4.8       9.7      9.5       5.9       5.5
Consumption                  91    89    79    71    74    73            4.1       8.4      9.2       4.7       4.8
Gross investe n               8    14    20    Z1    22    22            4.8      1B.3      12.2      6.4       5.4
Ezpo'.zts ofQGFS             13    13    23    31    Z?    26            3.6       9.2      2.9       1.8       4.4
Tmports of QNFS             -13   -16   -22   -22   -i    -21            3.2      22.1     14.0       3.3       4.1
Gross national savings        8      9     17    26    22    23          6.1      23.1      14.2      1.5       5.8
As Z of GDP
1960             1970              1975             1980              192Z
PUELIC FASC RE
Current r                                  11.7             10.1              17.4             22.5              20.8
Current expenditures                       14.0              8.4               9.9             12.B              13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                -2.3              +1.6              +7.5             +9.7              +7.7
Capital expenditure                        n.a.              5.0              11.3             13.0               6.0
ForeLgn financing                          0.2               3.5               3.7              3.3               0.3
1960-70        1970-75         1975-80        1980-85         1985-90
OTHER IRDICATORS
Annual CML growth race ()                        4.5             7.6             7.1           4.5             5.0
Annual CGP per capita growth rate (:)            2.4             5.1             4.7           2.4             2.8
Annual energy cousnption growth rate (1)         2.2            11.2            11.0            1.Sld          4.9
1COR                                             2.2             2.2             3.3           5.3             4.4
Marginal savings rate                            0.30            0.48            0.28          0.28Ue          0.30/e
Import elastic':-y -                             1.2             2.8            0.84           0.75            0.86
la At constant 1973 prices for 1975-81. and 1981 prices for 1982-85.
7ii At market prices.
T;W Central Covernmelt only. on an April-to-Msrch fiscal year basis.
7TT 1981-85.
Te For the last year of the perlod.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 26. 1984



population   :  52. willeiam 68-1962)
GNP par Capita: USS5S5  (1962 e_tImae                      - 26-                                   A3    I
Paw 5 of 5 pages
isD08s,A - BALA= oF WAlNUTS AM UTEUAL t.-T*L AND  t
(In3llic  at cc . r        prices
_ _ _ _   _       _Estimated Pyned
1977    1978    1979    960    1961    1982   153    IYSS          96zS    1990
8ALA5CtOF PArtS/A
1. 1orts              S0.361  11,353  18,510  22.885  22.994  186637  19.73O  21.238  2'696   ".1.32
C-) oil an L   (SrEss)          7_354   7374   12,360  17,297  1162    14.763  14560  15.422   15,942  31.026
(b)    U357   3.,979   6.j7                               5,57   4.170   3.89   5.170   5.816   6S756  13,60
2. IqPotte (Including net on)    -10.686 -11.493 -13.205 -17.589 -Z2_.72 -2.341 -19.973 -20,66Y   -' 1957 -39t114
(a) (XI sec1 r                 -2.9   -3.364  -2,960  -4.050  -5.407  -4.82  -4.70   -4.676  -4'801  -9.035
Cb) VonEl imps                 -7.241  -7,5_3  -9.023 -11,37 -14.361 -15.824 -13.S63  -14.364  -15.86  -28a,S20
cc) IFS onet)                    -536    -586  -1.23J  -1.702  -2,404  -1.715 -1.400  -1.,09  -1.2    -1.559
I. Nesomrce balance                   175    -140   5,30      5,296     422  -3,703   -263       569      7_1   6.,1S
4. Factor sevces                     -665  -1.015  -3.106   -3.165  -3.,4    -3,705 -4.080  -4,360  -c.823  -8*600
(a) Interet pcblic debc          -    4 8I _15    -635    -724    -977  -1I161 -1.179  -1.432  -1.664  -2,396
Cb) Other (seC)                   424    -530  -2.471  -2.41   -2,465  -2,544  -2.901  -2.929   -3.159  -6*010
5. Oapttat   ats                      66       *6       52      76       67      105     95      100      1;0     ISO
6. Balane w currenr accr             -624  -1,109   2,251   2_207  -2.953  -7.303 -4,228  -3,691  -3.972  -2.540
7J  MIrect foceigm nvestmen           285     271      217      140     142      311    234      400      SX      SO0
S. tublic  14 LT loos
(a) Disbursmet                  1.956   1.63t    1.935   2.6:4  2.566   4.250  4.991    5.108   Sj.16   6.120
(b1  Amortizattol                -625    0977  -1.335       987  -1.001  -1.148 -1.541  -1,937  -2.231    4,23:
Cc) Net disbursements           1.131     660      604   i.=77    1.56S   3.102   3,450   3,171   2.955    1.886
9. Otber capital (net)              -140      S-   -1.3S2  -1.48S       2SS      540  2_223      -49      638     521
1-0 oang  in reser.es C- Increase)   -65t    -706  -1,690  -2,736        968   3.350 -1,679        71    -121    -67
11. get offlcial reserves            2.21    2,916   4.606   7,342   6,354    3.004   4,683   4,612   4733    5.660
Reerves In sasthe of  t=0ol
Import.s  SFS                   3.4     4.3      5.4      6.5     4.4      2.1    3.7      3.5      3.3     2.3
mIussrsmda Item.
Net foceigs assets of the banking
evstes_b                             -       -   6.906  10.77   11.1    6.321   R.355   6,2e4   8.405   9.311
Tol       .  Le In ntus of _1mI
-Ports 4. SFS                      3.4     4.3    68         9.6     7.8      *.3    6.6      6.3      S_9     3.7
ErEAL CAPTAL ASO DEBrfe
Cross Disbursemotrs                1.956   2.205    1.865   2.536   2,566   4,251
Goncesslonal Lags                    442     484      433      659     792      669
Bilateral                        361     448      39Y      611     718    S7
MA                                49      29       30   -  42       69       78
Other                             12        6       5        6       5        4
%ouacnceeslonal tIans              1_514   I.721 l           1.858    1_774    3,582
OftlcIal export credits            218      271      61       4       Ib5     485
ORD                                191      168     I99      331     314      505
Otber multilateral                    16       12      46       52      85      126
PrLwate-source                     1.089   1.270    1.126   1.4A9    1.210    2.466
External Debt
Debt cutatandiag and disbursed2d 11.658   13,107   13.234   14.882  15 737  18.A26
.zffletal-source               7.077   8.390   8.434   9.400  10.1s4  11.129
Privte re                      4.583   4J717  4*799    5.482   5.623   7.297
dlabuarsed debt                  f.475   5,639   7.932   9. 54  11.35S4  12.435
ebt Service
Total servIce payments           1.262  2.06 2   2.100    1.772   1.977   2.308
Imterust                         441      514     771      819     977    1.160
Payments an X of exportvel        11.6    18.2    11.3       7.7      8.6    12.4
A"erge Turerest Rate an New Loans
(1)                                6.3      7.6     6.6      8.2     8.6      9.4
Offtclal-source                    5.6      4.6     5.3      5.5      7.9     9.0
Priests-source                     8.6    10.2      8.6    12.3       9.2     9.7
Averae Ibturity of Se1 Touns
(Ters)                            20.5    18.8    18.6    18.6    15.2    15.0
Offtei l-s_urce                   23.8    30-1    24.8    24.4    20.8    20.6
Ptivet_sorce                       9.1      8.7    11.0      9.9    10.6    10.8
ebturity structure of debt ostatding                                             s _ of det outtandng as- end of 15982
neturittee due  Ithin 5 yers                                                                     40
fbturttlis due wIthin l yers                                                                    69
Interest structure *f debt outstwudIa
Interest due withIn first year                                                                  5.7
/a On s AWril-te-freb fical yer bsi.
T7  Includes foreI  assets of depoelt ouey beans is additi on to official reserv.
7r  ZExclud  private nongaranceted Ins.
7   A ed of period.
7   Oil exports treated on gros baeis.                                           Et Atsi and Pacific Raton
Ap-ril 26. 19SF



- 27 -
ANNEK II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BAMK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1984) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number  Year              Purpose                         Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Nineteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully d,sbursed 876.0   544.1
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                   -      14.6       3.4
'100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                             65.0       -        5.0
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping           13.0       -        0.9
1237  1976   Fourth Education                            37.0        -        2.6
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                           33.0       -        4.6
1337  1977   Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0        -        2.3
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                 116.0       -       21.4
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education             19.0       -        3.5
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                            63.0       -       19.7
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                             35.0       -        2.9
1472  1977   Second Population                            24.5       -        6.0
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education                         15.0.      -        2.2
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I            65.0       -       18.2
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                94.0       -       25.8
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                   -      40.0       7.2
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                            140.0       -       86.3
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0       -        8.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                   -      30.0       2.1
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallbolders II             65.0       -       40.3
869  1979   Polytechnic                                    -      49.0      18.8
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                           77.0       -       37.9
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                      54.0       -       17.3
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                     -      10.0       7.1
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.0        -       26.5
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                 42.0       -        9.7
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                               123.2       -       55.8
1703  1979   Fourth BAPUIDO                               50.0       -        3.4
919  1979   Transmigration II                              -      67.0       8.3
1707  1979   Transmigration II                            90.0       -       8'.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                175.0       -       51.5
1709  1979   Second Water Supply                          36.0       -       14.7
946  1980   Yogyekarta Rural Development                   -      12.0       7.9
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III            99.0       -       50.2
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                 -      45.0      30.0
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 28 -
AN11 II
Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                             Amount
Credit Fiscal                                              (less c    lo)
Nuber  Year              Purpose                        Bank    IDA  Undisbarsed
995  1980  Fifteenth Irrigation                          -      45.0      22.8
996  1980  National Agriculture Extension II             -      42.0      34.6
1811  1980  Fourteenth Irrgation                       116.0       -       72.2
1835  1980  Nucleus Estate & Snallholders IV            42.0       -       33.3
1840  1980  National Agricultural Research              35.0       -       35.0
1014  1980  National Agricultural Research                -      30.0      14.1
I.69  1980  Third Population                            35.0       -       27.0
1872  1980  Ninth Power                                253.0       -      122.3
1898 1981  Smallholder Coconut Development              46.0       -       35.6
1904  1981  University Development                      45.0       -       41.9
L950  1981  Tenth Power                                250.0       -       87.8
1958  1981  Swamp Reclamation                           22.0       -       15.3
1972  1981  Fourth Urban Development                    43.0       -       32.2
2007  1981  Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V          161.0       -      130.9
2011  1981  Second Small Enterprise Development        106.0       -       13.9
2049  1982  Jakarte-CLkampek Highway                    85.0       -       80.1
2056  1982  Eleventh Power                             170.0       -      127.0
2066  1982   Second Seeds                               15.0       -       14.5
2079  1982  Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                 185.0       -      132.5
2083  1982  Rural Roads Development                    100.0       -       76.3
2101  1982  Second Teacher Training                     80.0       -       79.6
2102  1982   Second Textbook                            25.0       -       25.0
2118  1982  Sixteenth Irrigation                        37.0       -       30.2
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0       -       60.8
2120  1982  National Fertilizer Distribution            66.0       -       59.5
2126  1982  Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI              68.1       -       65.9
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering               25.0       -       23.3
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                   5.5       -        4.6
Engineering Project
2214  1983  Twelfth Power                              300.0       -      286.5
2232  1983  Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII          154.6       -      152.3
2235  1983  Provincial Health                           27.0       -       26.6
2236  1983  Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation               22.4       -       22.2
2248  1983  Transmigration III                         101.0       -       87.8
2258  1983  PubLic Works Manpower Development           30.0       -       29D8
Project
2275  1983  East Java witte- %upply T                   30.6       -       30.5
2277  1983  BAPINO W                                   208.9       -      195.8
2288  1983  Transmigration IV                           63.5       -       62.6
2290  1983  Seco-A Pnlytec'h't-                        '07.4       -      107.1



- 29 -
ARNEM II
Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              A-oumt
Credit Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number  Year              Purpose                        Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power                           279.0       -      277.5
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training                  63.3       -       63.1
.-      2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Suallholder Sugar           79.2       -       75.8
2355  1984   Second Non-Formal Education                 43.0       -       42.9
2375  1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Ia             89.0       -       89.0
Total Bank loans and IDA credits         6,204.1   928.7
Of vhich has been repaid                  -292.7   -11.3
Total now outstanding                    5.911.4    917.4
Amount sold to third party       28.2
Amount repaid by third party   -28.2        -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b         5,911.4    917.4
Total undisbursed                        3,581.2    153.3  3.734.5
/a  Not yet effective.
/b  Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STAZEMN OF IFC IVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                            Type of          Loan   Equity   Total
year        Obligor              business         -     (US$ uillion) -
1971  P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement            10.6     2.5      13.1
1971  P.T. Unitex                Textiles          2.5      0.8       3.3
1971  P.T. Prizatexco Indonesia Textiles           2.0      0.5       2.5
1971  P.T. Kabel Indonesia       Cable             2.8      0.4       3.2
1972  P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.       Textiles           4.5      1.5       6.0
1973  P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel   Tourism            9.8      1.6      11.4
1973  P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement            5.4      0.7       6.1
1974  P.T. Primatexco Indonesia Textiles           2.0      0.3       2.3
1974  P.T. Monsanto Pan          Electronics       0.9       -        0.9
1974  P.T. PDFCI                 Devel. Fin. Co.    -       0.5       0.5
1974  P.T. Kamaltex              Textiles           2.4     0.6       3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong       Cement            5.0      1.5       6.5
1976  P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement             -       1.1       1.1
1977  P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.       Textiles           0.4       -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex             Textiles           1.3     0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon              Textiles          0.9       -        0.9
1980  P.T. Papan Sejahtera       Capital Market    4.0       L.2      5.2
1980  P.T. Indo American
Industries         Glass Dinnerware  11.1      0.9      12.0
1980  P.T. Semen AndalAs         Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material       48.0      5.0      53.0
1982  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market    4.0      0.3       4.3
1984  P.T. Semen Cibinong        Cement            25.0      -       25.0
Total gross commitments                    142.6    19.6    162.2
Less: sold or repaid and cancelled         100.8     6.5    107.3
Total held by IFC                           41.8    13.1      54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion) 8.0              8.0



- 31 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project : Two years
(b)  Project prepared by               : Government and USAID
(c)  First presented to the Bank       : August 1983
(d)  Preparation Mission               : Project prepared by USAID staff
in Jakarta assisted by consult-
ants and two preparation
missions by one Bank staff
member.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission    : Project appraised by USAID
staff as project components
vere prepared.
(f)  Completion of Negotiations        : September 1984
(g)  Planned Effectiveness             : April 1985      -
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
None.



'   UAL AY5iA  *RhJES J                     -  -~PHILPPINES
MAASA BRUNI (
;XsSI"''A E  KLiMsAWA 5-.1 1lm
GAPORL  ~~~~~_7UP'
_1                    -SULAWE'                     r
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
jAWALI i               _;_-     -              L.
*-,    A:PEAC         TIMOR
_ _A UbTRAUA
Thi -M hgs boa? i',psad by
The Wald BW*s sbE ezd-*
for VW cmwaaice of Ir
dss ne s 0d_ to e   ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pootq
randws MW is owdusm* for Pw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ (ranon
NdWWimS of The MW B-P 
Ci-_ah  The     _ dw   /ho
use a,S bsxurd shoes sJEP 
Cn VW Pnao do n2t sat an Ow             X,-
ott of TlwB  he Rw  -iw  w -N\
wpow cn VW\  ko ~sm
ofd ft-fi, or ay- u.Rrniy  
_mwsernot or accedme ofEN
Ach~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Temangg    >     f     <    e    -    t    -   atoBA  A1
: - :'S: - i': A f ' t-a ]  ---- -_-
Taerang5t /                             el8 Y |AgI
,   Sf  (i-tasa~~~~~~~~Sr k           =
y   !\   Kl w    /          FlLoharp                             tan           ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Krago11
|Pun40reo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pl~ Ga 6}



IBRD  18 190
7o  I3-                     APRIL 1984
INDONESIA
FARMING AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
JAWA
SUJSTAINABLE UPLAND FARMING SYSTEMS PILOT PROJECT AREAS (SUFS)
ROADS
-      - RAILWAYS
/        -  DAMS AND RESERVOIRS
KABUPATEN (DISTRICTI BOUNDARIES
-  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-. -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
O    20   40    60   80
KILOMETERS     I               It
MILES      I 
0   10  20  30  4    560
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RBL .,.l
S-q dngcAA         SAJ.jmpg
'J'111l6S   /  A                \j  >ua m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P08L1V6,
*Koledawir       q
*Ta,igungunung     Pungulhem.
~~~~I- Paga   Do> /P ,J aiw
I     St IrAR       Bmncngun   * 'ogalc   Dampit
S                   ~~~~~~Donomul yo 
*    *Bontur
5umbermanjing
ii?33
111                       f--. T3






