Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14744
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2474-IND)
JUNE 29, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Rupiah (Rp)
June 1986 USSLI   Rp 1 100
June 1993 USSI = Rp 2,074
Annual Average Exchange Rates of Rupiah to US$1
1987    1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
1,644    1,686    1,770    1,843    2,020    2,020    2,050
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD           - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development of the Indonesian
Ministry of Agriculture
BPPIREC        - Rural Extension Center
BANGDA         - Directorate General for Regional Development of the Indonesian
Ministry of Home Affairs
BAPPENAS    - National Development Planning Board
BAPPEDA        - Provincial and Kabupaten Development Planrning Boards
CAMAT          - Subdistrict Administrator
CAR            - Conservation Access Roads
DEMPLOT        - Project Demonstration Plot (10 hectares)
DAMPAK         - Project Expansion Area (variable area)
DESA           - Village
EXSEC          - Executive Secretariat
FSR            - Farming Systems Research
GOI            - Government of Indonesia
HRD            - Human Resources Development
IBRD           - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Joss           - Joint Office Support Staff
INPRES         - Development Assistance to Provinces and Kabupatens by Instruction
of the President
KABUPATEN   - District
KECA.MATAN  - Subdistrict
MIS            - Management Information System
MOA            - Ministry of Agriculture
MSOHA          - Ministry of Home Affairs
NGO            - Non-Government Organization
PCO            - Provincial Project Coordination Office
PIF            - Project Irnovation Fund
PMU            - Kabupaten Project Management Unit
PPL            - Field Extension Worker
REL            - Research-Extension Linkages
SBRLKT         - The Subcenter for Land Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation,
Indonesian Department of Forestry
SELANI         - East Java NGO Alley Cropping and Intensified Extension SUFS
Experiment
SUFS           - Sustainable Upland Farming Systems
TSL            - Tolerable Soil Loss
UACP           - Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project
USAID          - United States Agency for International Development
USDA/SCS       - United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Ofrice of the Director-General                                       June 29, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project (Loan 2474-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Indonesia-Upland Agriculture
and Conservation project (Loan 2474-IND, approved in FY85), prepared by the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This project was designed to develop sustainable and ecologically sound upland farming
systems, which are critical for the welfare of many upland communities in Indonesia. Impact
studies conducted by the lead donor, the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), in the project areas show that soil erosion had been significantly reduced and food crop
production considerably increased by project completion. Subsequent area development and
watershed management projects supported by the Bank in other areas are now making use of the
conservation and farming technologies that were developed during this project. The program of
research and advice on sustainable agriculture started by the project is being continued with
funding from the national and local governments.
Bank supervision was generally satisfactory, although less frequent than normal during the
first four difficult years of project implementation. The implementation of the project started
shakily but improved markedly following the preparation of a detailed work plan by the team of
consultants retained by USAID for the mid-term review. Bank supervision also improved during
the latter half of the project. At completion, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory with
benefits that are likely to be sustainable, given the national conservation strategy of the
Government and its Regreening Program. Institutional development is rated as substantial.
The PCR provides a comprehensive account of the project. The USAID provided an
unusually large amount of technical assistance and some borrower staff acquired important skills
through the project. Future improvements in the sustainability of farming will depend on the staff
trained under the project-particularly those who work for the provincial and local administrations-
being able to apply their new skills.
An audit is planned and a later Impact Evaluation is recommended.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2474-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface        ..........................................                                                   i
Evaluation Summary   ...................................                                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity   .................................                                            1
Background   ...................................                                                1
Project Objectives and Description   .....................                                     2
Project Design and Organization   ......................                                        3
Implementation Experience  ..........................    4
Project Results   .................................    7
Project Sustainability    .............................    10
Bank Performance ...............................  11
Borrower's Performance   ...........................    12
Project Relationships .. ............................   12
Consulting Services   .........  .                 .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .     .    12
Lessons Learned   .........  ..  .                 ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .    .    15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction   ...........  ..  .                ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..     .    17
Project Objectives .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Project Design and Components  .......  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    18
Project Implementation ............................  18
Project Results    . . ...............................   19
Project Sustainability  ..        ...........................   22
Bank and USAID  Performance   .......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    22
Borrower's Performance   ...........................   23
Consulting Services   .........  .                 .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .     .   23
Lessons Learned   ..........  .                  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .    .   24
Conclusions  ...........  ..  .                  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..     .   24
Recommendations   .........  ..  .                   .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .    24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                      l



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................  26
2. Project Timetable.27
3. Loan Disbursements.27
4. Project Implementation - Key Indicators.28
5. Project Cost and Financing .29
6. Bank and USAID Loan Amendments .31
7. Project Results  ...............................   32
8. Status of Loan Covenants .........................  38
9. Use of Bank Resources  ..........................   39
ANNEXES
1. Project Design Summary  .........................  41
2. List of Reports and Studies ........................  48
MAP: IBRD No. 18190



- i -
INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2474-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project (UACP) in Indonesia, for which a Bank Loan (2474-IND) of
US$11.3 million was approved on October 30, 1984 to cofinance certain project activities.
The project was identified and appraised by USAID, who administered the loan and
provided US$18.9 million (US$5.0 million as Grant and US$13.9 million as Loan). The
remaining US$20.0 million was to be financed by GOI. The USAID part of the project
closed two years behind schedule on June 30, 1993. The Bank Loan was closed one year
behind schedule on September 30, 1993. With a loan cancellation of US$1.08 million,
actual Bank disbursement for UACP activities amounted to US$10.22, representing 90
percent of the original loan amount. Total project expenditures amounted to US$40.03 as
against US$50.24 estimated at appraisal.
The PCR, prepared by Bank staff which carried out the last supervision of
the UACP project in September 1993, is based on the Appraisal Report prepared by
USAID, various Supervision Reports, Consultant Reports, Project Progress Reports and
other relevant documents and correspondence. It also draws heavily on the Project
Completion Reports prepared by USAID and GOI, and discussions with key Government
officials responsible for project implementation. USAID, as lead donor, took major
responsibility for project supervision and loan administration.






- 11 -
INDONESIA
UPLANDS AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2474-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The objective of the project, as stated in the USAID Project Document, was
to increase farmers' production and incomes in the densely populated upland areas of Java
while minimizing soil erosion. IJSAID administered the project. The project's main
purpose was to develop alternative approaches to conservation farming through research,
extension and training, to expand and improve institutional capacities, primarily at
provincial, district and farm  levels, to diffuse improved farming systems, farm
technologies, and soil and water management. Project components consisted of Farming
Systems Research (FSR); Sustainable Upland Farming Systems (SUFS), comprising
nurseries, demonstration plots, and expansion areas (Dampak); Human Resources
Development (HRD) and training of GOI staff, community leaders and farmers;
Conservation Access Roads (CAR) to facilitate delivery of inputs and services and
marketing of farm produce in the conservation farming areas; and a Project Innovation
Fund (PIF) to provide funds for small pilot projects and initiatives not otherwise covered
under the project. In addition, semi-detailed soil maps were prepared for the project areas.
Implementation Experience
2.          The Bank loan became effective in May 1985.  However, project
implementation began in 1984 in the Upper Brantas (East Java) and Jratunseluna (Central
Java) watersheds with some preliminary activities financed by the lead co-financier
USAID. Project implementation and disbursements in the early years were extremely slow
due to a number of administrative and technical reasons, including rigid GOI procedures
for funding, cumbersome USAID procedures for disbursing funds to GOI, and lack of
coordination between implementing agencies, and between project components.
Uncoordinated development between FSR and the establishment of SUFS sites, consisting
of large scale demonstrations and expansion areas was a key implementation issue. Early
assessments concluded that much of the initial FSR was irrelevant to the project and that
technological options for establishing SUFS were inadequate. Organizational changes
introduced by the project, particularly the full involvement and participation of local
government and the introduction of unified budgeting and management, also took time to
consolidate. Delays were experienced in Bank loan disbursement due to differences in
USAID and Bank procedures.



- iii -
3.           The project gradually gained momentum as constraints were overcome but
it was not until a mid-term evaluation carried out by USAID with Bank staff as observers
that changes were introduced that significantly increased the effectiveness of project
implementation. The most important outcome of the mid-term review was the integration
of FSR activities with SUFS pilot projects. Changes in USAID reimbursement procedures
also resulted in a much faster rate of disbursement of Bank loan funds. A two-year project
extension by USAID and a one-year extension of the Bank loan enabled the project to
reach (or exceed) most of its objectives and targets and to considerably increase its outputs
and effectiveness. Project experience was recorded in a number of impact studies and
other reports and disseminated and discussed at a number of national and international
workshops.
4.           USAID funding of the project was completed on June 30 1993, but it
continued to administer Bank loan funds until the closing date of the Bank loan on
September 30, 1993. Final disbursement of Bank loan funds totaled US$10.22 million.
US$1.08 million of Bank loan funds were canceled. Actual total project cost was US$40.0
as against US$50.2 million as estimated at appraisal.
Project Results
5.           As indicated above, most physical targets of the projects were achieved
and/or exceeded. Some of the major achievements of the project include the establishment
of a decentralized and unified planning, management and budgetary system; the
development of a field research laboratory and 15 research sites; the establishment of 78
demonstration plots and a total SUFS area of about 21,000 ha (including some 240
nurseries); training of about 20,000 farmers, 2,000 local government staff, about 42 MS
and one PHD candidate, and 100 diploma level extension workers; the completion of 613
km of access roads; the establishment of a computerized management information system;
and the completion of a number of detailed impact studies. The project innovation fund,
however, turned out to be unsuccessful and the funds were largely diverted into training
and study tours.
6.           Technologically, the most significant achievement was the widespread
introduction of permanent grass cover and livestock to stabilize the soil and increase and
stabilize farmer incomes. Institutionally, decentralized planning and implementation, and
the empowerment of local government (particularly level Il) for unified budgeting and
management under coordination of BAPPEDA  has given good results.  Regional
authorities would like to continue with these improved practices. Bank assistance under
the National Watershed Conservation and Management Project will help to ensure
sustainability of the successful initiatives of UACP.
Sustainability
7.           Despite the difficulties in implementation experienced in the early years, the
project's development objectives were largely met. While the cost was high and immediate
project impact may not appear that significant, the payoff can be expected in the longer
term mainly as a result of the human resource and institutional development. To ensure
sustainability of actions initiated under the project it will be important to provide a wider



- iv -
forum for the people trained under the project to apply their knowledge and continue the
process of refining approaches to upland development. This can be provided in additional
watershed and regional development projects that GOI is interested in implementing, and
in GOI's own programs in the so-called critical areas. The project appears sustainable
provided funding is available and extension is provided. The prospects for these are
promising. Local governments involved in the project are taking steps to continue and
expand activities initiated under the project with their own resources. There is evidence
of continued availability and use of farm credit and revolving funds, the regreening
program is becoming more effective, AARD is continuing to institutionalize and strengthen
FSR and technology transfer, and local governments are allocating budgets to continue
activities initiated under the project. Extension services are going through some turmoil
because of the too rapid decentralization but GOI has started to address the problems.
Local governments, in both Central and East Java have introduced "models" of upland
development based on lessons learned from UACP and the activities are being expanded
to four additional districts in Central and five in East Java provinces. Funds are available
from "on-top" local funds, and from the Regreening Program. Local officials expect the
improvements from UACP to be included in the Regreening Program for the longer term.
8.           The models being considered at provincial and kabupaten levels, besides
including successful initiatives of UACP (including FSR), are based on increased
community and NGO participation (creating greater awareness and a feeling that they are
"master of their own fate"), the provision of credit, and the encouragement of
"symbiotic"" relationships between small farmers and commercial enterprise in
agribusiness ventures such as larger-scale cattle fattening.  In Central Java, local
government is ensuring that FSR will be maintained by transferring the facilities of the
field laboratory at Ungaran to AARD for a period of 25 years and providing some of the
funding for the research program from the local budget. The integration of government
agencies at different levels which UACP helped develop is being incorporated in the
budgetary system by maintaining a unified budgeting and management approach.  The
increased community participation envisaged will require new policies and approaches and
support from NGO type training, with extension aimed at farm families rather than
farmers.
Lessons and Findings
9.           Some of the main lessons learned from the UACP experience are listed
below.
(a)   Sustainable upland farming is a long-term objective to be achieved by
continuous, step-wise action backed by appropriate policies;
(b)   Successful upland (watershed) development, planning and management
requires a decentralized approach with full involvement of local government
and local technical agencies, and greater participation of local communities
than has been achieved so far;



- v -
(c)    FSR needs to be further diversified and based on identified local farmer
needs, and FSR and SUFS sites need to be fully integrated to provide
effective research-extension-farmer linkages;
(d)   Subsidies are required in the initial stages of introducing improved upland
farming practices and the subsequent availability of credit is crucial to the
sustainability of improved practices. Farmers tend to revert to traditional
practices if credit and other services are not maintained, thus endangering
sustainability. The use of revolving funds managed by farmers groups, as
successfully introduced in Wonogiri, should be studied and wider applied;
(e)    Adequate extension coverage, fully integrated and in close association with
FSR, is crucial to the rapid adoption of improved conservation farming
techniques. Planning and implementation of integrated extension programs
was until recently centered on the Rural Extension Centers and worked
effectively. As a result of recent reorganization many PPLs now have
returned to their respective Dinas and much of the integration has been lost
and extension has become less effective. The present situation should be
urgently reviewed by MOA in order to restore extension services to their
earlier effectiveness,
(f)    FSR, initially introduced technologies which were too expensive or too
difficult for farmers to apply. Emphasis should be on simple, inexpensive
vegetative measures, and on providing farmers, through extension, with a
range of options which they can apply according to needs and resources;
(g)   Farmers' incomes cannot be significantly increased through conservation
farming systems based on food crops only. To improve income and cash
flow, farm enterprises need to be diversified with the introduction of higher
value cash groups and, particularly, livestock. Community forests should
include fruit and other industrial trees. In the project area the introduction
of permanent grass cover and livestock, either for fattening or milk
production, and greater emphasis on horticultural crops and vegetables have
been the most successful actions in stabilizing the land and increasing
farmer income;
(h)   To minimize resource degradation, off-farm employment opportunities need
to be created to reduce the dependence on income from intensive use of
uplands which have limited productive potential even with improved
technology;
(i)    FSR, which till now has only been supported as special project activities,
should be institutionalized within the national research system with wider
emphasis on regional and localized farming systems research;
(j)   Improved conservation farming techniques reduced soil erosion in the
project area from 40 to 60 percent but erosion was still above the limits of
tolerable soil loss. Additional measures, such as minimum tillage and



- vi -
residue management could reduce soil losses further and are necessary to
ensure ultimate sustainability; and
(k)    Research results showed that vetiver grass is the most effective vegetative
barrier in the natural formation of terraces.






INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2474-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REvIEW FROM BANK'S PERspEcTivE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name           Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project
Loan Number            2474-IND
RVP Unit               East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country                Republic of Indonesia
Subsector              Upland Agriculture
2.    Background
2.1         Over the last several decades, soil erosion has reached massive proportions
in Indonesia, particularly on Java, where some 2.3 million hectares of uplands have severe
problems of low agricultural productivity. Recorded soil erosion rates in these upland
areas range between 90 and 170 tons per hectare annually. With population densities of
more than 1,000 persons per square kilometer in some areas, and still growing, increasing
areas of upland are being intensively cultivated, often with inappropriate farming practices,
thereby further decreasing the agricultural productivity of those areas. The incomes of
subsistence farmers in these areas can be improved and/or stabilized only by better soil and
water conservation.
2.2         The degradation of natural resources in the watersheds of Java has,
therefore, long been a major concern of GOI. Since the 1960s, increasing efforts to
protect natural resources and conserve soil as part of watershed management and regional
development have been carried out through the "Regreening Program", aimed mainly at
reforestation, and the establishment of pilot projects and other related activities. In the
early 1980s erosion control and watershed management were already important national
priorities, especially on densely populated Java.  The 'Regreening Program" was
generally well-funded but poorly managed. In 1982, $140 million were committed to
finance field operations and over 6,000 extension workers and staff were responsible for
executing the program in 35 watersheds throughout Indonesia. The regular program
budget was also supplemented by appropriations to support additional donor-assisted
projects, most of which were a series of pilot projects and studies supported by
UNDP/FAO and USAID.



- 2 -
2.3          The project was identified by the USAID in the course of a watershed
assessment study conducted in 1983. It was prepared by a joint USAID-GOI team with
active participation by a Bank staff member. Experiences from the USAID-assisted
Citanduy Watershed Project, work initiated in 1972 by FAO in the Solo Watershed
Development Project, and the findings of the Watershed Assessment Report provided the
technical and institutional basis for implementing the project in two critically affected
watersheds. The loan was administered by USAID and its staff were responsible for
procurement and disbursement. The Bank and USAID jointly conducted supervision
although USAID staff took the lead for routine monitoring of physical implementation.
2.4         Although the Bank has long been concerned with the increasing problem of
upland degradation and inappropriate watershed management in Indonesia, particularly on
Java, cofinancing the UACP was its first involvement in a project that exclusively
addressed the problem of land and water resources conservation in the degraded upland
of Java. The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$50.2 million, with the
following financial plan: USAID US$18.9 million; IBRD US$11.3 million and GOI
US$20.0 million. The IBRD loan (No. 2474-IND) was approved in October 1984 and
became effective in May 1985.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The overall objective of UACP, as stated in the USAID Project Document,
was to increase farm production and incomes, while minimizing soil erosion, in densely
populated upland areas in Java by improving farming systems, farm technologies and
management. This was to be achieved by project actions designed to: (a) expand and
improve institutional capacities, primarily at provincial, district and farm levels, and
(b) experiment with and apply alternative approaches to upland farming in the upper
Brantas and Jratunseluna watersheds in East and Central Java respectively. Four districts
(kabupatens) were included in each watershed:  Malang, Blitar, Tulungagung and
Trenggalek in the Brantas watershed; Semarang, Boyolali, Grobogan and Blora in the
Jratunseluna watershed.
3.2          The project consisted of five components:
(a)   Farming Systems Research (FSR) (7% of total project costs) to develop
technologies for increasing farm production and farmers income, while
promoting soil and water conservation and management;
(b)   Sustainable Upland Farming Systems Pilot Projects (SUFS) (21 % of total
project costs) for improving on-farm trials and diffusion of irnproved
technologies for the management of upland areas. SUFS activities consisted
of: (i) establishment of ten nurseries and 72 demonstration plots; and
(ii) introducing soil and water conservation technologies on some 21,000 ha
of expansion areas (Dampak);
(c)   Human Resources and Institutional Development (EIRD) and Training
(12% of total project costs) including long and short-term overseas and in-



-3-
country training and study tours for government officials, extension
workers, farmers, community leaders, technical and managerial staff;
technical assistance for strengthening-institutions;
(d)   Conservation Access Roads (CAR) (20% of total project costs) to facilitate
the movement of materials into demonstration farms and expansion areas,
marketing of farm produce and also to facilitate delivery of extension
services and dissemination of improved technologies through the training
and visit system;
(e)   Project Innovation Fund (PIF) (0.2% of total project costs) to provide a
flexible source of financing for studies, small pilot projects, field tests or
other initiatives not otherwise funded under the project which contributed
to the project's purpose. Funds for these activities were made available to
non-governmental institutions such as universities, foundations and private
sector organizations.
In addition, a Soil Survey was conducted during the project implementation to have
detailed and semi-detailed soil maps of the project area for planning and application of
suitable conservation techniques of crop production for demplot and farming systems
research areas.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1          Since multiple interventions are required to assure adoption of productive
but ecologically stable upland agriculture technology, it is difficult to manage upland
agriculture programs in a centralized manner. Project design and organization was based
on four main management principles:
(a)   Decentralized Management: Responsibility and authority for planning and
implementation was placed at lower levels in the provinces and districts as
the only practical way of planning and managing soil conservation
programs.
(b)   Unified Management:  The project vested sufficient authority in the
Provincial and District BAPPEDAs in planning and budgeting control to
ensure the unified management of the various concerned technical agencies
and financial resources.
(c)   Unified Budgeting System: Annual plans and budgets were prepared by
the Provincial and District Planning Boards (BAPPEDA) in collaboration
with participating technical agencies. These budgets were reviewed by
Ministry of Home Affairs, BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance and
USAID/IBRD before being sent to BAPPENAS and Ministry of Finance for
approval. Funds came through Inpres Dati I on-top and Inpres Dati II.
Prefinancing of donor funds was effected through the Director General of
Budget.  However, FSR  funds were approved by the Agency for



- 4 -
Agriculture Research and Development (AARD), since it had to be
approved by a different Bureau in BAPPENAS.
(d)   Community Participation:  Involvement and acceptance of project
activities by target beneficiaries during the early stages of project
development are key to the success of implementation. To gain farnier
acceptance of proposed innovations, a strategy and process of mobilizing
community understanding and active participation in addressing problems
was implemented recognizing that only dynamic local leadership is able to
mobilize community support for the project.
4.2         Based on the above broad management principles, project organization was
as follows: the lead agency at the national level was the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MOHA) in BANGDA, while the Ministries of Agriculture, Forestry, BAPPENAS and
Finance were supporting agencies responsible for providing technical, administrative,
policy and financial support to the project. Guidance and technical teams, an Executive
Secretariat (EXSEC) and Joint Office Support Staff (JOSS) were also established at the
national level to provide policy and technical guidance and manage day-to-day project
activities.
4.3         At the Provincial Level, Governors of East and Central Java established
Guidance Teams and Project Coordination Offices (PCO). The coordinators had the
responsibility for the application and use of both USAID and IBRD funds to prefinance
or reimburse project expenditures, with the exception of those of the FSR and training
components managed by the Ministry of Agriculture at national level, and also coordinated
planning and reporting functions for project kabupatens. At the District Level, district
chiefs (Bupatis) were responsible for the overall coordination of planning and project
implementation in their respective districts. They were assisted by a District Guidance
Team and a Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a Project Manager responsible
for coordinating the inter-agency planning and project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. Project activities implemented at the field level were coordinated through
participating Rural Extension Centers (REC/BPP) in coordination with Subdistrict Heads
(Camat) and Village Heads. In each project site, farmer groups were formed.
5.    Implementation Experience
5.1         The basic agreements for funding UACP were signed by GOI and USAID
in July (USAID) and October (Bank) 1984. At that time, the planned completion date for
the USAID-funded part of the project was June 30, 1991, and the Closing Date for the
Bank loan was September 30, 1992. The Bank loan became effective in May 1985, only
slightly behind the original date. Although a few isolated activities had been started since
FY84, there was basically one year delay in implementation after effectiveness and
progress continued to be extremely slow for a number of years. The required institutional
and procedural changes to manage and coordinate the activities of the many agencies
involved at different levels, and the strengthening of institutional capacity, particularly at
local levels, took much longer than anticipated, despite the high levels of TA and intensive
local USAID supervision. In addition, with the exception of CAR, all project components



were provided with insufficient budget. One of the biggest component, SUFS, received
the smallest budget.  For the first three years, component budgets varied from 20-
68 percent of project projections except for CAR, the budget of which was almost double
that projected for that period.
5.2          The project design appropriately stipulated FSR activities to precede the
implementation of the SUFS pilots so that well tested technologies would be available for
introduction to the upland farmers. However, this logical sequencing of these two key
agricultural development activities was not achieved because of long delays in the
recruitment of staff and technical assistance for FSR, as well as early and fast
implementation of the SUFS pilots. The technical basis for implementing the SUFS pilots
was, therefore, severely limited and often inappropriate, and affected the quality, relevance
and sustainability of the on-farm technology diffusion. Research never caught up with the
SUFS until late in the project implementation period and completion of the mid-term
review in 1989. Apart from poor linkage with research, SUFS also suffered from
inadequate participation of extension workers in its planning and implementation, a
constraint which was not effectively overcome during the life of the project.
5.3          FSR was first implemented in FY84/85 in Malang and Blitar in East Java
(another district, Tulungagung was added in 1988 and Trenggalek district after that).
Boyolali and Semarang were initially selected in Central Java and Grobogan district was
added later. Ungaran field laboratory was established in 1985 for technology screening,
demonstration and production of planting material. Research on food crops was also
conducted at SUFS sites. Research strategy and approach were similar in both provinces.
The quality and effectiveness of FSR in the beginning were much affected by the late
appointment of consultants for this component.  Early efforts proved to have little
relevance as they were not based on farmers needs and were later replaced by more
progressive approaches, such as farmer participative research and village-level technology
assessments based on prior diagnostic surveys.
5.4          Early results also confirmed the difficulty of introducing technological
change based on intensification because of the high risk factor and labor constraints.
Moreover, they revealed the inappropriateness of the "top-down" approach and the need
for intensive participation of extension and local government staff and farmers. Eventually
the "development research" approach developed within AARD was adopted in which
farmer groups were organized to work closely with FSR staff in planning and
implementing their research agenda, based on an assessment of farmer practices and
available technology. It was soon realized that high input systems were inappropriate and
cropping systems requiring high labor inputs were unlikely to be adopted because of
alternative employment opportunities. It was also found that sustainable upland farming
systems could not be based on food crops alone and that farmers tended to revert to low
input traditional technology when no longer subsidized.
5.5          Physical implementation of the Bank financed components also suffered due
to delays in the reimbursement of loan funds because of cumbersome and lengthy USAID
procedures for submission of claims. USAID would process only one reimbursement
application in a year for submission to the Bank, that too after verification of physical



- 6 -
works through on-site inspection(s) by USAID personnel. Since GOI would not release
additional local funds until accrued expenditures had been accounted for and processed for
reimbursement by donors, USAID procedures inevitably led to shortage of funds for timely
program implementation. This is exemplified by the fact that although field activities
started in FY86, the first reimbursement application was not received by the Bank until
November 1987, after USAID had approved FY86 and FY87 expenditures in October
1987. The consequential funding constraints adversely affected the pace of physical
implementation: in the third year of the project (1987/88) only 33 demplots and 2054 ha
of expansion area, representing only about 38% of the targets, had been established in the
eight project districts in the two provinces.
5.6         The Bank and USAID carried out joint supervision. USAID in effect
administered the project, and its staff were directly responsible for procurement and
disbursement as well as routine monitoring of physical implementation, albeit in
collaboration with project management. Quarterly financial reports by PMUs and PCOs
were submitted to BANGDA, but reports on progress in implementation of the various
components were initially not being provided to the Bank. A reporting system requiring
district and PCOs to report physical progress to BANGDA had been instituted. However,
the data were not compiled and analyzed in a consolidated progress report. Reporting
continued to be unsatisfactory until early 1987, but improved thereafter following
recruitment of an MIS expert and other consultants.
5.7         A mid-term review was done by consultants retained by USAID generated
35 recommendations which encompassed eight major areas: (i) the role and function of
the Executive Secretariat, (ii) the establishment of a National Watershed Management
Steering Committee, (iii) policy implications emerging from the UACP experience, (iv) the
need to further strengthen the MIS for project management and information purposes,
(v) streamlining the commitment and disbursement of loan and grant funds and timely
release of funds to the provinces and districts, (vi) improved planning of SUFS,
(vii) redirection of the FSR, and (viii) the need to extend the project for at least two years
to introduce the recommended changes and more fully achieve project objectives. The
review concluded that a clear statement of priorities and full integration of project
components would be needed to reach project objectives.
5.8         Based on the conclusions and recommendations of the mid-term evaluation,
a proposal and detailed work plan was prepared to improve project implementation and
disbursement.  The proposal included increased funding from other projects, closer
research-extension linkages at provincial level, improved linkages/coordination between
the agencies concerned with uplands, and greater involvement of provincial and local
entities in planning and establishing a permanent capacity for long-term upland research.
The research would be reorganized to more effectively identify and address constraints of
selected agro-ecological regions and socio-economic conditions.  Continued support,
particularly for research, would be dependent on progress made in institutionalizing the
new approaches and increased beneficiary participation to develop a demand-driven
problem-solving approach and the adaptation of relevant technology generated by other
ongoing research.



-7 - 
5.9         In addition to improvements in technical implementation, procedures for
funding and reimbursement would also be streamlined. In March 1990, the financial
management system for UACP was modified with respect to the timing and frequency of
PILs (Project Implementation letters from USAID to release funds), a monitoring system
was established in conjunction with the MIS, a quarterly reimbursement system was
initiated, and FSR was integrated into this system. The JOSS, EXSEC, PCO, PMU staff
were trained in the system which was first implemented on a trial basis in the third quarter
FY89/90.
5.10        After detailed discussions between GOI, USAID and the Bank, a number
of changes and an action program along the lines above were agreed, based on a 2-year
extension of the project and it was at this stage that project implementation dramatically
improved ensuring the successful completion of the project after a shaky start. The
extension to June 1993 was agreed by USAID on June 6, 1990. The Bank also agreed to
an extension of its loan to September 30, 1993. Although in June 1990 disbursement of
Bank funds was still unsatisfactory, project implementation, including disbursement,
improved rapidly after that as a result of the restructured project and streamlining of
procedures. As indicated under Project Results, the project was able to reach or exceed
most of its targets towards the end during the two-year extended period, and the Bank loan
was 90 percent disbursed, although mostly during the latter half of the project.
5.11        In summary, after a trying period of initial start-up, spanning almost half
of the initial project period, concerted efforts by GOI, USAID and the Bank to restructure
the project to improve project implementation paid off. The improvements and changed
approaches introduced during the second half of the project allowed it to achieve its main
objectives.
6.    Project Results
6.1         Despite the slow and uncertain start the project, with a two-year extension
from USAID and one additional year of the IBRD loan, reached (or even exceeded) most
of its targets and went a long way toward achieving its objectives. At the end of the
project decentralized interagency planning and implementation of conservation programs
were functioning in districts under the project through annual district, provincial and
central budget planning.  These activities also have been expanded to some other
kabupaten.  Farmer's groups have been established and maintained, and extension
programs produce conservation farming and extens-on materials and are active through
local and national field days. Village heads and Camats are involved to a much greater
extent in conservation activities.
6.2          The Rural Extension Centers (BPP/REC) have been used as focal points for
planning and coordinating upland extension activities to motivate farmers and introduce
improved technologies. Food crop production and farmers incomes are estimated to have
increased (30-40 percent) as soil erosion has decreased (40-60 percent), resulting in a very
positive farmers' attitude toward conservation farming. Shortage of extension agents has
been overcome by appointing spot workers and motivated farmer leaders. The project has



- 8 -
successfully established a computerized Management Information System (MIS) at
Kabupaten and Provincial levels. Baseline data is now routinely collected and several
evaluation studies have been conducted by the provinces. Project completion reports from
kabupatens and provinces provided data, evaluations and recommendations for this PCR
and for future improvement of the programs initiated. Private contractors, universities and
NGOs have been actively involved in providing services to local communities under the
project.
6.3         As part of the FSR program, one field laboratory was established in
Ungaran, Kabupaten Semarang, Central Java and 15 outreach sites established in both
watersheds, including eight "development research" (integrated FSR and SUFS) sites
covering research on soil conservation, component technologies, cropping patterns,
farming systems, livestock, tree crops, silvipasture and socio-economic evaluation. FSR
researchers are now routinely providing inputs into the planning and soil conservation,
crop and livestock production programs for the SUFS through field days, roving seminars,
reports, booklets, infoteks, and training of extension agents and farmers. A relatively
strong multidisciplinary research capacity has developed, and a farming systems working
group was established within AARD. However, stronger support from AARD is still
needed. Central and East Java contributed to research funds out of their provincial
budgets for 1993/94 fiscal year.
6.4          The FSR Field Laboratory at Ungaran has been very effective. It has been
used not just for research, but also for extension and training. Research programs/
activities are responsive to the needs of local governments and some promising research
results, such as the use of livestock in increasing farmers' income and conservation are
being increasingly adopted. Alley cropping has been shown to substantially reduce soil
erosion, increase organic matter and enhance soil physical properties. Food crops trials
have shown that several improved varieties of corn have about 30 percent yield advantage
over local corn varieties. Both soybean and groundnut responded with yield increases of
about 0.5 ton/ha to balanced fertilizer applications (100 kg/ha of each urea, TSP and
KC 1). The most effective technological change in terms of conservation and increased
income, was the introduction of permanent grass cover and livestock. Not much data has
been collected yet on tree crops. Stronger support by AARD is still needed to continue
a strong multidisciplinary farming system research group with local funding.
6.5         Under the SUFS component, 78 demonstration plots of 10 ha each and
20,181 ha of subsidized expansion area were established, bringing the total SUFS area to
20,961 ha in the two watersheds. Approximately 4,500 and 3,600 ha of spontaneous
(unsubsidized) expansion area was also established in East and Central Java respectively.
Eighteen permanent nurseries and 224 village nurseries were established in the two project
provinces. A livestock component/subsidy was provided in the second year of SUFS
implementation (mainly small ruminants), and later during the project extension, cattle
fattening was also introduced.  Based on the Impact Study report by independent
consultants, the quality of SUFS, especially terraces, could be rated as moderate. The
approach and technologies applied were too rigid for the diverse conditions encountered.



- 9 -
6.6          As indicated before, an extension system is now in place to serve the needs
of upland farmers in the project area, and increasingly in other districts. Farmers' groups
have been formed; local leaders and camats play a more important role in motivating
farmers participation.  NGOs and universities participate in conservation farming,
community development, and agriculture production and evaluation. Institutionalization
of the new approaches introduced by the project is slowly evolving and more productive,
sustainable technologies are gradually spreading. It is obvious, however, that greater
opportunities for off-farm employment will play a big role in returning some of the more
degraded uplands on Java to sustainable use.
6.7          In a more general sense, the human resource development (HRD) and
training component contributed substantially to the successes of other components. As part
of the general awareness creation of the benefits of conservation farming, more than
20,000 farmers and community leaders were trained on upland conservation farming
related activities. In addition, more than 2,000 local government officials were trained in
management and technical skills, and 100 extension agents received diploma (DI) training
at local universities. A total of 23 MS candidates were enrolled in local universities, of
which 19 completed their degree, 2 dropped out and 2 delayed their study. Of the 24 MS
candidates enrolled in overseas universities, 23 completed their degree. One Ph.D.
candidate enrolled in a US University and is expected to complete his studies in August
1995.
6.8          The Conservation Access Roads (CAR) component received a lot of priority
from GOI, and is generally regarded as one of the most successful project components,
with the completion of construction and upgrading of 613 km (316 segments) of all-
weather-access roads in the project area. Roads were designed or realigned to minimize
erosion and evaluation studies have clearly shown the development impact of project roads
in the areas where they were constructed. A considerable number of staff received
training in design, construction and maintenance of conservation roads.
6.9          The Project Innovation Fund (PIF) was unsuccessful, although four PIF
activities were implemented: (a) the introduction of "SELANI" in East Java; (b) the
utilization of treated rice straw mulch for corn; (c) training on production of high quality
seedlings; and (d) improvement of housing environment. Another activity attempted, viz.
sloping land agriculture technology (SALT) was not successful.  Funds were later
transferred to be used for other purposes such as training and study tours.
6.10         Project activities have been publicized through various means, including FSR
radio programs; an International Conference on: "Conservation Policies for Sustainable
Hill Slope Farming"; a National Watershed Workshop; the televised event of the "Catur
Temu Karya"; various Newsletters and the utilization of the FSR Field Laboratory for
training transmigrants and students. Village soil conservation slide shows are regularly
conducted. Brochures and posters on soil conservation, conservation farming, nursery
establishment and maintenance, and other farming related activities have been produced,
and a library data base network of more than 750 titles of publication on upland agriculture
and soil conservation has been published and distributed to relevant agencies. This data
collection was conducted in collaboration with Bogor Agriculture Institute. In addition,



- 10 -
a large number of studies and reports on different aspects of upland conservation farming
were produced under the project (See Annex 2) and are being used in the planning and
implementation of other upland conservation programs.
6.11        At the time of appraisal, USAID estimated an internal return of slightly less
than 12% based on a with/without project comparison considering the effect of sustainable
farming systems and access roads only. At the conclusion of the project, the data collected
were considered inadequate to calculate the actual internal rate of return on the same basis.
As a more reliable measure based on an impact study of a comparison of participant/non-
participant farmers, a financial internal rate of return of 11.4% was estimated for the Base
Case scenario. Only those components, about 72% of the total project cost, which were
directed specifically to raising farm output (Conservation Access Roads of $7.9m, Human
Resources Development of $4.8m, and Institutional Development of $16. Im), were
included in the calculation of the financial IRR for the Base Case. The remaining 28%
of the project cost or $11.2m, for Sustainable Upland Farming Systems and Farming
Systems Research, generated unquantifiable benefits in the long-term in the form of
improved technologies and management relevant to upland areas. While the USAID
estimated IRR is not directly comparable to the financial IRR calculated for PCR purposes,
indications are that project benefits were roughly in line with those estimated at project
appraisal.
6.12        Sensitivity analysis estimates show that if the farmgate price of rice
increased by 10%, the IRR would be 13.2%. However, the IRR would be 9.5% if the
price of rice decreased by 10%. If benefits continued for an additional ten years, the IRR
would be 13.6%. If full costs of the project ($40 million) were included, which covers
costs not directly related to raising farm output but which produce other benefits, then the
IRR would be 5.9%, significantly less than the Base Case estimate of 11.4%. Table 7
under Part III of the Report discusses the assumptions behind these calculations.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1         The lead donor, USAID, has rated the project as 'conditionally" successful
in achieving its long-term goal, depending on GOI consistently continuing to support
programs and activities initiated under the project. Impact studies have shown that
on-farm erosion in project areas has been reduced by 40-60 percent, even though in most
sites, soil erosion is still higher than the Tolerable Soil Loss Rate (TSL); and a
35-50 percent increase in production and income from food crops. Additional conservation
measures can be, and are being introduced to reduce erosion further to tolerable limits.
On some of the more badly degraded areas, this will entail rehabilitation and less intensive
land use through the creation of additional opportunities for off-farm employment. It is
clear that sustainability is very much dependent on the continued availability of services,
particularly credit. The GOI is committed to long-term programs on sustainable
agriculture and will, through APBN and APBD, continue to implement upland
conservation activities in the project and other areas after project completion. UACP
management approaches will be used as a model for uplands development-related projects.
On-Top budget was allocated for FY 93/94 to continue activities in the project area and
to expand them also to other areas e.g., Cimanuk and National Watershed Project (IBRD:



- 11 -
Ln. 3658-IND). GOI is also considering establishing a National Watershed Policy
Clearing House.
7.2          Despite the difficulties in implementation experienced in the beginning, the
project's objectives were largely met. While the cost was high and immediate project
impact may not appear that significant, the payoff can be expected in the longer term,
mainly as a result of the human resource and institutional development. To ensure
sustainability of actions initiated under the project, it will be important to provide a wider
forum for the people trained under the project to apply their knowledge, and continue the
process of refining approaches to upland development. Local governments involved in the
project are taking steps to continue and expand activities initiated under the project with
their own resources. Local governments in both Central and East Java are continuing
project activities and expanding them to four additional Kabupaten in Central and five in
East Java. Both have introduced "models" of upland development based on lessons
learned from UACP. Funds are available from "on-top" local funds, and from the
Regreening Program.  Local officials hope that improvements from UACP would be
included in the IZegreening Program for the longer term.
7.3          The models being considered at provincial and kabupaten levels, besides
including successfuL initiatives of UACP (including FSR), are based on increased
community and NGO participation (creating greater awareness and a feeling that they are
'master of their own fate"), the provision of credit, and the encouragement of
"symbiotic" relationships between small farmers and commercial enterprise in agribusiness
ventures such as large-scale cattle fattening. In Central Java, local government is ensuring
that FSR will be maintained by transferring the facilities of the field laboratory at Ungaran
to AARD for a period of 25 years and providing some of the funding for the research
program from the local budget. The integration of government agencies at different levels
which UACP helped develop is being incorporated in the budgetary system by maintaining
a unified budgeting and management approach. The increased community participation
envisaged will require new policies and approaches and support from NGO type training,
with extension aimed at farm families rather than farmers. Wider application of the
principles and practices developed and/or applied under UACP will no doubt lead to
greater sustainability of upland farming, not only in the project areas, but also in other
marginal areas in Indonesia.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          Bank supervision was generally satisfactory. Although the Bank showed a
great deal of flexibility, reconciling USAID, Bank and GOI procedures to facilitate rapid
implementation and disbursement took a long time to accomplish and, as explained above,
was not really achieved until after the mid-term evaluation. The Bank did not participate
officially in the mid-term evaluation which was carried out by consultants under TOR to
USAID. However, Bank supervision of technical aspects of implementation increased in
intensity towards the second half of the project and recommendations made by supervision
missions contributed substantially towards restructuring the project and improving project
implementation.



- 12 -
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1          The overall performance of the Borrower can be considered satisfactory
based on the outcome of the project, although it is difficult to arrive at a single rating
because of the many agencies involved in implementation, and the difficulties experienced,
particularly in the early part of the project, to coordinate their activities.  Also
complicating a fair evaluation of the Borrower's performance were the very close
supervision of in-country USAID staff and the heavy input from consultants, also mostly
working closely with and supervised by USAID, giving rise sometimes to the mild
criticism of GOI staff that USAID "micro management" and procedures were at times
counterproductive to GOI getting on with implementation. On the other hand, it took time
to consolidate the required institutional changes and build capacity, particularly at
provincial, kabupaten and field levels, which probably would not have been achieved as
fast without the considerable inputs of consultants and USAID.
9.2          Generally, in solving some of the difficulties encountered it is felt that
Bangda could have been more decisive and proactive in carrying out its role as lead
implementation agency and coordinator of all project activities. AARD performance also
was rather weak during the early part of the project but improved towards the end.
Recognized weaknesses in the Borrower's performance were the failure to: (i) provide
adequate budgets and/or the timely release of funds for most components except CAR and
(ii) ensure satisfactory strength in extension in terms of both quantity and quality of
extension workers deployed, although this was partly overcome by employing "spot
workers" under the project and giving a greater role to farmer leaders in extension.
10.   Project Relationships
10.1        Working relations between the Bank, USAID, the various implementing
agencies of GOI, and the different groups of consultants were generally good and
constructive. Relationships between implementing agencies were also good for the main
part, although sometimes lack of communication and clear working channels for the
implementation of inter-agency activities tended to interfere with project execution and the
synchronization of interdependent project activities, as in the case of FSR and SUFS in the
early part of the project. As could be expected with such a large and diverse TA
component, involving different companies and many individuals and disciplines, relations
between the implementation agencies and consultants varied from excellent to poor, but
on the whole were quite satisfactory and effective. Relationships between the project and
universities, contractors and NGOs were also generally satisfactory and productive. Main
project elements were widely known to, and appreciated by farmers in the project area and
around.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1        The project provided for what would be considered an unusually high input
of TA in comparable Bank projects. At the time when the project was implemented about
10 years ago, it was common practice, particularly in projects supported by bilateral
funding agencies, to use high levels of TA. As noted below, this degree of TA would no



- 13 -
longer be justified or acceptable to the Bank or GOI, given the increased capacity and
efficiency of the implementing agencies and growing expertise. Both long and short-term
TA under the project was financed entirely by USAID and provided through: (a) USAID
Direct Contract, (b) Host Country Contract (HCC), (c) Participating Agency Services
Agreement (PASA), and (d) Personal Services Contracts (PSC).
(a)   USAID Direct Contract:  An international firm and a group of local
companies, provided approximately 652 person months of TA which
consisted of Watershed Planners, Management Information Specialist, Local
Government Facilitator, Extension Agronomists, Horticulturist, Rural
Sociologists and short-term specialists, both foreign and local. Teams were
located in Semarang and Salatiga (Central Java), Malang (East Java) and
Jakarta. TA started in July 1986 and was completed in June 1993. The
primary tasks of the teams were to provide assistance on project planning,
institutional development, agricultural extension, management information
and computerization, community development and local training, access
road construction, impact study data collection and analysis, horticulture
development and various studies and evaluations.
(b)   Host Country Contract: Another contract provided approximately 141
person months of short and long-term technical assistance, both foreign and
local. The TA team was mobilized in September 1987 and completed its
work in December 1992. To overcome the late recruitment of this TA, two
short-term consultancies were provided (PSC and direct contract) to assist
the FSR prior to the start of the HCC team. The team was located in
Salatiga, Central Java, but covered both Jratunseluna and Brantas
watersheds, and consisted of a Senior Research Specialist, Research
Management Specialist, Farming Systems Analyst, Agronomist, Research-
Extension Advisor, Natural Resource Economist and various short-term
specialists. The main task of this TA was to provide assistance to the FSR
team in planning and implementation of multi-disciplinary farming systems
research responsive to the need of the complex agro-socio-economic
conditions of the project area. More specifically, assistance was provided
on: research design and management; computer training and statistical
analysis; on-farm research method, agronomy, horticulture and livestock;
soil conservation, socioeconomics, research-extension linkages and
dissemination of research results. In the last two years of the project, work
concentrated on an inventory of research results, research-extension
linkages, research communication with extension agents, planners and
policy makers and "Penelitian Pengembangan" in farmers fields.
(c)   Participating  Agency  Services Agreement (PASA):   USDA/Soil
Conservation Services (SCS) provided approximately 201 person months of
long (185 pm) and short-term (16 pm) technical assistance. The TA
consisted of Soil Conservation Advisors, Training Advisor, Watershed Soil
Conservationists, Soil Scientists/Survey and Taxonomy-related training
specialists, and Administrative Review  Teams.  The TA  started in



- 14 -
December 1985 and was completed in December 1992. USDA/SCS teams
were located in Jakarta, Salatiga (Central Java) and Malang (East Java).
The main tasks of the TA were: (i) at central level, to provide policy and
institutional advice to policy makers on issues regarding soil conservation
program management and implementation, soil survey and national resource
inventory, and to provide a Training Master Plan (short and long-term both
overseas and in country), (ii) at provincial level, to provide technical
assistance and training in soil conservation and institutional building.
(d)   Personal Services Contracts (PSCs):  The following services were
provided: (i) A soil scientist to conduct soil survey and mapping and
training; (ii) Project Management Assistance (PMA) to assist the
EXSEC/JOSS Office in project planning, management and reporting (18
person months); and (iii) A silvipasture specialist to assist FSR on
agroforestry research (9 pm).
In addition to the TA above, the project also received several short-term consultants
through HCC to conduct training, impact studies, policy studies, workshop and writing-up
draft workshop proceedings.
11.2        TA was managed by USAID and GOI (also under the close supervision of
USAID). It is therefore difficult for Bank staff to provide a full evaluation of the many
and varied services provided during project execution. From the observations of various
supervision missions and the many productive outputs and useful reports produced by the
consultants, it can be concluded that, overall, consultants' performance was satisfactory
and achieved its intended purpose. However, as can be expected from the involvement
of such a large number of individual consultants, performance varied from highly effective
to ineffective, and relationships between GOI staff and individual consultants from good
to unsatisfactory. As observed in para. 11. 1, high levels of TA were not unusual in
bilateral donor-funded projects at that time but, even so, the Bank agrees with GOI that
TA provided under the project was excessive. It should be remembered, however, that
10 years have passed since appraisal and implementation capacity in Indonesia for this type
of project was still low. It is much stronger today, so not only would new interventions
require much less TA but the types of consultants needed would be different. The growing
expertise in country and in GOI have contributed to a Bank-supported Ministry of Finance
initiative to reduce TA across the board in all sectors. Recent Bank loans have kept TA
expenses under 10 percent of project costs.
11.3        While Bank staff were not directly involved in the management and
supervision of TA and were only exposed to some of the many consultants that moved in
and out of the project, and while the Bank agrees with the GOI view that TA was
excessive, the quality of a number of individual consultants who interacted with Bank
supervision missions ranged from satisfactory to excellent. Their potential effectiveness
was sometimes impeded by the lack of funds and other constraints. Delays in the
recruitment of consultants did affect project implementation in the early years of the
project, particularly in the FSR component.  On the other hand, flexibility in the
appointment of consultants under the various types of contracts greatly facilitated project



- 15 -
implementation by rapidly meeting or adjusting to unexpected TA requirements due to
unforeseen events or changes in the project. While some of the TA was excessive and/or
ineffective, it is highly unlikely that without TA the project would have achieved its
objectives, and certain failures in TA should not lead to the general conclusion that all TA
was not required and/or was ineffective.
11.4        The question can be raised (and was) whether such a concentrated input of
TA and large numbers of consultants would tend to "take over" most of the management
of the project from GOI, reducing project ownership and incentive or necessity for staff
of local agencies to develop the necessary capacity and skills and thereby, in the longer
term, affecting the sustainability of the project. While, no doubt, some of this occurred,
and periodically friction and disagreement between consultants and their Indonesian
counterparts were apparent, the generally good relationships that existed created an
atmosphere in which many of the skills brought in by consultants were effectively
transferred through training and other activities.  Sustainability, as said earlier (see
para. 7.2) will depend on staff trained under the project, particularly those at provincial
and local level, being given the opportunity to apply their new skills and introduce the new
approaches more widely. Indications are that this is happening.
12.   Lessons Learned
12.1        Some of the main lessons learned from the UACP experience are listed
below:
(a)   Sustainable upland fanning is a long-term objective to be achieved by
continuous, step-wise action backed by appropriate policies;
(b)   FSR needs to be further diversified and based on identified local farmer
needs, and FSR and technology diffusion sites need to be fully integrated
to provide effective research-extension-farmer linkages;
(c)   Successful upland (watershed) development, planning and management
requires a decentralized approach with full involvement of local government
and local technical agencies, and greater participation of local communities
than has been achieved so far;
(d)   FSR initially introduced technologies which were too expensive or too
difficult for farmers to apply. Emphasis should be on simple, inexpensive,
vegetative measures (research results showed that vetiver grass is the most
effective vegetative barrier in the natural formation of terraces) and on
providing farmers with a range of options which they can apply according
to needs and resources;
(e)   Subsidies are required in the initial stages of introducing improved upland
farming practices and the subsequent availability of credit is crucial to the
sustainability of improved practices. Farmers tend to revert to traditional
practices if credit and other services are not maintained, thus endangering



- 16 -
sustainability. The use of revolving funds managed by farmers groups, as
successfully introduced in Wonogiri, should be studied and widely applied;
(f)    Adequate extension coverage, fully integrated and in close association with
FSR, is crucial to the rapid adoption of improved conservation farming
techniques. As a result of recent reorganization, many PPLs now have
returned to their respective Dinas and much of the integration fostered
under the project has been lost and extension has become less effective.
The present situation should be urgently reviewed by MOA in order to
restore extension services to their earlier effectiveness;
(g)   Farmers incomes cannot be significantly increased through conservation
farming systems based on food crops only. To improve income and cash
flow, farm enterprises need to be diversified with the introduction of higher
value cash crops and, particularly, livestock. Community forests should
include fruit and other industrial trees. In the project area the introduction
of permanent grass cover and livestock, either for fattening or milk
production, and greater emphasis on horticultural crops and vegetables have
been the most successful actions in stabilizing the land and increasing
farmer income;
(h)   To minimize resource degradation, off-farm employment opportunities need
to be created to reduce the dependence on income from intensive use of
uplands which have limited productive potential even with improved
technology;
(i)    FSR, which till now has only been supported as special project activities,
should be institutionalized within the national research system with wider
emphasis on regional and localized farming systems research;
(j)   Improved conservation farming techn:ques reduced soil erosion in the
project area from 40 to 60 percent but erosion was still above the limits of
tolerable soil loss. Additional measures, such as minimum tillage and
residue management could reduce soil losses further and are necessary to
ensure ultimate sustainability; and
(k)   Research results showed that vetiver grass is the most effective vegetative
barrier in the natural formation of terraces.



- 17 -
INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2474-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PRoJEcT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1.          In 1982, based on the data of the Directorate General of Forestry,
Ministry of Agriculture, there were about 8.51 million hectares of critical land in
Indonesia, of which about 1.18 million hectares were located on the densely populated
islands of Java and Madura. If left untouched the problem tends to be more and more
menacing over time. According to the Ministry of Forestry, by the end of the fifth
five-year development planning (Pelita V), the data of critical land has been increased
to about 9 million hectares.
2.          Presently, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is implementing a
nationwide conservation program in 39 watersheds, with 22 watersheds being
considered as super priority, 11 of which are located in Java. GOI shows increasing
interest in dealing with the problem, focusing its attention on the concept of
'"watershed management". A consensus has been reached among seven ministries,
i.e., the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Population and
Environment, the Ministry of Finance, and BAPPENAS on management of watershed
problems.
Project Objectives
3.          The goal of the Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project (UACP)
was to increase farm production and income, while minimizing soil erosion, in densely
populated upland areas of Java by improving farming system, farm technologies and
management, i.e., the development of Sustainable Upland Fanning System (SUFS).
The project's specific purpose was to improve institutional capacities, primarily at
provincial, district and farm levels, to experiment with an apply alternative approaches
to upland farming.



- 18 -
Project Design and Components
4.          In order to strengthen institutional capacity and test possible approaches
to improve farming system technologies and management, the project was designed to
have the following features:
(a)   It consisted of five primary and mutually interdependent components:
(i)  Sustainable Upland Farming System (SUFS) Pilot Project'
(ii)  Farming System Research (FSR);
(iii)  Human Resources Development (HRD);
(iv)  Conservation Access Road (CAR); and
(v)  Project Innovation Fund (PIF).
(b)   Application of new management principles, among others:
(i) Decentralized management;
(ii)  Unified management;
(iii) Unified budgetary system; and
(iv)  Community participation and management.
(c)   A set of objective criteria and targets, together with the underlying
assumptions, were then specified to evaluate project achievements. The
project targets for every component were as follows: (i) To build 72
demplot sites; (ii) To conserve 21,000 ha expansion areas; (iii) To build
475 km conservation access road; (iv) To train 20 Masters abroad, 40
diploma and PLP/PPL.
(d)   Management Information System: The central operational concept of
the project was learning-by-doing, which depended on the capacity to
monitor the project's output. The establishment of a provincial and
district management Information System (MIS) capable of routinely
generating data on output performance and providing information to
project authorities was, therefore, a central component of the project.
Project Implementation
5.          Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project (UACP) had been
implemented since Fy 1985/86. Although the loan agreement had been signed on
August 1984, there was not much project action in 1984. During the first two years
(85/86 - 86/87), implementation and disbursement were very slow due to a number of
administrative and technical constraints. Administratively, the project could not get
pre-financing loan at the right time due to unfamiliar funding system and complicated
PIL commitment procedures from  USAID.  Technically, there was a lack of
coordination among technical agencies (Dinas Pertanian, SBRLKT, BANGDES,
BAPPEDA Bagian Perekonomian) as well as Farming System Research (FSR). The



- 19 -
project had not developed an appropriate conservation package. Therefore during
these two years, the project mainly imposed terrace system to every SUFS area.
Moreover, there was lack of capable staff to mange and encounter both administrative
and technical barriers.
6.          In the first year of FSR activities the relationship between FSR and
SUFS was considered poor due to the focus on farming system models, particularly
in the Field Laboratory and on-farm trials managed by researchers. But since 1989
the FSR component changed its strategy, by shifting to the OFCOR type of research
(On-Farm, Client-Oriented  Research), the so-called Penelitian  Pengembangan
(Development Research). At the same time, more attention was placed on component
technologies, particularly livestock and conservation techniques. This resulted in a
much better relationship between FSR and SUFS, while direct transfer of technology
to farmers could be realized in the integrated activities between FSR and SUFS in the
Penelitian Pengembangan sites. Testing a comprehensive farming system model, using
perennial as well as annual crops was, however, a difficult task, that should be
considered as a long-term research activity beyond the capacity of project manpower
and budget.  The established research institutions should carry out such research
activity as a necessary back-stopping of a farming system approach to agricultural
development.
7.           Since 1989/90 the project gradually overcame both technical and
administrative constraints, created innovative and systematic ways to design project
plans and actions and facilitated the project implementation, processed reimbursement/
disbursement, carried out auditing and reporting systems.  The planning was
decentralized, the management was unified, the budgeting system was unified and
community participation was triggered.
Project Results
8.           At the completion, the project had successfully completed the target:
(i) 78 demplots; (ii) 21,000 ha expansion areas and 240 village nurseries; (iii) 613 km
conservation access roads; (iv) 8 sites with Farming System Research-extension
linkage. The project had trained about 20,000 farmers, 2,000 local government staffs,
55 management staff for overseas short course or comprehensive studies, 42 master
and one Ph.D. candidates. The project also successfully established a computerized
management information system; carried out four policy studies and one
comprehensive economic impact study. Community participation increased, in which
the farmers willfully sacrificed their land for access road without any compensation.
Many farmers voluntarily adopted the project conservation approaches without
receiving subsidies from UACP. However, the project unsuccessfully carried out the
Project innovation fund, due to unclear guidelines about innovation projects and
implementation  from  the  non-government organization.   Details of project
achievements are briefly presented below.



- 20 -
9.           Sustainable Upland Farming, System Pilot Project (SUFS).
Farm Production. UACP Impact Studies revealed, based on the data
collected by the TA Team from 734 farmers, that participants produced
4,623 kg gabah (unhulled rice) equivalence per hectare in Central Java, and
3,478 kg in East Java, compared with only 2,623 kg produced by non-
participants.
Food Crops Farm Income. Participants' income from food crops
production in one year was about Rp 80,000/ha more compared with non-
participants.
Erosion Control. Project Impact Studies revealed, using a modified
USLE, that the erosion level of participants farms was 45 percent-75 percent
lower compared with the level of non-participants, yet soil loss was still above
the tolerable limit.
10.         Farming System Research (FSR).
Farming System Model. The so-called Farmning System Model can be
regarded as an attempt to identify the 'potential yield" by apply "the best
technology" using researcher's point-of-view, without regarding farmer's
capacity to adopt. In this case FSR was able to show that the potential yield
of upland farming system was high, reaching the level of net food crops farm
income of about Rp 1,500,000/ha.
Research-extension linkages.   Research-extension linkages were
strengthened through the OFCOR research, and direct cooperation between
FSR and BIP (Agriculture Information Center) to public research-extension
materials, the so-called Infotek.
11.         Human Resources Development (HRD).
Degree Program. A degree program to serve long-run interest was
able to:  (a) send 24 Master students abroad, in Asian and American
universities (23 finished); (b) send 23 Master students in domestic universities
(19 finished); (c) send I Ph.D. student to an American University; and (d) send
100 senior extension workers for DI (Diploma) Agriculture Extension program
in local universities (100 finished the program).
Staff Training. Staff training was carried out in many fields, such as
(a) conservation techniques, (b) management information system,
(c) monitoring and evaluation of various project components,
(d) computer skills, (e) project financing, and so on. In aggregate,
about nine kinds of courses have been implemented, and 1,517 staff
members participated in the training program.



- 21 -
Professional Training Overseas.   Thirteen professional training
programs were carried out through short-term professional visits,
seminars and workshops abroad, attended by approximately 70 project
staff.
Training at Farm  Level.  Farmers, village leaders (formal and
informal), and Key Farmers (Kontak Tani) participated in the training
programs. The training was focused on SUFS technology and its components,
conducted at the beginning of project implementation in the participating
villages. "Study banding" (Comparative Study Visits) were also conducted,
a kind of guided visit of farmers to successful SUFS sites, within or between
provinces.  In aggregate, 20,000 farmers participated in various training
programs conducted by the project.
12.          Conservation Access Roads.
Target Achievement. Total road length being constructed was 613 km,
exceeding the targeted length of 475 km. Access roads were planned to offer
the best alternative for the participating farmers and the respective village
society, by conducting simple feasibility studies to identify where to build
village roads based on the serving area, traffic count, and expected benefit. In
most cases the constructed roads were rehabilitation of the existing ones.
Road Quality. It was generally known that roads, if not properly
constructed, might become one of the major sources of soil erosion. For
Conservation Access Roads, standard criteria of quality were established to be
properly used in planning, and road construction. it was not easy to maintain
high quality, the achievement of which averaged to "medium quality" only,
which was considered reasonable.
Economic Benefit. Evaluation studies were conducted to assess the
benefit of road construction to local communities, by comparing traffic count,
transportation, and economic condition "before and after" the project. Various
economic benefits were revealed, such as lower transportation cost, availability
of farming supplies at the village level, and even to the extent that it induced
electricity to enter the village. These improvements were particularly likely,
if local Government was able to upgrade a village road into an asphalted
district road.
13.          Project Innovation Fund (PIF).
It was really difficult to develop "innovative criteria" in the use of PIF,
because SUFS itself is "an innovation". Following the recommendation
of the midterm Review in 1989, PIF was then discontinued, and the
remaining fund was allocated for other project activities. In fact, not
all PIF activities failed to show good results, and some activities were



- 22 -
incorporated within time broader SUFS activities developed in the last
two years of the project, such as the "Selani" concept in East Java and
mulching in Central Java.
Project Sustainability
14.          The goal of achieving sustainable upland farming is a long-run goal that
can be achieved step-wise through continuous efforts backed up by strong policy.
What has been done by the project can be regarded as a first plateau of achievement.
Sustainability of the result achieved is conditional on the sustainability of the services
provided by the project, so that it is required that project services by internalized into
the existing organizational and institutional set up, which is essentially the shift from
project to program services.
15.         It is very encouraging to observe that various government agencies were
motivated to continue the services initiated by UACP, both central agencies and the
regional government, ensuring sustainability of some services, such as continuing
upland extension efforts, integration of research and extension and acceptance of local
responsibility for continuing funding.
16.          The local governments continuously pay attention to sustain the
conservation activities. The East Java Local Government has spread the conservation
activities out to nine districts and the Central Java Local Government has spread it out
to six districts through their Inpres Dati I/II. Since the INPRES Penghijauan has been
integrated into Inpres Dati II, there is a possibility for local government to apply the
SUFS model to other districts in their provinces. Nowadays, Central Java Government
had cooperated with AARD to maintain the former FSR stations in Tegalefek and other
sites.
17.          Sustainability of Technology Adoption. Using a participant sample,
plus some non-participant samples from outside the SUFS villages, it was revealed that
both input use and farm output of participants tended to decrease over time, after the
subsidy was over. It showed that "sustainability" of technology adoption is conditional
on the "sustainability of the supporting services".
Bank and USAID Performance
18.          Both USAID and IBRD have contributed to the implementation of the
project. USAID and IBRD representatives cooperatively worked together side-by-side
with GOI to overcome and maintain the project problems and actions and to
accomplish project goals.  These cooperations should be carried out since the
commencement of the project. Hence, the funding system flowed smoothly.



- 23 -
Borrower's Performance
19.          Physical targets and the use of funds were, in general, properly achieved
as planned, or even exceeded, except for the Project Innovation Fund component.
Project strategies could, in general, be applied satisfactorily, while institutional
development proceeded as planned, particularly at the district level. In the analysis
of project performance, it was shown that the requirement of full-time project staff
could not be met, which was considered as the weakest ingredient of the whole project
structure. This is due to the fact that project tasks and responsibilities are still alien
within the existing governmental organization and institutional set up.
20.          In order to overcome these problems, since 1987/88 the project set up
a new joint operational support staff (JOSS), which consisted of representatives from
participating agencies.  The JOSS, Executive Secretariat and Technical Team
successfully handled day-to-day project problems or actions, and facilitated the project
implementation. They guided and strengthened the district (PMU) and provincial
(PCO) institutions to overcome their problems and to achieve the goals. The location
of SUFS and CAR were selected and proposed by local governments as well as
farmers' groups based on consensus criteria.  The conservation techniques were
designed after consulting to the farmers or beneficiaries, the plans were coordinated
through Bappeda Tk. Il as well as Tk. I. The staff were trained through appropriate
courses.
Consulting Services
21.          Upland project used excessive consultants both quantitatively and
financially as opposed to the project needs. The project used much more expatriates
than local consultants, but their contribution to accomplish the successful completion
of the project was insignificant.   Financially, the consultants had incurred
approximately US$11,938,000 or 32 percent out of US$37,400,000 actual project
expenses. On the other hand, only US$6,671,000 had been incurred for SUFS
activities and 58 percent of funding had been incurred to physical activities (SUFS,
CAR, HRD, FSR, PIF). The project could not optimally use the consultants since the
district and provincial staffs did not communicate effectively with the consultants and
the consultants were living far from  the office which needed them.  Many
disagreements on approaches raised between project staff and consultants, because
some of the consultants acted like boss or executive advisors as opposed to colleagues.
Actually, the project management needed consultants who can work together side by
side with local, district and provincial officials, so that transfer of knowledge can be
achieved.  However, there were some good contributions from the consultants,
including: (a) to establish a data base and impact studies; (b) to design a MIS and
facilitate economic impact study; (c) to advise conservation techniques; (d) to facilitate
managerial operation; and (e) to design some farming research topics.



- 24 -
Lessons Learned
22.         As mentioned in the Project Paper, UACP is a learning process, so that
non-physical improvements, such as improved skills, institutional development, and
changes in attitude of both farmers and government agencies, should be regarded as
significant outputs of the project.
23.         The project can be regarded as analogous to the Bimas program in the
early period of Pelita I, the learning process of how to increase rice production in an
irrigated ecosystem to reach self-sufficiency, facing at that time the problem of rice
import of the magnitude of 2 million metric tons per year. The problem is related to
the questions: (a) what kind of technology to use, (b) what kind of services are
needed, and (c) what kind of policy and strategy to apply. The main analogy is
between "irrigation" and 'soil and water conservation", resulting in different answers
to the same questions posed. Success was observed in the early years of Bimas, but
once the program was expanded on a massive scale then problems became more
apparent. To make success sustainable, there is only one way to proceed, i. e., to make
the services sustainable. Similarly to successfully expand the program to other area,
services have to be expanded to the new area. Many times we tend to forget this
simple rule, and think that the project results must be sustainable when "we go home".
the problem is 'how to transform project services into program", i.e., internalized
within the routine planning and development exercises of the respective agencies.
Conclusions
24.         In general, for all project components, UACP can be regarded as
successful, as a good initiation to start developing a viable national system for
watershed management and upland conservation farming. This is also true for various
aspects of institutional development in terms of the capacity of the existing institutions
to work in an integrated way to develop upland conservation farming system, within
the umbrella of broader regional development and watershed management.
25.         Project success was made possible by cooperation and integrated effort
by the government agencies and several levels of Government, and in particular special
effort of project farmers and village leaders.
Reconmnendations
26.   (a)   To support the trend of institutional development initiated by UACP, it
is considered timely to start developing a national system for watershed
management. The recommendation of the National Workshop on
Watershed Management held in Jakarta, February 1993, contains a lot
of information showing how to proceed;
(b)   In a study on watershed management sponsored by the project, it was
recommended to create a National Committee for Watershed Policy and



- 25 -
Management, into which all existing Committees related to watershed
management should merge, including The National Committee for
Regreening and Reforestation Program. It is recommended to consider
this option seriously, in an attempt to create a simple yet effective
watershed management system;
(c)    To internalize project tasks and responsibilities into the existing
organization and institutional set up, it is felt necessary for the
Government to take the following steps:
(i) To delegate parts of the tasks related to watershed management
to the regional Governments;
(ii) To change the status of Cabang Sub-Balai RLKT from a central
into a district agency;
(iii) The role of Bappeda and Kantor Lingkungan Hidup at the district
level should accommodate elements related to watershed
management as exemplified by the project;
(iv)  The tasks of carrying out the Management Information System
(MIS) developed by the project should be transferred to the
existing institutions;
(v)  At the provincial level the capability must be developed to
process and analyze the MIS data from the district level;
(vi)  Redefinition of the role of the BPP (Rural Extension Center) in
the extension program to serve the need of upland farming
system development;
(vii)  Specification of the roles of agricultural agencies at the district
level in conservation and watershed management;
(viii) Redefinition of the role of agricultural research in conservation
and watershed management.



- 26 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK/FuND LOANs AND CREDrrS
Year of
Credit/Loan No.                   Purpose                   Approval         Status
Cr. 946-IND        To improve the incomes and living           1979      PCR issued
standards of the people, promote soil                 12/90
conservation measures on the critical                 PPAR 3/93
uplands, and strengthen local level
institutions and the framnework for
community participation.
Loan 2638-IND      To raise farmer incomes and provide funds   1985      Ongoing
to sectoral agencies for farming system
research.
Loan 2930-IND      To strengthen planning, management and      1988      Ongoing
conservation efforts in this sector for
maximizing long-term contributions from
forest resources for the welfare of the
Indonesian people.
Loan 3305-IND      To improve the incomes and living           1991      Ongoing
standards of upland residents on a
sustainable basis through better resource
management.
Loan 3658-IND      To improve the living standards of poor     1993      Ongoing
upland farmers by improving and restoring
the productive potential of their resource
base.



- 27 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                Date                 Date
Item               Planned              Revised              Actual
Identification               -                    -                  1983
Preparation                  -                    -               August 1983
Appraisal                    -                    -                May 1984
Loan negotiations            -                    -             September 1984
Board Approval        August 14, 1984             -            October 30, 1984
Loan signature               -                    -           November 26, 1984
Loan effectivenes     March 26, 1985        May 23, 1985         May 23, 1985
Project completion     June 30, 1991      September 30, 1992  September 30, 1993
Loan closing         September 30, 1992   September 30, 1993  September 30, 1993
Table 3: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS (US$ Million)
Bank                  Bank                              USAID
Fiscal
Year     SAR       Actual       Actual       SAR       Actual      Actual
Estimate   Achieved  as % of SAR   Estimate  Achieved  as % of SAR
1985        0.80       0.03        4%           0.78      0.46        59%
1986        1.88       0.03        2%           1.79       1.18       66%
1987        3.48       0.13        4%           3.25      3.16        97%
1988        5.36       0.74        14%          5.15      5.96       116%
1989        7.36       1.79       24%           9.36      9.16        98%
1990        9.56       2.68       28%          13.01      12.47       96%
1991       11.24       5.37       48%          15.33      14.40       94%
1992       11.24       7.55       67%          17.42      15.96       92%
1993       11.24       9.13       81%          18.90      16.93       90%
1994       11.24      10.22       91%          18.90      17.18       91%



- 28 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - KEY INDICATORS
Actual
SAR      Revised               AS %
Item                  Unit   Target    Target   Achieved    SAR          Remarks
A. Demonstration Farms               no.         72                    78    108%
B. SUFS Area                         ha      22,900                20,961      92%
C. Human Resources Development
- training of farmers in
agricultural techniques        no.    3,000/a                 20,000    667%
- training of govt. employees in
agricultural techniques        no.    1,500/a                  2,000    333%
- M.S. trained abroad            no.       24/a                    23      96%   One Ph.D.
candidate
- M.S. trained locally           no.       23/a                    19      83%
- Diploma level extension
workers                        no.         40                   100    250%
D. Conservation Access Roads         km         475                   613    129%
E. Vehicle Procurement
- Jeeps                          no.         58                    43     74%
- Motorcycles                    no.         92                    88     96%
- Pick-ups & Minibuses           no.         32                    34    106%
/a Based on revised logical framework.



- 29 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCnSG
A. Project Costs (US$ million)
SAR /a       Actual       Actual
Component                Estimate     Achieved    as % SAR
1. Sustainable Upland Farming Systems   11.51         8.23        71.5
2. Farming Systems Research              3.62         2.91        80.6
3. Conservation Access Roads             4.41         7.87       179.5
4. Human Resources Development           2.25         4.79       218.2
5. Institutional Development            13.78        16.10       116.7
6. Project Innovation Fund               0.50         0.10        20.0
7. Contingencies                        14.08         0.03         0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  50.24        40.03        79.7
/a From SAR Table 20.
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
SAR Estimate        Revised Estimate        Actual Achieved
Source    Amount    %           Amount    %          Amount       %
Bank          11.3   22.5           11.3  29.4           10.2       25.5
USAID         18.9   37.6           17.4  45.1           17.2       43.0
GOI           20.0   39.8            9.8  25.5           12.6       31.5
Total         50.2  100.0           38.5  100.0          40.0      100.0



- 30 -
C. Component Costs by Funding Source (US$ million)
SAR    World
Component              Estimate   Bank   USAID   GOI  Total
1. Sustainable Upland Farming        11.51    2.92     1.46   3.85    8.23
Systems
2. Farming Systems Research           3.62    1.22     0.53   1.15    2.91
3. Conservation Access Roads          4.41    3.96     0.19   3.72    7.87
4. Human Resources Development        2.25    2.05     1.15   1.60    4.79
5. Institutional Development         13.78    0.04    13.73   2.31   16.10
6. Project Innovation Fund            0.50    0.00     0.10   0.00    0.10
7. Contingencies                     14.08    0.03     0.00   0.00    0.03
Total                             50.24   10.22    17.18  12.63   40.03



Amount of Loan allocated
A. BANK                                            (expressed in dollar equivalents)
Original Loan    As finally          %
Schedule        Amended        change
1. Institutional Development                                nil           nil
2. Farming Systems Research                         1,800,000      1,500,000         -17%
3. SUFS Pilot Projects                              2,900,000    3,100,000             7%                                             >
4. Human Resources Development                      1,400,000    2,400,000            71%
5. Conservation Access Roads                        2,700,000    4,100,000            52%
6. Project Innovation Fund                                  nil            nil                                                        O
7. National Watershed Organization Study                    nil      100,000
8. Fee                                                 28,180         28,180
9. Unallocated                                      2,471,820         71,820         -97%
Total                                           11,300,000   11,300,000
B. USAID                                                         Amount of Grant & Loan Allocated
Original        As rmally           %             Original        As finally          %
Grant Schedule    Amended /a        change        Loan Schedule    Amended lb         change
1. Institutional Development          4,400,000       5,549,000       26%               5,163,000       8,355,000       62%
2. Farmning Systems Research                nil          30,000                          707,000          504,000       -29%
3. SUFS Pilot Projects                      nil          35,000                         4,685,000        1,429,000      -69%
4. Human Resources Development              nil         415,000                               nil         749,000
5. Conservation Access Roads                nil              nil                          66,000          185,000       180%
6. Project Innovation Fund              500,000         102,000       -80%                    nil              nil
7. Contingencies/Others                 100,000              nil                        3,279,000              nil
Total                             5,000,000        6,131,000       23%             13,900,000       11,222,000      -19%
/a Grant Amendment No. 4.
/b Loan Amendment No. 6.



- 32 -
Table 7: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal            PCR
Estimate          Estimate
Beneficiary population                           16,000              n.a.
B. & C. Financial and Economic Impact (Economic Rate of Return)
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
This financial analysis is intended to demonstrate the financial viability of the
project and draws on the findings of an economic impact study in 1993 of UACP by PT. Exsa
International Co. Ltd. for the Directorate of Regional Development, Ministry of Home Affairs.
In the above-mentioned study, data from 734 farmers in the Jratuseluna and
Brantas watersheds were analyzed, and the impact of the Project on farmer participants were
determined by comparing their returns and yields with control groups of non-participants. It
was concluded that the farm incomes of upland farmers within the Project area were higher
than the non-Project farmers and there was a significant increase of dryland farm production
within the Project area versus non-Project farms.
Since the impact study focused on the participant/non-participant comparison
rather than in terms of before project/after project, the non-participant figures were used as
a proxy for before project figures in this analysis. The analysis presented below should,
therefore, be viewed with some caution, since non-participant farmers are not identical with
before project farmers. For instance, it was found that some non-participant farmers were
planting high value crops which were not recommended in UACP, thus earning higher incomes
than project farmers.
The major assumptions for a Base Case financial analysis are listed as follows:
(a)   the project cost of $40 million is the actual amount financed; however, only
those costs ($28.7 million) which were directed specifically to raising farm
output were included in the calculation of the IRR.  Thus, only those
components (Conservation Access Roads of $7.9m, Human Resources
Development of $4.8m, and Institutional Development of $16. Im) which
amount to about 72% of the total project cost were included for this exercise.
The remaining cost, $11.2 m for Sustainable Upland Farming Systems and
Farming Systems Research, would generate unquantifiable benefits in the long-
term in the form of improved technologies and management relevant to upland
areas.
(b)    Over the duration of the Project, 20,921 hectares were treated. Due to the fact
that early project implementation and disbursements were extremely slow, it is
assumed that no disbursements were made during the first two years. Instead,
it is assumed that 10% of the project cost was accrued in the third year, 20%



- 33 -
in the fourth year, 50% in the fifth year, and the remaining 20% in the sixth
year of the Project. Using the Bank currency equivalents exchange rates and
the Indonesian general price index, the cost for the respective year is
subsequently converted to 1993 prices in Rupiahs.
(c)   the incremental yield with the project of 1,432 kg/ha is used, which is the yield
differential between the UACP participants and non-participants.
(d)   the farmgate price of unhusk rice was taken to be Rp. 328/kg, which is derived
from the yearly average retail price of rice in three nearby cities (Surabaya,
Yogyakarta, and Semarang) in 1993, and adjusted back to farmgate and then
to paddy (unmilled) equivalent. It should be noted that this price (for 1993) is
somewhat below the KUD 1993 acquisition price from farmers of Rp. 340/kg.
(e)   the net incremental benefit is determined by multiplying the incremental yield
and the above farmgate price of rice. It is assumed that the participating
farmers would reap their benefits in year five and thereafter. It is further
assumed that they would reap 70 percent of the net incremental benefit in year
five, 75 percent in year six, and 85 percent in year seven. In addition, the
assumption is made that the net incremental benefits would decrease by
10 percent from year eight onwards because it is stated in the Project Paper that
in-kind subsidies were only provided during the first few years of the Project
to the farmers, and the above-mentioned study concluded that the production
level of farmers would be substantially lower after the subsidy ended.
(f)    UACP farmers are assumed to be reaping the benefits from the Project for the
next twenty years, which is ten years shorter than the projection period in the
Project paper, and is considered to be a conservative estimate for a project of
this nature.
Results of the Financial Analysis
Based on the above assumptions, a financial internal rate of return of 11.4
percent was obtained from the Base Case scenario.
Sensitivity analysis indicated that if the farmgate price of rice increased by 10%,
the IRR would be 13.2 %. However, the IRR would be 9.5 % if the price of rice decreased by
10%. If benefits continued for an additional ten years, the IRR would be 13.6%. If full costs
of the project ($40 million) were included, which cover costs not directly related to raising
farm output but which produced unquantifiable long-term benefits to upland areas, then the
IRR would be 5.9%, significantly less than the Base Case estimate of 11.4%.



- 34 -
D. Studies
Purpose
as dermed
Studies                in SAR          Status         Impact (Inc. fmdings, recommendations?)
Policy Studies:
1. Organization and Institutional     n/a       Completed      Three important findings on management
Studies on: "Management and                                 coordination:
Coordination of Integrated                                  a. Single Vertical Coordination: BANGDA has
Area Development"                                              direct coordination with BAPPEDA Tk.II
"Bottom Up" planning.
b. Single Vertical Coordination with
Multidiciplinary Components: BANGDA at
central level coordinates activities via Central
Guidance Team, Technical Team, and
Executive Secretariat. Planning &
implementation are done at district levels.
c. Double Vertical Coordination: Coordination
by BANGDA via Guidance Team and
Executive Secretariat at central level, and
structural coordination under individual
participating ministries.
2. Watershed Management               n/a       Completed       Findings and recommendations:
Organization Study                                          a. Recommended a National Watershed
Management Committee to be established at
National level since currently there is no
established committee to deal with watershed
development issues.
b. Existing organization related to watershed
management such as Regreening Program is
recommended to be integrated into a new or
restructured National Committee.
c. State Minister for Environment is
recommended as chairman of National
Committee's Guidance Team.
3. Study on Subsidy Level for         n/a       Completed       Findinas and recommendations:
Farmers                                                     a. Subsidy for conservation farming is still
needed.
b. Alternatives on amounts and ways of
providing subsidies were also identified and
described.
4. Rate of Adoption of                n/a       Completed       Policy recommendations:
Conservation Farming Related                                a. Strengthen organization and village institutions
to Land Tenure Status                                          to address soil conservation so that it is not an
individual farmer but a community problem.
b. Promote agribusiness activities to create off-
farm employment and therefore reduce
pressure on land.
c. UACP activities should be continued with
more comprehensive and long-term programs.



- 35 -
D. Studies (continued)
Purpose
as defined
Studies                in SAR       Status          Impact (Inc. rmdings, recommendations?)
Impact Studies:
1. Economic Benefit of UACP          n/a       Completed   To give a good evaluation of the various aspects of
1993     the project and transfer the experiences to other
projects.
2. Farmers Perception Toward          n/a
Adoption of Recommended
Upland Farming Systems
3. Sustainability of Recommenided     n/a
Soil Erosion Measures
4. Evaluation of Access Roads         n/a
5. Institutional Capacity of Local    n/a
Government to Plan and
Manage Project Activities
Proceedings:
1. International workshop on:        n/a       Completed   Offered policy makers, scientists and conservation
"Conservation Policies for                   March      technicians examples of what has been achieved in
Sustainable Hillslope                          1991      many countries around the world, particularly
Farming". Solo, Central Java.                            Indonesia. It was concluded that conservation policy
making, land tenure issues and institutional
development are all important to ensure sustainable
use of hillslope for agricultural purposes.
n/a      Completed   Participants recommended that additional resources
2. International workshop on:                    March      and talent be made available to help develop
"Development Procedures for                   1989      appropriate on-farm research methods. The additional
Farming Systems Research."                              talent have important implications for allocation of
Bogor.                                                   future research resources that enable investment in
developing approaches directly relevant to farmers
need. Significant changes need to be brought about in
extension, communication and agricultural education
to take advantage of the farming systems research
perspective.
3. National workshop on:              n/a      Completed   One important policy recommendation from the
"Pembangunan Daerah Dalam                   February    workshop was establishment of a National Watershed
Rangka Pengelolaan Usaha                      1993      Management Committee at Central level to address
Tani Lahan Kering dan                                   coordination on handling problems on critical land
Perbukitan Kritis", (Regional                            and soil conservation as part of watershid
Development in Relation to                               management, by improving the existing organization.
Farming Management on                                    This committee will act as "clearing house" for
Critical Uplands"), Jakarta.                            watershed related projects or programs. A bigger role
should be given to local governments especially at
district level to plan, implement, monitor and
evaluate project's activities.



- 36 -
E. Technical Assistance
'Technical Assistance (in US Dollars) [as of September 28, 19931
Contract             Expend.
Contractor                    Budget              To Date               Balance
USDA/SCS/PASA                                2,036,386            1,899,564               136,822
Winrock                                      1,459,489            1,417,662                41,827
DAI                                          6,617,849            6,419,981               197,868
1. USAID Direct Contract:
Development Alternatives, Inc. (DAI) provided 652 person-months of TA consisting of
Watershed Planners. Management Information Specialist (MIS), Local Government Facilitator,
Extension Agronomist, Horticulturalist, Rural Sociologists and short term specialists both foreign
and local.
The primary tasks of the DAI teams were to provide assistance on project planning, institutional
development, agricultural extension, management information and computerization, community
development and local training, access road construction, impact study data collection and
analysis, horticulture development and various studies and evaluations.
The team started in July 1986 and completed their contract in June 1993.
2. Host Country Contract:
Winrock International (WI) provided 141 person-months of short and long term technical
assistance for the FSR component. In addition, there were two short-term TA provided under
a PSC and direct contract to assist the FSR due to the late start of the WI team. The TA team
consisted of a Senior Research Specialist, Research Management Specialist, Farming Systems
Analyst, Agronomist, Research-Extension Advisor, Natural Resource Economist and various
short-term specialists.
The main tasks of this TA were to provide assistance for FSR team planning and implementation
of multi-disciplinary farming systems research components suitable to the need of complex agro
socio-economic conditions of the project area. More specifically, assistance were provided on:
research design and management; computer training and statistical analysis; on farm research
methodology, agronomy. horticulture, livestock; soil conservation, socioeconomic research,
research-extension linkages and dissemination of research results. In the last two years of FSR,
the work was concentrated on an inventory of research results, research-extension linkages,
research communication with extension agents, planners and policy makers and "Penelitian
Pengembangan" (Development Research) at farmers fields.
The TA team was mobilized in September 1987 and completed their contract in December 1992.
3. Participating Agency Services Agreement (PASA):
The USDA/Soil Conservation Services (SCS) provided 201 person-months of long (185 pm) and
short-term (16 pm) technical assistance.



- 37 -
The TA consisted of Soil Conservation Advisors, Training Advisors, Watershed Soil
Conservationists, Soil Scientist/Survey and Taxonomic related training specialists, and
Administrative Review Teams.
The TA started in December 1985 and completed work in December 1992.



- 38 -
Table 8: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement                                        Compliance
Article             Covenant Description            Date            Status           Comment
3.01 (A)        Carry out project in                            In compliance
accordance with Schedule 2.
3.01 (B)        (11) A project coordinator                      Complied
office shall be established in
each province to be headed by
a full-time project coordinator
with sufficient members of
qualified staff.
3.01 (B) (111)   (111) A project management                     Partially
unit shall be established in                    complied
each participating district to
be headed by a full-time
project manager with
sufficient numbers of qualified
staff.
3.03 (A)        Borrower shall furnish to the                   In compliance
Bank promptly upon their
preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, etc.
3.03 (B)        Borrower shall ... (lll) furnish                In compliance
to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the
project.
6.01            All conditions precedent to                     In compliance
disbursement of USAID loan
agreement and USAID grant
agreement fulfilled.



a. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)                                                                             ,
Fiscal
Year     Preappraisal     Appraisal      Negotiations    Supervision       Other         Total
1985                                                           11.9                          11.9        i
1986                                                            1.0                           1.0        
1987                                                            1.9                           1.9
1988                                                            4.2                           4.2
1989                                                            6.9                           6.9
1990                                                           17.3                          17.3
1991                                                           10.7                          10.7        0
1992                                                            9.3                           9.3 
1993                                                            2.2                           2.2
1994                                                            4.0                           4.0
Total          n/a             n/a            n/a              69.4         n/a              69.4



b. Missions                                               _
Mandatory Rating Status                    m
Type of               No. of   Days in                    Available   Project                Devt.   Overall
Mission       Date  Persons    Field    Specialization      Funds      Mgmt.   Covenants  Impact   Status
0
Preparation    8/83     6         n/a     PD,D,DD,AD          -
C,SLO, AO
10/83     1         21           A              -
Appraisal      5/84     2         15         E, LO            --
0
Supervision    5/85     2         10         AO, A           n/a         n/a        n/a       n/a      n/a
12/86     1         5            A              3          2         n/a         2        2
9/87     3          3        A, ENG            3          3          n/a        2        3          ce
1/88     1         2            A              3          2         n/a        2         3          1       j
2/89     4          5           A             n/a         n/a        n/a       n/a      n/a         _       o
9/89     3         11           A              3          2          2          2        2
5/90     3          3           A             n/a         n/a        n/a       n/a      n/a
2/91     3          7           A              3           2         2          2        2
12/91     2         6            A              3          2          2          2        2
2/92     2          5           A              3           2         2          2        2
5/93     1         n/a          A              2          2          2          2        2
9/93     2         13           A              2           2         2          2        2
PD = Program Director; D = Director; DD   Deputy Director; ADC = Agriculture Division Chief; SLO = Senior Loan Officer;
AO   Agriculture Officer; A = Agriculturalist; E = Economist; ENG = Engineer; LO = Loan Officer.



PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                         Objectively Verifiable Indicators                          Verification                Important Assumptions
Program or Sector Goal: The    Measures of Goal Achievement (A-2)                               (A-3)                              Assumptions for achieving
objectives to which this project                                                                                                   goal targets: (A-4)
contribute: (A-1)
To sustain and enhance the       Percent of uplands in sustainable productive use (forest.       1. Soil Survey and Land Use       That other development policies
productive capacity of Java's   silvipasture, estate crops, or privately profitable, but ecologically  Transects                   and activities of the GOI
uplands through improved        stable, arnual cropping systems).                                2. Indicators of Erosion          relevant to this area (e.g.,
management of soil and water                                                                       (INDEROSI)                      population control,
resources                                                                                        3. Revised Universal Soil Loss    transniigration. off-farm
Equation (RUSLE) Training      employment generation) will be
4. 60% reduction in erosion       effectively carried out.
5. 35-50% increase in production
and income from food crops
6. Most sites still exceed
Tolerable Soil Loss rates for
sustainahle agnculture
Project Purpose: (B-i)           Conditions that will indicate that the purpose has been         (B-3)                             Assumptions for achieving
achieved:                                                                                         purposes: (B-4)
1. To expand and improve         By the end of Phase l.a. (36      By end of Phase l.b. (year
institutional capacities, primarily    months from satisfaction of major    6)                                                                                               4-
at provincial, district, and farm  CPs)                                                                                                                                        _
levels to expenment with
altemative approaches to upland    l.a. decentralized. interagenc   l.a. decentralized           I. Annual provincial plaining     - That Government will utilize
farming and to apply these       planning system in place and      interagencv planning system      and budget conferences         the management system
approaches:                      functioning with amnual plans     fully functioning and either    2. Medium Term Plan (RIM)       described in the Project Paper
produced for project vears 1-111  expanded or ready to          3. Expansion to additional
and comprehensike plan produced    expand into broader phase 11    kabupatens in 1987/88 and in   - That Government will provide
for years IV-VI;                  program in both East and         1990/91                        the necessary manpower.
Central Java provinces:
Lb. unified budget system in      I .b. GOI prepared to initiate   I. On-Top budget for 1993/94
place and routinely functioning   broad phase If program        2. Expansion to other kabupatens
utilizing only a single INPRES    utilizing unified,               outside of UACP
system;                           decentralized budgeting as
practiced in this project;
I.c. interagency district guidance    l.c. GOI prepared to initiate   1. Plans for a National
teams and Project Management      broadly based Phase ll           Watershed Committee
Units (PMU) routinely planning    program utilizing                "Watershed Policy Clearing
and managing project.             decentralized and                House"
interagency project          2. Cimanuk Watershed and
management concepts as          National Watershed Program,
practiced in this project;      IBRD project appraisal.



Narrative Summary                         Objectively Verifiable Indicators                              Verification                 Important Assumptions
1.d. BPP and interagency        1.d. BPP and polyvalent          I. Food crop production increased
extension force effectively     extension program has proven     2. Farmers' incomes increased
planning and executing field    effective in disseminating       3. Decrease in erosion from SUFS sites
program in targeted             improved technology thmugh       4. Positive farmers' attitudes towards
subwatersheds;                  productive interaction with         conservation
farmer conservation groups:
I.e. Farmer groups organized    l.e. Methodologies for actively    I. Farmers' groups established and
and dynamically functioning;    engaging farm communities in        maintained
interactive process of develop-  2. Extension materials produced
ment in conjunction with local   3. Village seedling nurseries established
government have proven          4. National Field Day January 1993
effective and institutional     5. National Watershed Management
framework and process exists        Workshop recommends more control
on both farmer/community side       by Camat and Lurahs
and local govemment to move
into expanded phase nI
program:
I.f. Pattern established        lf. Proven performance record    1. Special Studies and Impact Studies by
involving project management    of pfivate contractors, univer-     universities and local firms
hiring private contractors,     sities, and foundations, in      2. Horticulture Studies by local
universities, and foundations to    collaboration with local        universities
provide supporting research,    communities or PMUs in           3. PSDM Evaluation by local teachers'                                         1
etc., on a routine basis to     providing services to warrant       college
project and participating       judgement that such              4. SELANI: East Java NGO SUFS sites
communities;                    collaborative action can be      5. National Watershed Management
substantially expanded during       Study by local firm
Phase I:
I.g. Evidence that program has    I.g. Public information        I. FSR radio programming
created public consciousness    programs/campaigns routinely     2. MKTI/lntemational Conference on
conceming upland productivity    informing public on upland         Conservation Policies for Sustainable
and conservation issues and     agriculture and soil and water      Hillslope Farming, Solo, March 1991
corrective actions;             conservation measures;           3. UACP National Watershed
Management Workshop, February
1993
4. Interagency newsletter



Narrative Summary                            Objectively Verifiable Indicators                               Verification             Important Assumptions
l.h. Project Management             l.h. A strong capacity for          1. MIS established and
Information System in place and     execution and management of            computerized
functioning as planned.             evaluation research exists at       2. Baseline and follow-up data
project and province level and        collection
evidence generated through this    3. Site specific erosion
effort has established basis in part  assessments
for proceeding phase II.           4. Project Completion Reports
2. Increase GOI technical     2. Farming system field laboratory   2. Research program has             1. FSR Field Laboratory in
capacity and research         and outreach sites in place and      established a diversified range of     Ungaran
processes which systemati-    functioning and initial results      profitable, but ecologically stable  2. Cash crops demonstration in
cally, and on a continuing    coming "on stream".                  technologies for upland                Penelitian Pengembangan sites
basis, improve the biological                                      communities including mitial        3. Large ruminant cut-and-carry
and socioeconomic foundation                                       results on tree crops/silvipasture     feeding system
related to upland farming                                          technology                          4. Altemative
conditions on Java                                                                                        leguminous/multipurpose tree
species hedgerows
Project Outputs: (C-1)        Magnitude of Outputs: (C-2)                                             (C-3)                               Assumptions for
By end of Phase Ia (36 months       By end of Phase lb (Year 6)                                            achieving outputs: (C4)
1. Management Systems: A      from meeting maior CPs
decentralized and unified                                                                                                                 - Adequate delegations of
management and budgetarv       l.a. Policy guidance and regulations    L.a. Management system          I. MIS established                 authority to the
system in place and           in place which authorize and define    internalized into provincial      2. PCOs and PMUs functioning       provincial and district
functioning which provides    the structure and process of         management svstems and routinely    3. Annual programs and budgets    governments
the institutional framework   decentralized and unified            applied in all districts province      prepared
and management processes      management at the provincial,        wide;                               4. Timely implementation and       - Support from relevant
for effectively extending to  district. and field levels;                                                 project reporting               Ministries
upland communities                                                                                     5. Routine reimbursement
information, technology and                                                                               monitoring                      - Acceptance of
inputs required for the                                                                                                                  responsibility and
diffusion and sustained                                                                                                                   authority by the
application of ecologically                                                                                                               provinces and districts
stable upland farming systems
technology
1.b. A unified budgetary system in   ].b. Budgetary system              Project followed Government of
place and functioning under the     intemalized into overall budgeting  Indonesia budget and planning
control and management of district  process and routinely applied in all   process
governments;                        districts, province wide;
az



Narrative Summary                             Objectively Verifiable Indicators                                  Verification                    Important
___________________________________________________________________       __________________________     _   _        A ssum ptions
I.c. Interagency District Guidance   l.c. Management systemn              (see l.a.)
Team (DGT) and Project               internalized into provincial
Management Units (PMU)               management systems and routinely
established and functioning in four  applied in all districts province
districts, evidence by:               wide;
- preparanon of annual project plans
and budgets;
- preparation of medium term
development plan for project years
TV-VI;
- integration of P3RPDAS program
and P2TP program into overall
project management structure and
systems;
I.d. Staff of 22 participating
BPP/REC have received appropriate
training on planning and
management of the SUFS Pilot
Projects;
2. Applied Farming Systems    2.a. One field laboratory and 8        2. An effective farming system       1. Permanent FSR unit set up in       - Sufficient and able
Research: Execution of a       outreach sites developing and field   research capacity existing and is       Yogyakarta as part of             staff and financing to
comprehensive program of       testing farming systems technology    routinely developing improved           Yogyakarta Upland Agricultural    carry out the program
upland farming systems         including components focused on:      technologies for field applications.    Development Project
applied research designed to   soil and water conservation and                                            2. Plans for Cimanuk Watershed        - Methodology that
improve existing and develop    management; cropping systems;                                                Development Project               moves results to
new technologies               livestock; tree crops and silvipasture                                     3. Field Lab established in          farmers within PACD.
and socioeconomic evaluation.                                                Ungaran
4. Approved GOI budget for           - Institutionalization of
1993/94 FSR activities in         farming systems
Central and East Java             research by AARD.
5. Trained personnel at Center for
Soil and Agroclimate Research,
Bogor
2.b. The acceptance of
recommendations developed by the
research.



Narrative Summary                          Objectively Verifiable Indicators                              Verification              lmportant Assumptions
3. Sustainable Upland        3. Sustainable Upland            3. Sustainable Upland Farming
Farming Systems Pilot        Farming Systems Pilot            Systems Pilot Projects:
Projects:                    Projects
Management/delivery          a. Up to three (3) BPP based     a. An established program and        1. 78 demionstration plots and     - That better technology is
systems established for the  mini watershed sustainable       process in place which has              20.141 ha of expansion areas    available or can be
diffusion of farming systems    farming system pilot projects in   introduced project supported       in Central and East Java        developed according to the
technology to upland         place in each of the four (4)    conservation and productivitv        2. Significant number of           project plan.
communities                  participating districts which    increasing technology on                spontaneous adopters            - That farmers will accept
include:                        approximately 23,000 ha equaliv      3. UACP Serves as a model for    the better technology.
divided between the provinces of       Cimanuk and National            - That the required inputs
a watershed development plan    Central and east Java:                 Watershed Program              will be available as planned.
and program;                                                         4. Soil survey in representative   - Sufficient and able staff
upland areas of East and       and financing to carry out
* 4 irrigated nursenes                                                  Central Java                    the program.
established or upgraded and                                           5. Extension system in place      - Timely pre-financing by
properly distributed among 8                                                                            the GOI.
participating districts which                                                                           - Farmers adopting the
produce sufficient grass/legume                                                                         improved practices will be in
production to meet demand                                                                               contiguous groups.
estimated at 700 ha per district
or 2,800 hectares overall;
* a program in place and
functioning which produces
"good" seed for distribution
under the program sufficient to
meet demand estimated at 700
ha per district or 2,800 hectares
overall;
* up to five strategically located
Demonstration Farms of  10
ha each in each watershed;



Narrative Summary                              Objectively Verifiable Indicators                                 Verification                     Important
Assumptions
* Pilot approaches to community      * Institutionalized process in place  I Farmers' groups
management of upland resources       for interactive decision-making      2. Inputs available in local markets
executed in selected districts which  between upland communities and       3. Participation by Non-
utilize a range of institutions (e.g.,    local government wbich result in    Governmental Organizations
conservation groups, village         efficient application of resources   4. UACP Farmers' Field Day,
councils, religious institutions) and  and sustainable upland                 January 1993
which utilize local institutions (e.g..    development and conservation;
NGOs and universities) to provide
technical backstopping to upland
communities;
b. Human Resources Development.   b. Human Resources
Execution of a field training        Development.                          1. Over 11,000 farmers formally      - Adequate institutional/
program in upland agriculture,        b.l. 2,600 local govemment              trained                           curriculae resources/
conservation practices and            decision makers, technicians,       2. Over 4,000 participants in Field    standards.
community management for              extension workers, and farmier and      Days and Comparative Study        - Adequate English
extension workers, farmers, and       community leaders trained in            Tours                             language capability on
community leaders and local           upland agriculture.                                                       part of appropriate
government decision makers            b.2. M.A. level training for 36      1. 24 Overseas Master's candidates    staff.
professionals through US Land        2. 23 Domestic Master's              - Personnel
Grant Universitv/USDA/Soil              candidates                        management that
Conservation Service work/study      3. 1 Overseas Ph.D. candidate        identifies suitable
program.                                                                  trainees and provides
b.3. An information program of                                            time for training.                  ON
newsletters, slide shows and         I. Village MPTS slide shows
movies will be brought to the        2. Brochures
villages.                            3. Posters
c. Access Roads: Access roads         c. Access Roads: 475 km of low       I. Over 613 km of all-weather        - Adequate local
established as required in sustainable   grade village access road           road constructed or upgraded       capacity/person-power
upland pilot project areas. 4 90 km    constructed and/or upgraded in      2. Total of 316 conservation access   exists to carry out the
by end of year three;                 sustainable upland farning systems      roads                             construction activities.
pilot project sites;                                                      - Effective working
relationship between
Tenaga Kerja and P.U.



Narrative Summary                          Objectively Verifiable Indicators                                  Verification                     Important
________________________________________        Assum ptions
d. Project Innovation Fund:        d. Project Innovation Fund:        1. SELANI in East Java
system established and each        system established and each        2. Sloping Land Agriculture Technology in
participating district extending   participating district extending      Central Java
grants in response to proposals    grants in response to proposals
from local institution and         from local institution and
communities.                       communities.
4. Evaluation, Planning, and       4. Evaluations conducted           Annual evaluations:
Project Appraisal for Phase II:    annually; with major evaluation at   I . SBRLKT soil conservation assessments
Periodic monitoring and evaluation    end of third and fifth years.   2. Routine semiannual reimbursement
of component activities; MIS in                                          monitoring
place and producing management                                        3. Annual reports
useful results.                                                       4. Annual planning and budgeting
conferences
Major evaluations:
1. Mid-Term Evaluation in 1989
2. Impact Studies in 1992/93
3. Special Road Study 1992/93
4. Horticulture Studies, 1989-1992
5. National Watershed Management Study
in 1992
6. Invited project impact papers for
National Watershed Management                                          -
Workshop on in February 1993



- 48 -                             ANNEX 2
LIST OF REPORTS AND STUDIES
Reports
I  Arsyad, S., Amien, I.,    Conservation Policies for  Soil and Water       1992
Sheng, T. and           Sustainable Hil1slope Farming   Conservation
Holdenhaeur. W.                                      Society, Ankeny,
Iowa, USA
2  Development              Upland Agriculture and       USAID, Jakarta       1993
Alternatives, Inc. (DA()   Conservation Project (UACP),
Proyek Pertanian Lahan
Kering dan Konservasi Tanah
1985/86 - 1992/93
3  Djati, Ketut             Project Paper, Indonesia:    USAID, Jakarta,      1994
Upland Agriculture and      Indonesia
Conservation Project
497-0311
4  Exsa International Co.   Annex to Main Report:        Exsa International   1993
Ltd., Jakarta, Indonesia    UACP Impact Study, Study  Co. Ltd.
on Farmers Attitude and
Behavior Toward
Conservation Farming
Technology (Book 111)
5  Exsa International Co.   Annex to Main report:        Exsa International   1993
Ltd., Jakarta, Indonesia    UACP Impact Study, Impact   Co. Ltd.
Study (Book I)
6  Exsa International Co.   Annex to Main Report:        Exsa International   1993
Ltd., Jakarta, Indonesia    UACP Impact Study.       Co. Ltd.
Economic Impact Study
(Book 11)
7  Exsa International Co.   Annex to Main Report:        Exsa International   1993
Ltd., Jakarta, Indonesia    UACP Impact Study,       Co. Ltd.
Sustainability of Erosion
Control Measures (Book IV)
8  Exsa International Co.   Annex to Main Report:        Exsa International   1993
Ltd., Jakarta, Indonesia    UACP Impact Study,       Co. Ltd.
Institutional Development
within UACP Work Area
(Book VI)
9  French, J.1H.            Final Report: Technical      Winrock              1992
Assistance Activities, Upland   International,
Agriculture and Conservation   Indonesia
Project, Farming Systems
Research Component, USAID
Project No. 497-0311



- 49 -                              ANNEX 2
10  French, J.H.              Final Report: Upland          Winrock               1992
Agriculture and Conservation   International,
Project - Farming Systems    Indonesia
Research Component, USAID
Project No. 497-0311
11  Harker, Bruce             Quarterly Report No. 22       Development           1992
(I Apr - 30 Jun 1992) and    Alternatives, Inc.,
Work Plan (1 Jul - 30 Sep    Jakarta, Indonesia
1992)
12  Harker, Bruce             Quarterly Report No. 24       Development           1992
(1 Oct - 31 Dec 1992) and    Alternatives, Inc.,
Work Plan (1 Jan - 31 Mar    Jakarta, Indonesia
1993)
13  Harker, Bruce             Quarterly Report No. 23       Development           1992
(1 Jul - 30 Sep 1992) and    Alternatives, Inc.
Work Plan (1 Oct - 31 Dec    Jakarta, Indonesia
1992)
14  Harker, Bruce             Final Report: Development    Development            1993
Alternatives, Inc. (DAI)     Alternatives, Inc.
technical assistance team for    Jakarta, Indonesia
the Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project
15  Harker, B. and            Effects of the upland         Development           1992
Gnagey, R.               agriculture and conservation  Alternatives, Inc.
project on farmers incomes:    Jakarta, Indonesia
Some impact study results
16  Levine, Joel              Family level baseline survey    Development         1989
results of the UACP, DAS     Alternatives, Inc.
Jrantunseluna: Volume II:    Jakarta, Indonesia
Sufs villages of Kabupaten
Boyolali, Grobogan, and
Blora
17  Levine, J. and            On the sustainability of      Development           1990
Domian, G.               project activities of the     Alternatives, Inc.
Upland Agriculture and       Jakarta, Indonesia
Conservation Project: Case
studies two: Model farm and
expansion area of Sumberejo,
Kabupaten Blitar, East Java
18  Levine, J. and            On the sustainability of      Development           1989
Prasetyo, B.             project activities of the     Alternatives, Inc.
Upland Agriculture and       Jakarta, Indonesia
Conservation Project: Case
studies of Gunung Tumpeng
and Cukilan, Kabupaten
Semarang, Central Java



- 50 -                              ANNEX 2
19  Parawansa, H.N.           Laporan Akhir: Proyek        USAID, Jakarta,       1993
Pertanian Lahan Kering dan    Indonesia
Konservasi Tanah
Journal Articles/Proceedings
I  Abdurachman, A.,         A framework for compilation   Indonesia
Sukmana, S. and          of applied research
French, J.H.             information on hillslope
farming
2  French, J.H.              Penelitian pengembanagan:    Indonesia             1993
An approach to joint research
and development
3  Harker, B. and            A summary of results: Case   Indonesia
Levine J.                studies of UACP villages
Gunung Tumpeng and
Cukiland, kabupaten
Semarang, Central Java
4  Huszar, P.C.              Government incentives for soil  Indonesia
conservation
5  Huszar, P.C.,             The sustainability of        Indonesia             1994
Pasaribu, H.S.,          Indonesia's upland
Ginting, S. P.           conservation projects
6  Huszar, P.C. and          Subsidization of upland      Indonesia             1990
Cochrane, H.C.           conservation in West Java:
The Citanduy II Project
7  Knipscheer, H.C.          Policies and priorities for  Indonesia             1993
farming systems research in
Indonesia: Lessons learned
from the Upland Agriculture
Conservation Project
8  Proyek Pertanian Lahan    Lokakarya Nasional           Dir.Jen.              1993
Kering dan Konservasi    Pembangunan Daerah Dalam    Pembangunan
Tanah (Upland            Rangka Pengelolaan Usahatani  Daerah, Departemen
Agriculture and          Lahan Kerin dan Perbukitan   Dalam Negeri,
Conservation Project)    Kritis                       Jakarta, Indonesia
9  Yuwanti S. and            Subsistence farmers in the   Indonesia
Levine J.                critical uplands of Central
Java
BATUMARTA PROJECT
1  Agency for Agricultural    Final Report: Crop-livestock   AARD, Jakarta,    1988
Research and             systems research, Batumarta,   Indonesia
Development (AARD),    Indonesia 1985-1988
Indonesia, and
International Development
Research Center (IDRC),
Canada



- 51 -                               ANNEX 2
2  Agency for Agricultural    Annual Report for 1992/1993:   AARD, Jakarta,       1993
Research and              Crop-Animal Systems           Indonesia
Development (AARD),       Research, Batumarta Dua,
Indonesia, and            Tulang Bawang Tengah and
International Development  Air Mangayau, Indonesia
Research Center (IDRC),
Canada
3  Agency for Agricultural    Final Report: Crops-animal    AARD, Jakarta,        1991
Research and              system Research, Batumarta,   Indonesia
Development (AARD),    Indonesia Phase 11 (1988/89-
Indonesia, and            1990/91)
International Development
Research Center (IDRC),
Canada



- 51 -                              ANNEX 2
2  Agency for Agricultural    Annual Report for 1992/1993:  AARD, Jakarta,      1993
Research and             Crop-Animal Systems          Indonesia
Development (AARD),      Research, Batumarta Dua,
Indonesia, and           Tulang Bawang Tengah and
International Development  Air Mangayau, Indonesia
Research Center (IDRC),
Canada
3  Agency for Agricultural    Final Report: Crops-animal    AARD, Jakarta,      1991
Research and             system Research, Batumarta,   Indonesia
Development (AARD),    Indonesia Phase 11 (1988/89-
Indonesia, and           1990/91)
International Development
Research Center (IDRC),
Canada



IBRD 18190
"N,         D eRL\ ,             '.qPHILIPPIN"LS              1'                                                                                                                                                     1130                              APRIL  1 984
.                          fACI,I\OC,AN t   r^elisocINDONESIA
AIES ' &\-^PVRQ >'Ll'laxli /    rUPLAND FARMING AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
|  J  JA VA SfEA       Sj 87                 O )                                                                                                             JAWA
",-I OAN         MAP ARA          7                                                                                                                                          SUSTAfNABLE UPLAND FARMING SYSTEMS PILOT PROJECT AREAS ISUFSI
C>_____________R,_______                                                                                      ____         ROADS
Ths 111   b-D h IWoe OaOd by                                                                                                                                               RAI LWAYS
Tne Worl0 ELAR s staff 0oChaswvoty    
for lhe                                                                                                                                                  coovehence o/ Ihe ( \ DAM S AND  RESERVOIRS
resaers and s erCk,R,eIy /or IRe                        _    
*nIeroaI.1  Th. Wdfl.                                         \                                                                                                            KABUPATEN (DISTRICTT BOUNDARIES
ana Ih6 .1emal,oRSI F-nce
Cor.o,alPo, The dnaon-                                                                                                                                                      ROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
used and T Sorabrdn ..row                       "
0n ItNrSmo M -                            ( -                   -h,                                                                                           -     -      INERNAT0ONAL BOLJNDARIES
ralIf Al he World BarA ard IhP0
-iera,oad `ar `e Corpora                                                                                                                     KLOMETERS  I'
any IdeRtS  00 Ihe legta/ s              - Jo \s                                                                                                                           1 US /
olY an  elr    n                           \s                      g               iid                                                                  10   20   30    0 5
I eooorserrao' or aCccStlrcS ot                                              /t                     \
Such  tooaha,es /DAA  AI8\PMAG<g,r 
-d-O gO,          ~     K*.* oon 8C~ 
.%2..  ANG~~~~1~~  O1OflQI0p11fl~~~~                                                           __BA
TERRAP*DDUND~,bo~,.e                           S6 6    .   G.p.r GOR8O         N                                                                   W
K ) Tooracgt9g.       ---\c ''0 1,  lSo         Y                               A              L            /      -t  -           \ }N -. Nqdwq, + > _ >                                                            J/ _
I--P Gotosco                           =Ot'                                                                                                              v Q   AndI
K !DL' .~<A t.le p.                          K wd e .4 4   _  X M LA9   LUA6^G2  EAfE
111D                                                                       1|: 120' 









IMAGING
Report No:      14744
Type: PCR



