Document of
U.S. AGENCY FOR INTERNATION4L DEVELOPMENT
FOR OFFICIAL TJSE ONLY
Report No. 4501A:6/13/84
5291-IND
PROJECT PAPER
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
UPLAND AGRICULTURE ANSD CONSERVATION PROJECT
July 5, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank or U.S. Agency for International
Development authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENB
gage
Conditions Precedent and Covenants 
Currency Ecuivalents, Weights and Measures and
Abbreviations and Special Terminology                         iii
Ececutive Summary                                                 V
Project Paper
I. Background and GOt/IDD/AID Cooperative Strategy           1
II-. Te Project                                               7
IZI. Project Organization and Management                      53
IV. Technical Assistance Requirements                        69
V. Cost Estimate and Financial Plan                         70
VI. Project Implmentation Plan                               82
VIT. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan                           87
VI. Summary of Project Analyses                                89
Annexes
1. Project Analyses
A. Tacbnical Analysis
B. Economic Analysis
C. Social Soundness Analysis
D. Administrative Analysi6
2. Government of Indonesia Letter of Pequest
3. APAC Approval Cable (83 State 252824)
4. Logical Pramework
5. Budget Annex
6. Statutory ::ecklist
7. Waivers
8. Bibliography
9. List of Working Papers and Background Material
#45 O1A: joy: 7/5/84



- ii -
0NDITIONS PrECEDENT
Condition Precedent to Initial Disbursement
Evidence that Provincial Coordination Offices and Project
Management Units have been established and that sufficient project staff
is in place to carzy out first year activities.
Conditions Precedent to Disbursement for Activities other than
Pre-Implementation Activities including Studies, Surveys, Commodities and
establishment of MIS
1.   Evidence that a Project Executive Secretariat has been established
and is formulating appropriate guidance for project implementation.
2.   Evidence that an agreement between GOI and IBRD has been executed,
which provides funding for the project in an amount anticipated in
the AID-GOI Project Agreement.
COVENANITS
1.   Government agrees to provide sufficient staff for project
activities as described in the staffing pattern included in the
AID-GOI Project Agreement.
2.   Government agrees that the funding mechanism for the project will
provide for local government responsibility and authority under the
project.
3.   Government agrees that guidance required to place project
management at the Provincial and District levels, to uinify
management, and to unify budgeting will become effective prior to
April 1, 1985.



- iisi -
CRRNCr 3{IVALENT
US$ 1 - R@. 1,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton - 1,000 kilograms (Kg) - 2205 pounds - 0.98 long ton
1 meter (a) - 29.37 inches          - 3.28 feet - 1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)                     - 10,000 mZ - 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (kn2)            - 100 ha - 0.39 square miles
ABBRZVIATIONS
AAAT]C -        Agency for Agriculture Education, Training and Extension
(UPLPP)
AARD-           Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPEDA -       Agency for Regional Development Planning (I is at
province level, II is at district level)
B XMAS -        Program of technical guidance for increasing agriculture
production that provided credit incentives
DIP -           Agriculture Intformation Centers
BKK -           Badan Iredit Recamatan - sub-district credit organization
WLPP -          Agriculture In-Service Training
BPLPP -         C See AAXTE)
BRI -           Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BW= -           Land Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation Centers, under
the Directorate General of Reforestation and Land
Rehabilitation
DG -            Directorate Ceneral in a ministry
Dinas -        Agriculture technical services at provincial and district
levels
DIP)bUP -       GOI regular budget process
FID -           Financial Institutions Development Project supported by
AID
FXP -           Forum for Coordination of Ministry of Agriculture
activities (district level)
IFY -           Indonesian Fiscal Year (April 1 - March 31)
IN3AS -         Similar to BIMAS but without credit incentives
INPRES -       Presidential Instruction re rural development programs
INPRES DATI I - Funding given to provinces for rural development programs
INSUS -        Similar to BIMAS but without credit incentives
KUD -           Koperasi Unit Desa (cooperative at the village level)
KUPEDES -       General Rural Credit Program of the BRI
LXMD -          Village council
NAEP -         National Agriculture Extension Project supported by the
ERD



- iv -
NSC -           National Seed Corporation
05R -           On-Site Research plots
Padat Karya -  Labor intensive construction metbod
PCD -           Project Coordination Office at the province level
PIp -           Project Innovation Yund
PLP -           Fleld Extension Agent, Ministry of Forestry
PMU -           Project Management uait at the district level
PPL -           Field Extension Agent, Ministry of Agriculture
PPM -           EKtension supervisor
PPS -           Subject Matter Specialist
P3RPDAS -       Reforestation and Regreening Planning and Supervision for
Watershed Program, now renamed BRLKT
PTO -           Project Training Officer in Jakarta
PU -            Pabllc Works
REC -           Rural Extension Canter
REPELITA IV -  The Fourth 5 Year Plan
SXB -           Formal agreement that ministries will cocpae.ate in an
endeavor
SUPS-           Sustainable Upland Farming Systems - the primary
component of the Upland Agriculture and Conservation
Project
WKBPP           Area served by an REC



xEaiWTIVZ SUMMARY
I. Borrower : Republic of Indonesia
II. Financing : BRD: $11.3 million (Including capitalized front end fee)
AID : $13.9 million loan
$05.0 mLillion grant
GOI : $20.0 million
III. Terms:    : IBRD: Repayable in 20 years, including a S-year grace
period, at the standard variable interest rate.
AID : Loan repayable in 40 years, with a grace period of
10 years, durirn which time interest will acme at
an annual rate of 2%. Thereafter, an annual rate
of 3% will apply on any outstanding principal and
interest due.
IV. Estimate Costs*
Local    Foreign     Total
-    _  r$ million)  --
Sustainable Upland Farming Systesa            10.6         0.9       11.5
Farming Systems Research                       3.3         0.3        3.6
Access Roads                                   4.4        -           4.4
Training                                       1.2        1.0         2.2
Institutional Development                      5.4        8.4        13.8
Project Innovation PFnd                        0.4        0.1         0.5
Base Cost              25.3        10.7       36.0
Physical Contingencies                         2.5        1.1         3.6
Price Contigencies                             8.2        2.2        10.4
Total Project Cost     36.0        14.0       50.0
Adjustment for rounding                                    0.1        0.1
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                                 0.1        0.1
Total Financing Raouired    36.0        14.2       50.2
V.  Financing PlamV
Local    Foreign     Total
- - - - ($ million)--  -
Bank                                           9.0         2.3       11.3
USAID                                          7.0       ll.9**      18.9
GOI                                           20.0         -         20.0
Total                             36 0       14.2       50.2
Net of taxes and duties
*' Including t5 million grant
1/ See Budget Tables in Annex for more detailed illustrative budget.
Varilnces in figures are due to rounding.



-vi -
PRO3ECT DESCRIPTION
I.    The Problem
The people in upland areas of Indonesia subsist primarily on
rainfed rice, cassava, peanuts and maize crops--combined with marginal
livestock and forest products. Because these sources of income have not
received much attention, the standard of living of people in the uplands
has been falling behind that of people in the lowlands. With increasing
population in upland areas, over-exploitation of resources and soil
erosion, many people in the uplands are experiencing absolute decreases
in their standard of living, from an already poor base.
Upland areas have the basic agro climatic conditions needed for
increased productivity. With improved farm management techniques,
research on new technology and increased institutional capacities to deal
with the problem, the productivity of the uplands can be substantially
increased.
xi.   Project Goal and Purpose
The goal of the Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project is to
increase farm production and incomes, while minimizing soil erosion, in
densely populated upland areas in Java by improving farming systems and
farm technologies and management. The Projectts specific purpose is to
expand and improve institutional capacities, primarily at provincial,
district and farm levels, to experiment with and apply alternative
approaches to upland far-ing.
The Project is a joint effort of AID, the IBRD and the Government.
IBRD support is being provided througa a separate agreement with the
Government.
The establishment of a Management Information System (MIS) at the
beginning of the Project is esserzial to evaluation later of whether and
to what degree the Project Goal and Purpose are met. The Project will
emphasize the continuing use of MIS techniques to maintain adequate
planning and day-to-day management.. The Project includes funds for
studies to provide Project Managers with information relevant to project
performance. Basic MIS activities may include:
(a) Technical and agro-economic profiles that will be carried out
in target areas to describe the pre-project physical, environmental,
social, institutional and agro-econcnic situation.



-vii-
(b) Regular data generation related to implementation performance
to ascertain Project status, e.g., hectares of expansion completed,
distribution of inputs (seed, fertilizer, trees, grass) and research
results.
In addition, funds will be available to contract for special
studies through appropriate local institutions or consultants. As a
general rule these studies will be short-term, not exceeding three
months, so that their findings can be applied to the planning and
implementation process without delay.
AID funds will be available for technical assistance, operating
cost and equipment for MIS, as needed.
III. Location of Project
Initially the Project vill be implemented in two districts in
Central Java within the Jratunseluna Watershed and two districts in East
Java within the Brantas River Watershed.
The decision to expand project activities to four or more
additional districts will be made jointly by the Govermment, IBRD and
9ID, based on periodic assessments of field performance, evidence that
effective provincial and district planning and management systems are
functioning and that capacity exists to expand project activities without
adversely affecting overall project management.
IV.   Prolect Activities
To allow the Project to function as a pilot project, the Government
will suspend the activities of other government programs providing
similar or competing services to the same beneficiaries. Appropriate
official guidelines will be issued to assure that other government
programs work in harmony with the experimental aspects of the Project,
especially in the project activities cited below.
To strengthen institutional capacity and to test possible
approaches to improve farming systems, technologies and management, the
Project will include five components: 1) Applied Research; 2) Sustainable
Upland Farming Systems Pilot Project; 3) Human Resources Development: 4)
Access Roads: and 5) a Project Innovation Fund.
A. Applied Research Activities
The puzpose of the research component is to develop the capacity
to produce technologies that will increase farm production and incomes
and promote soil conservation. A field headquarters with research



- viii -
facilities will be established by the Agency for Agricultural Research
and Development (AAD) within one of the target basins in a location
representative of a major ecological zone. The preferred location would
be within a radius of 20 km from Ungaran or Salatig'a, In Central Java.
This facility also will serve as a research headquarters for the upland
research conducted in the Jratunseluna Watershed, and will provide
co-munication and logistic support to the field research and support
staff. Similar facilities will be established in the Brantas Watershed,
preferrably in Malang. In addition to the headquarters and research
facilities, approximately eight on-site research plots will be
established in areas representative of the conditions found in both
watersheds. Staff for the combined headquarters and field laboratory
will include five full-time scientists and other field technical staff,
while staff at the other headquarters will include two full-time
scientists and other technical staff.
In addition to supporting the staff and development of these
research sites, funds will be available for research. It is anticipated
that research will be conducted in the following subject areas:
socio-economic evaluation, crop and livestock systems, treecrops and
silvipasture, soil and water management. These studies will be
integrated with the project field demonstration and expansion program
(described next) to insure feedback of empirical data on the performance
of different varieties and farming systems and on rates of adoption of
recosmended technology.
AID funds will be available for training equipment, vehicles and
research costs, including travel, per diem and operating costs. It is
anticipated the IBRD will finance local currency investment costs and a
portion of the research budget.
B. Sustainable Upland Farming Systems Pilot Project (SUPS)
This is an effort to improve on-farm trials and diffusion of
improved technologies and management relevant to upland areas. SUPS will
Include support for nursery development, food-crop seed production and
distribution, demonstration farms and expansion areas and subsidies.
Each of these components is described below.
(1) Nurseries. It is anticipated that a network of ten
nurseries (at least one per district) will be established under
Government auspices to manage the production and distributJon of large
volumes of grasses/legumes for use in stabilizing terraces ur in the
introduction of silvipasture on steeper slopes.
The nurseries will be established on fertile soil with
year-round access to water and will probably require at least 3 hectares
of irrigated land. To the greatest extent possible, nurseries will be



located on a main road as close to the general target area in each
district as possible. The Government will purchase or lease and develop
the land, including irrigation facilities, and fund the operating costs.
It is anticipated that one nursery per district will be
established during the initial project year in districts Boyolali and
Semarang in Central Java and Malang and Blitar in East Java.
aID funds will finance vehicles and equipment for this component.
(2) Upland Pood Crop Seeds. The Project will support the
production and/or procurement, procAsSing, storago and distrLbution of
the secondary crop planting material reqyired for both demonstration
foarms and expansion areas and, in addition, for the expected follow-on
seed demand generated by the Project.
It is anticipated that over three thousand tons of certified
rice, maize, soybean and peanut seed will be required. Budgets for
planting material development will be made availabLe one year ahead of
the season in which the seeds will be needed, to allow for the purchase
of stock seed, seed multiplication and their timely delivery to expansion
areas.
AID funds will be available for vehicles, equipment and
operating costs, including procuring and processing of plant material for
this component.
(3) Tree Crop Seedlinqs. Tree seedlings will be provided free
of charge to farmers willing to put their land under permanant vegetation
or follow sound soil and water conservation practices.
It is anticipated that seedlings will be purchased from
existing, privately owned nurseries in the project area. when improved
tree seeds are available from AARD, AARD will make arrangements to supply
nursery contractors the improved seed stock along with the specific
management recommendations from appropriate AARD staff.
AID funds will be available for the purchase and distribution of
seedlings.
(4) Demonstration Farms and Expansion Areas. Withln identified
areas, demonstration farms will be established as the principal activity
for technology demonstration and dissemination under the SUPS pilot
project. In addition to farming systems technologies, it is anticipated
that two types of conservation technology will be demonstrated initially:
bench terraces with grasses planted to stabilize the soil and grass
strips, lamtoro or other appropriate legume tree/shrubs to form a barrier
to soil erosion. If acceptable to the owners, marginal lands or lands



with low productivity and high erosion risk will be planted to
silvipasture with cash crop trees and forage grass/legumes for livestock
foed. Farmers with steep and marginal lands will be encouraged and
assisted to change from annual food crop production to permanent or
mostly permanent vegetative cover.
It is anticipated that 72 demonstration farms will be
established under the Project; over the life of the Project 23,000
hectares will be treated.
AID funds will be available for technical assistance, equipment,
commodities, vehicles and operating costs under this component.
(5) Subsidies. Farmer adoption of improved farming systems
technology will require incremental iqputs, in the form of labor,
fertilizer, pesticides, planting material and other items, above the
levels presently applied under traditional farming practices. The
Project will fund direct subsidies in the form of materials or farm
inputs for participating upland farm communities for an initial period of
their participation in the program. Specific requirements will vary from
area to area. Project officials will have the authority to adjust the
subsidy package to insure that it is appropriate to farmor needs in any
given locality.
In introducing subsidies, adherence to certain criteria will be
required.  First,  ir. rs in a contiguous area must organize themselves
into faiming units and formally request government support for their
unit. The farming group will be provided the necessary materials to
undertake farming and conservation measures, under the guidance of a
qualified technician. After completion of Lnitial activities, such as
construction of bench terraces, participating farmers will be provided
with necessary materials (such as grasses, seed, fertilizer and
pesticide) for the initial year's production. Appropriate inputs will be
provided during the second year according to the needs of the farming
system the farmers adopt. It is anticipated that subsidies will be
provided for approximately two years, and that funding for farm inputs
after the initial subsidy period will be in the form of credit from other
sources. It is anticipated that the Parties to this Agreement will focus
their credit activities on the project areas.
AID funds may be used for equipment and farm inputs, and other
approved local currency costs. The IBRD will also finance a portion of
local costs for this component.
C. Huma., Resources Development
This component includes workshops, intensive technical courses,
newsletters, study tours, demonstration visits and handbooks for
extension workers, farmers, community leaders and technical and



- xi -
managerial staff. In addition, it is anticipated that 40 PPLs will
receive diplomas in Upland Farming Extension and Soil Conservation from
Indonesian schoolsr 20 project personnel will be trained to the H.S.
level at Indonesian universities, focusing on upland management and
farming systems; and 16 project personnel will be trained abroad to the
M.S. level.
During the first year of the Project an assessment will be made
of skills needed. At the same time, a personnel management system that
maintains up to date information on individuals' experience and training
will be instituted.
Training will emphasize practical applications of technology and
will utilize field exercise as the primary instruction mode. The
training effort will be implemented by utilizing existing facilities,
experienced staff and trainers, and on-going pxograms when possible. The
Project also includes support for these elements if necessary.
Xt is anticipated that IBRD funds will be used for this activity.
D. Conservation Access Roads
Access roads are required to facilitate the movement of
materials into demonstration far=s and expansion areas, and the movement
of farm production out of these areas to markets. Approximately 475
kilometres of access roads will be constructed or upgraded in the eight
project districts during the life of the Project. The location and rate
of construction of access roads in the designated areas will depend on
the rate of development in these areas.
In addition to construction within the project areas, the
Project ban included funds to link the expansion area roads to the
existing road networks and to upgrade sections of the existing road
networks that init.bit movement from expansion areas to markets.
Construction will utilize labor-intensive methods when
possible. Roads will have a waterbound macadam surface, constructed
according to standards acceptable to the Government and AID. The concern
for soil conservation may require a higher standard and higher costs per
kilometer than is customary with conventional labor-intensive methods.
AID funds may be used to provide technical assistance and
logistics support for this component, while IBRD support is envisaged for
road construction.
E. Project Innovation Fund
The puzpose of the Project Innovation Pund (PIP) component is to
provide a flexible source of financing for studies, small pilot projects,



- xii -
field tests or other initiatives not otherwise funded under the Project
but which contribute to the Project's purpose. Funds for these
activities will be made available to non-governmental institutions, such
as local universities, foundations or private sector organizations, as
well as for experimental activities sponsored by government institutions.
Specific criteria for selecting PIF initiatives will be estab-
lished by the Government and AID during the first year of the Project.
It is anticipated that by the end of the Project, each
participating district will have an active portfolio of such activities.
The initial results of these will be evaluated for broader application
within the Project.
AID funds will be available for this activity.
V.    Implementation
Government will issue appropriate instructions to effect
collaboration and coordination among the participating ministries as
reqhired (1) for effective implementation of the project components; and
(2) for the Project to meet its goals and purposes. Because of the
involvement of many Government agencies and the need for local level
planning and implementation, the lead agency for the Project will be the
Ministry of Home Affairs WKA.); the Ministries of Agriculture and of
Forestry will be the primary technical agencies (Chart). MRA will
approve the overall annual plans and budgets, which will be sumnitted to
AID for approval.
The Governors of Central and East Java, or their dtIignees, will be
the principal decision-makers responsible for overall project direction
and performance, except for the research and training components of the
Project.  The provincial level administration will also be responsible
for assisting district level governments to plan, manage and monitor
field programs in upland agriculture development and for establishing
standards for district performance and will help district agencies
strengthen capacities accordingly.
To facilitate the efficient execution of the Project, the Governors
of Central and East Java will be authorized to create and staff a Project
Coordination Office (see Chart I). Each governor will appoint a
full-time provincial Project Coordinator to provide overall project
leadership. Each Project Coordinator will be supported by a full-time
staff composed of a planning officer, a monitoring and evaluation
officer, a finance officer and supporting administrative staff. Each
participating provincial technical agency will appoint a staff member to
be responsible for that agency's technical input into the Project. These
line agency project representatives will work closely with the Project



-xiii-
Coordination Office staff to insure that overall project planning and
implementation is fully syncronized and integrated. Technical Assistance
financed under the Project will work under the direction of the
provincial Project Coordinator.
The district chiefs of each participating district will be
responsible to their provincial governor for overall planning and
coordinated implementation of the Project in their respective districts.
Appropriate authorities will be delegated to participating district
chiefs to insure the effective administration of project activities at
the district level.
The governor of each province will appoint, on the advise of the
district chief in each participating district, a full-time Project
Manager and supporting staff and authorize the creation of a Project
Management Unit (PMU) for each district (see Chart 1). The Project
Manager will be responsible for overall project direction. Each project
component (e.g., the SUFS pilot project and access roads) will be planned
and implemented by the appropriate technical line agency(ies) under the
overall direction of the district chief and the Project Manager. Each
project component, with the exception of the training component and the
Project Innovation Pund, will be under the direct day-to-day management
of a line agency sub-project manager who, for purposes of this Project,
will reoort to the respective district Project Manager.
The District Forum for Coordination of Agriculture Extension (E2CPP)
will be responsible for the direction and performance of the Sustained
Upland Farming System (SUFS) component of the Project. A senior
professional from one of the four participating technical services will
be appointed by the district chief to serve as the sub-project manager
for the SUFS component. The FKPP will meet at least quarterly to review
project performance, and to agree on plans and budgets for the SUPS pilot
project.
To insure the unified execution of the Project and efficient
financial management, the project budget, financed through Inpres Dati I,
will be dispersed under the direction of each provincial Project
Coordinator, who will sub-allocate funds to the respective district
Project Managers. District Project Managers will, in turn, authorize
disbursement to the responsible sub-project component managers
responsible for field implementation.
The extension of services to the farmers will be through a unified
extension system centered at and managed from the GOI's network of rural
extension centers (REC) in the project area. The Ministry of Agriculture
will issue the necessary instructions to its personnel and various
elements to effect this unified extension management at the REC level.



-xiv -
Primary responsibility for implementation of con.ervation access
roads, and Sustained Upland Farming Systems piVot projects (SUFS) will
rest with the concerned technical agencies, namely Public Works,
Agriculture and Forestry.
The Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) will be
responsible for formulating and coordinating agriculture research policy
ander the Project with the Ministry of Home Affairs and other relevant
agencies. AARD will be supported in formulating their research
priorities by the Directorate General within the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Forestry's Directorate General for Reforestation and Land
Rehabilitation and selected agriculture colleges.
VI.  Financial Plan
A. Budget Source
The project has been organized around four basic principles:
decentralized management, unified management, unified budgeting and
community participation. With respect to the concept of unified
budgeting, the government is expected to make every effort to provide
project specific funds through the Inpres Dati I channel. To meet the
financial requirements of the Project without undue disruption of other
onrgoing programs being financed by the provinces through Inpres Dati I,
special projct allocations will be provided that are in addition to the
regular Dati I allocations.
If necessary, due to restrictions in Inpres Dati X, the
government will issue special guidelines, if required, so that the
project Dati I allocation mar be used to finance the expenditure
categories outline in the Pruject Paper.
B. Project Activities
a. Technical Assistance. All technical assistance costs will be
financed by AID and the Government. AID will directly contract with
three organizations to provide technical assistance for the project. One
contract will be in the form of a PASA with the USDA/Soil Conservation
Service for technical services at the central level. The second AID
contract will support two field technical teams located in the project
areas in East and Central Java. This contract will be open for
competitive bidding to firms from Code 941 countries. Joint venture
arrangements or sub-contracts with qualified Indonesian consulting firms
will be encouraged. It is anticipated that AID will contract with one or
more of the international agriculture research centers to support the
collaborative research program with AARD. It is also anticipated that
there will be other AID direct cor:Lracts, generally under $10 0,000, for



- xv -
management informAtion and evaluation studies and for other activities
supporting project implementation. AID will contract with
Indonesian-based financial consultants to assist in the development of
appropriate financial management systems and to carzy out training of
project staff in the application of these systems.
b. Conmodities. It Is anticipated that all commodities (e.g.
office equipment, data processing equipment, agriculture processing
eqyipment, vehicles, etc.) will be financed by AID under direct payment
procedures.
c. Training. It Is anticipated that all training, both
in-country and international, will be financed by the IBRD. The
Government will follow the applicable IBRD financial procedures.
a. Construction. All in-country construction for facilities
associated with the Farming System Research and SustainAble Upland
Farming Systems components will be financed by the 3BRD and the
Government, and will follow applicable IBRD financial procedures. In
addition, the Conservation Access Road component will be entirely
financed by the IBRD and the Government. Road constructions will be
pre-financed by the Government. It is anticipated that up to 60% of
costs will be reimbursed by the IBRD.
e. Joint IBRD/AID Local Currency Financing. Local cuzrency
costs for two project components, Fasming System Research and the
Sustainable Upland Farming System pilot projects, will be jointly
financed by AID, IBRD and the Government. These costs are for salaries
and local support costs. The financial management procedure to be
applied for each component is described below.
(1) Farming Systems Research. AID and IBRD will
collectively finance 581 of the annual operational research budget for
this project component. AARD will 100% pre-finance the annual research
budget which will subsequently be reimbursed up to 584 of actual cost by
both AID and IBRD.
(2) Sustainable Upland Farming System Pilot Projects
(SUPS). AID and IBRD will jointly finance the annual subsidy provided
for demonstration farms and expansion activities under the SUPS component
on a reimbursement basis.
f. Project Innovation Fund (PIF). AID will finance the PIF
Cost8 on a grant reimbursement basis. Disbursements under the PIF will
be made only upon certification by the AID project officer. Separate
accounts will be maintained by recipient institutions in a manner
acceptable in form and content to AID.



- xvi -
B. Budget
The following is an illustrative flinancial plan. Adjustments
may be sade between line items by the representatives of the Parties in
the text of the Agreement without fexmal amendment of this Agreement so
long as (a) the Borrower/Grantee's contribution as stated in the text of
the Agreement is not decreased and C(b) AID's contribution as stated in
the text of the Agreement is not increased.



aCart I
Uvland Agriculture and Oonservation Proiect Or"animation
LeWad                                                              I
lMiniatry             Iupporting  irnsatriee s
Iminhetryl         iNinktrylMNinietryll4inietrylninhetyryiNinhltryl
Hational   I of    IbAPpnAsI  ot    I ot    I  of   I   Of   I   of   I                                                                  | Agency for Ali-   I
Level       Home             IfLnance                                  pub nrAqaLoul-Iioreatyt Publlo I                               | cultural Research  I
I Affair. I       I         I 9nviron.    ture  I         I Works                               I                                   an|  d
…|--|   Task orce                       I----------------------------------------------- ID_Il_t__A_  t
Frovin-   I Governor I                                                                                                                                 I
daln  Lovel                        Provincial Guidance Teaa                                                                                           I
- I    I Vice I Vice I Go- I                                                                                                  I_    _
l    IChaimanlChair-IChtair-I  re  I                    N  a  a  b  e  r  a                    |                     | Agency for Agricaulture
I lmantlon III tary I                                                                                         I Research and Develonc |
II                                       |         | I     I I                                                 I-  (AARD|   Team Leader   |
I    I  PUmA I FtIW al P         ltOAI  UAI Agri- IrorestryIPublial Land I AARM  I     I       I                                      T
I    1 ..............1  I     I       |culturel         I Workls. Use |         |I |
I-i---                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~TAIXIeI
| I                                                               - planning, alt.  eytms,                                 I
|         | IPRWJECY OrORDINATZtO  OFFICS (POX)                                A hI1/tvaluAtion syxtm_
I          I       _   __denlopnt/guidance
|    I Project CoordinatCor    I                                             - technical asaLstancI
|    | Planning Officer                        T | technical Aelsstanc- e      through line offices                                   |
|    | HIS/Evaluation Officer                       O o Ontractor      |     - annual budget preparation/                             |
|    I Finance Officer           I                                             coneolidation
| Dleerlot |
Chlot    |                                               DLstrict Guidance  ean                                                           I
I    Viae                                          N  emabera                                                 I 
_ I------------ Chair-  Chair  seer-1                       food    R state I Livn- I nur-  I Coope- C          I Land I        I
IPimpro                  I          I man      man    tary I PUI  Croos  Crops  I  to; I SplKTI rativaes  AAIID I  Usel                  I
I Planning Officer         1
H IlS/Evaluation officer |                                                                                                                       I
I Finance Officer                                                                                                                                I
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~r  Ks _. P. . .
P U                              I rood Crave   Livestoa      &tte,r Soil Canrervatlo" I AmsA                        A A R 0  
0   -   &           a           |            t                                    lPl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feld Labor4to!Z
IAccessl 
I                                              |IB P r I                                                        I On-site  I
I           I                                                      Rseh I
I      .                                                                                                           Resear-
I Direct to  xpansion )rea I              W                                              I
e Expansion I           I Expansion I         I Expansion I
|   Area    I                                     A Area    |  |  Area    I
1146Aljoyo6/28/e4



Table 22
umayn of mtlaatad            Wet. bz Prolect Vaar*
|        Pro1ect Year Irv                       0    I   I          2         3         4                   6    I    Total      |    Total       |
| fro1 et CeWDonent                           04/65  1 a 5/6      86367    i7i        6      JI19      91  I  an.Oa000   I    uuo                 I
i Iartitutional Deveoomenat                   230.7  M2636   1 2626.     27:::0   21:::    15696 6   1063.0           13775.7         12775.7     1
N iational iAvel uxecutive 0ecroterit           M 5 4 I    304 1   30a.4                 2. 30.4 I   3.4 I                              232.0
|  ProVincial Level OrgaIintIon lo   Mgt.    1 09.6 9    123.3 9   123.9 1  129.. 126. I  126.6    123.                 961.6           911*G
| District Level OrganiAtion & Nlgt.           245.2 |  152.4 |   152.4 |  416.4 |  304.6    304.8 |  204.8            1632.6    1    1982.9
| Tohnical Asletanes                       |  426.3   2324.4 | 7324.4 | 2174.4 1 1724.4 1 1105.6    599.0 e           10678s    |   i67.s 
f rming   tmyee Puaoh O2pponent            1  771.1            I  45s6 .7    L 456.7    A 451.7    441.7    441.7      3616.3   1!6               I
I Znveetment                               |  114.0|   5s.09 |                     I         I         I         I      229.6    I      2139.0
R eruearh, Traning and Recurrent coets         567.1 |  541.7 1  456.7      4 56.7 |  451.7 1  441.7      4 441.7 1    2377.3         3 7377.3   |
| Justainable Upland Farmineates t                   |         |         |         |         |         |         |               |                |
| Pilot Proleat  inaludirgW  e ratlve   |            |                   I         |         |         |         |               |                I
a Hsed DeelotinntL                         I  902.S 7  55.3 I 1241.3 I 1662.4 | 2222.7 I  692.6 | 2164.e3   I 11!j3.3    |   11513                I 
Investment                              I  3060 1   16.0eQ    3320. I   62.6 I            I         I         1      725s.6          725.6     |
uRecurrent Cbst                         1  456.7 1  320.6 1  532.0 1  717.0 0    730.8 1  730.6 1  730.6            4227.5    1    4227.5      1
|  urS Bubsidy                             |    9.6 I   111.2 |309.0 I       61.u      1491.9 | 1963.0 1 1453.6 1    6299. 3           62".2      1
| beed ProcesLing Operation                |  130.0 |   130.0 I          I         |         |         |         I      a60.0    1      260.0     |
| aman  mourzes Develoent Wmonet    |   40.3 I   219.1 |  392.0 |  442.6 |  456.. |  422.6 |  270.4                   a2244.           2244.5     |
Cbnaervation Accese  Roade  ?onent        |   66.0 |   75.9 |  362.1    6132.5 |  950.5 | 1103.9    j i.j            A 4409.9    |    44    9
j Prolect Innovation tuni (Ir) jr                                  100.0 j   100.       000 j  100.0 I   l0.-O          500I0           500.0
Total Sao* Costs                           2713.6   4114.2   5208.6   6066.2   6370.         4330.  1___ I74       36060.7    I   36040.7
j    Cont1nencaL  (105 of bhae coet)       1  271.4    411.        52091606.6 637.0    633.1    525.7                  36061    1
total gae Costes  Cntin.ence.              2965s.0   4525.6 I S729.5    66723 | 7007.1 I 6943.7 I 5762.1 |   fJj6             | *Jj6S
I                                   I         I         I       .1          I         Inlas10_7-    I96-    57 I.  396.        3I6
Price Continoencisos 0% CoNounded)                 3 I   16.0  0 630.2 | 1501.4 | 2177.0 I 2603.2 1 2040.5      10469.9    1   10469.9
EIIBRDOln        r                                   I         I r                 I         I         I         I      100.0    1      100.0
I TOTAL fRA lI? camT                       I 2984.0 1 4642.4 1 6559.7 I 8174.2 1 9184.9 I 9766.9 1 3623.6              50235.7    1   50235.7    1
I                                          I  _        _  I     ,-_  I    , _   _- I ,  _                        I       - I       ~~
* Due to rounding line item  within eompon nts may not add.
01462A jors6/29/84



PROJ7ECT PAPER
UPLAD AGRZULTURE AND COHSERVAT!ON PROJECT
#420 A



#4200A:07/03/84:Joy
UPLAND AGRIC1LTURE AND CONSERVAT NO PROJECT
I.    BACKGROUND AND GOI/1BRD/AID COCPERATIVE STRATEGY
A. The Problem
1.01.   Over the past decade Indonesia has transfozmed itself from the
world's largest rice importer into being virtually self-sufficient in
rice production. This success rests mainly on the irrigated lowlands of
Indonesia, and it has carried a cost in terms of the relative neglect of
upland areas where most of the poorest rural Indonesians live.
1.02.    The people in upland areas subsist pri-arily on rainfed rice,
cassava, peanuts and maize crops along with marginal lvestock and forest
products. Because of the comparative neglect of these areas, the
standard of living in the uplands has been falling behind that of the
lowlands. With increasing population, over exploitation of resources and
soil erosion, many people in the uplands are even experiencing absolute
decreases in their standard of living from an already poor base.
1.03.   Upland areas are weLl endowed with the basic agro-climatic
conditions needed for increased productivity. What is missing in the
uplands are: (a) proper dissemination and application of known
technology, (b) research for new technology suitable for upland -
conditions and (c) improved organization and management systems, both at
the national and at the local level.
1.04.   Table 1 presents the comparative yields of major crops in
Indonesia and other countries. The fact that Indonesia is considerably
below Thailand and Malaysia in yields for upland crops indicates the
potential for improving yields of these crops in Indonesia and shows that
the technology for increasing yields is available in the region.
1.05.    There is little question that a major, and increasingly severe,
constraint on the production of upland crops in Indonesia is the
increasing pressure of population in upland areas, with consequent loss
of soil and water resources. Although there are formidable problems in
measurement and even in precise definition of soil erosion, there is
little doubt that the situation in Indonesia, particularly on Java, is
severe and deteriorating.
1.06.   Historical data from the Cilutung Watershed in West Java show
sediment losses steadily increasing during this century, from about 1 mm
per hectare in 1911 to 2 am in 1935 to around 6 mm today (van Dijk and
Vogelang, 1948; ITC, 1976, cited in El-Swaify, 1983). The GOI now
classifies over one million hectares of land on Java, or about 8 percent
of the arable area, as *critical land," i.e., land so degraded that it
is, or soon will be, unable to sustain even subsistence agriculture
(USAID-GOI, 1983).



-2-
Table 1
Yields of Various Cops in Indonesia Compared with.
Those of Other Asian Countries, Japan and the US, 1981
(tons/ha)
United
Comodity     Indonesla   *   Philippines  Thailand  Malaysia Japan States
Paddy rice      3.67    1.30      2.21        2.08      2.82    5.63  5.46
Corn            1.46   0.67       0.96        2.16      1.14    3.00   5.71
Cassava         9.72    0.57    11.50        17.50     10.29      -      -
Peanuts a)      1.15    0.43      0.64        0.65      2.68    1.27   2.08
Soybeans        0.89    0.56      0.89        0.84      1.60    1.46   2.05
Sweet Potatoes  7.53   0.78       4.68        8.99      9.61   20.32 12.94
Sugazcane      99.21    2.12    46.74       38.75      44.74   66.22  88.80
EIndonesia as a percentage of the highest yields among the three other
ASEAN nations.
a) Shelled basis, derived from "in shell" yields using a conversion factor of
0.7.
Soaxe: World Bank, Indonesia: POLICY OPTIONS AND STRATEGIES FOR MAJOR
FOOD QOPS (1983, Report No. 3686.IND)



-3-
1.07.    Estimates of annual soil loss from sixteen sites, presented in
Table 2, range from 0.24 to 10.6 DUD/yr. Losses on most sites
significantly exceed the annual rate of soil formation, which is
esti-mated to be about 2.4 ma/yr (Ramer, 1980/1982). But 4-hese
catchment-wide figures mask the severity of the problem. Most soil
erosion comes from small, private land holdings worked by low income,
subsistence farmers. These intensively cultivated plots cover only
one-quarter to one-half of the land area of most watersheds, but may have
soil losses as high as 50 mm/yr. Continued erosion at these levels leads
to complete loss of productivity within only a few years. These areas
are the source of Java's rapidly growing critical lands and the major
object of this project.
1.08.    Finding solutions to the problems of upland productivity and
loss of soil and water resources is complicated by the wide variation in
agro-climatic and demographic conditions in the Indonesian archipelago.
Three basic demographic/agro climatic typologies capture conditions found
in Indonesia watersheds:
-  densely populated, humid watersheds (Java, Bali and Madura);
-  sparsely populated, humid watersheds (Sumatra, Kalimantan and
parts of Sulawesi and Irian Jaya);
-  sparsely populated, drought prone watersheds (East and West Nusa
Tenggara, East Timor and parts of Sulawesi and Irian Jaya).
1.09.    Each typology requires a range of technical solutions and
institutional arrangements that are, at best, only partially in place.
No single, standardized program will work; research and extension
programs need to be tailored to each of the three typologies. The
GI/MBRD/AID strategy outlined in Section I.C focuses attention and
resources on the densely populated/humid watersheds of Java.
B. Relationship of Project to GOI, AID and IDRD Priorities
1.10.    The Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project adheres to the
priorities of the implementing agencies as outlined below.
1.11.    The GOI attaches high priority to area development programs that
address problems of food production and income of rural farmers in
poverty areas and has initiated a range of agriculture development and
conservation programs. The GOI also has made a substantial commitment of
resources to the National Regreening Program, which addresses the rapidly
deteriorating conditions found in the nation's watersheds (particularly
on Java, Bali, Madura and the eastern islands of the archipelago).
Budget and staff for the Regreening Program have increased steadily since
the Program's inception in 1976.
1.12.    The GOI is also aware of the decreasing returns to incremental
investments in irrigated agriculture on Java and, as stated in the
recently completed Fourth Five Year Plan (Repelita IV), will place much
greater emphasis during the next plan period on exploiting the production
potential of the country's rainfed, upland areas.



-4-
Table 2
BUMMARY o0  RZSUIIS OF BOIL *R0StON BTUDIUSY
|                                   |                                             | Catchment | Sedientation |                                    |
|  Catchnent Area (Province)                                B 6o0l  type             Area      | Rate per ha ofl             source                I
(2)              I (t2) (3)| Land (mm) (4) |                  (5)                 |
I CiIu II Iaa                                                                     I                            I                                   'I
I Cl-anuk (We Java)               I 9blcanlo products, marl, lateritic soil   I   N/A            0.24          Nollerworger (1964)
| Pengaren near Seoarang (C. Java) | Marl, l3iestona, lateritlo soil                    N/0 4                    H |ollerworger (1964)             |
s 8erayu near Clacap         --    I Volcanic products, marl, lateritic soil   I   i/A    |  1.6               | Iollerworger (1964)               1
| Rambut near Tegal          --    | Volcanic                                     1   45.0    1   0.42         | Van Dijk and Shrenaron (1972)   |
| Cacaban                    -A  Marly                                            |  79.0    |  4.5            I Van Dijk and Zhrenoron (1972)   |
| Research catchment near Carut    | Volcanic forest                              |    0.044  | 0.2 - 1.1      | Caughran (1972)                   1
Cimamaja                 (W. Java) I Volcanic and clay sauly soil                     " N/A    1 1.0 - 1.4    | De Haan (1952)                    |
Cilulung near Kadipaten   --    | Mainly breocias, sandstones, olaystones,  I 620.0    | 1.0 (in 1911) | Van Dijk and Vogelzang (1948)   |
I                            ---    I Rarly sediments                             I            i 2.0 (in 1934) 1                                   1
| Cloanuk at Parakankondang --      I Malnly volcanic                             1 1480       I   3.7           N NZCDSM-8C (1973)                I
| Cilulung at tUum weir      --    I see description for Cilulung above           | 600        I  8.0          | NIEco-SmEC (1973)                 I
| 8erayu at Banyu-aa                I                                             | 2665       1   3.8           S SYZC (1974)                     |
I Pokacangan at lrengkel            | White clays                                 1 129            5. 6        I SHEC (1974)
1 Segaluh at Krasak                 I                                             I  190      |   0.45         | 8KC (1974)                        I
I Jragung at Jragung         --    I                                              1  94           106           IC I W 1976)                       |
i Jratunseluna Upper catchoente (average) (C.Java)                                | 4786       |   3.4         I PRC/ECI (1980)                    1
| 8erang at Kedung Ombo (C. Java)  I Volcanic and sedimentary                     | 614        |   3.1'        | SKZC (1982)                       |
1/ Review and updating of the Serang Rlver Projecti SKUC September 1992
*   In situ density of soil (or specific weight) varies with soil type and generally ranges from 1.0 to 1.5 t/n3.  Estimates of average soil
lose rates may vary depending on the value used. Ylgures marked with an asterisk are based on an asameed density of 1.5 t/3. N/A -,Not
Available. 1 mm/ha - 12-15 T/ha depending on density of the soil.
*4084Aajoya6/28/84



1.13.   Three of the central these stated in USAID/Indonesia's Country
Development Strategy Statement (COSS) are: increasing food production and
rural productivity, especially the agricultural productivity and incomes
of poor upland farmers; strengthening the capacity of local governments
to plan and manage developmnt programs that reflect the priorities and
specific needs of local communities; and improving measures to protect
and enhance Indonesia's natural resources. AID's Provincial Development
Program already supports three agriculture/conservation efforts following
these themes in the provinces of Musa Tenggara Barat (NTh), Nusa Tenggara
Timur (NTT) and on the island of Madura. The Upland Agriculture and
Conservation CUAC) Project addresses these same themes as well as broader
AID policy concerns regarding institutional development and technology
tranxfer.
1.14.   While the World Bank's main support to agriculture continues to
focus on the irrigation and estate crop sectors, it also stresses
strengthening other agricultural activities. The IBRD supports a pilot
watershed effort in the areas of Gunung Kidul ard Xulon Progo as part of
the Jogyakarta Integrated Rural Development Project. Technical and
investment support for activities that will significantly contribute to
improving and stabilizing upland farming is now a high priority in Bank
lending policy. The Bank found it difficult to identify a project
focused on upland productivity and conservation that complemented the
existing portfolio of Bank assisted projects in the agriculture sector.
The UAC Project blends with current Bank projects and may provide the
basis for a broader lending strategy if it proves to be a replicable
model.
C. GOIS/ID/AID Cooperation Strate=y
1. 1s.   The GOI presently in implementing a nationwide conservation
program in 35 watershods. This program includes all three
demographic/agro climatic typologies previously mentioned. However, 13
watersheds of the densely populated/humid tropic typology, located
primarily on Java, have been give priority.
1.16.   Current IIRD and AID interventions in two densely
populated/humid regions of Java (the Jogyakarta Integrated Rural
Development Project and the Citanduy Project) are focused on addressing
constraints outlined above. The proposed UAC Project will expand this
focus in Central Java and begin acctivities in East Java. (See Map 1.)
1.17.   The proposed project in the Jratunseluna and Brantas Watersheds
will be implemented in two phases. Phase I, implemented over a 7 year
period, will establish the decentralized institutional base and initial
field program. Phase II, implemented over the following 10 years, will
focus on a Java-wide expansion program in conjunction with the Citanduy
and Jogyakarta upland agriculture and conservation programs.



Hop I
ipemis     sells                                                                                        0



-7-
1,18.   The Phase I effort will be divided into two stages.  During
stage one, the project wilL work in two districts in Central Java and two
districts in East Java. Pbcus will be on establishing a decentralized
management and delivery system under district government management that
effectively integrates component project activities. During stage two
the project will expand to two or more districts in each province when it
has been dete-rined that the management, planning and input delivery
systems in the initial target districts are effectively functioning.
1.19.   The GOl, IBRD and AID have agreed on a combined effort to
develop appropriate technology and institutional solutions to the
problems outlined above. The two phase program will be carried out
through combined GOI/IBRD/AID planning and management. Donor financing
will be provided on both a 'parallel" and a 'joint' basis; USAID will be
the lead inpleemnting agency on the donor side for the Phase I effort.
Phase II donor leadershtip most likely will be vested with IBRD.
II.  THE PROECT
A. Project Goal and Purpose
2.01.   The goal of the Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project is
to increase farm production and incomes, while minimizing soil erosion,
in densely pcpulated upland areas in Java by improving farming systems,
farm technologies and management.
2.02.   The project's specific purpose is to expand and improve
capacities of provincial, district and farm levels institutions to
experiment and apply alternative approaches to upland farming.
B. Project Strategy and Phasing
1. Project Strategy
2.03.       In order to strengthen institutional capacity and test
possible approaches to improve farming systems technologies and
management, the project will have five primary components: 1) Applied
Farming Systems Research; 2) Sustainable Tpland Farming Systems Pilot
Projects; 3) Human Resources Development; 4) Conservation Access Roads;
and 5) a Project Innovation Fund. These flve components are designed to
strenghten and reinforce each other. Each component will have a learning
dimension, with the exception of the roads component, which applies known
technologies and management procedures.
2.04.       The project will increase productivity and sustaInability of
upland agriculture within the project area and, in doing so, will create
prototypes for an efficient and responsive national program. Authority,
resources and staff of cooperating central agencies will be provided to
various levels of local government to experiment with approaches outside
normal program prescriptions. The project will also support independent
and collaborative activities of selected local public and private groups
in the experimental process.



-8-
2.05.        The approaches to be developed and applied under the projet
will seek3 to strengthen the self-reliance of selected communitles by
increasing their ability to manage the adoption and dissemination of
improved agricultural technologies, to conserve the land and water
resource base and to build the social relationships required for
self-reliance. This effort recognizes the potential for cocmunity
initiative, the limitations of government resources and administrative
capacities and, most importantly, the diversity of upland micro-
environments. New technologies that are suited to local conditions and
that use the skill and initiative of the individual farm household are
required.
2.06.        The project will require a participatory and integrated mode
of agricultural research based on an understanding of existing farming
practices, their underlying logic and the constraints to adoption of
alternate practices. It also requires an agricultural extension service
able to assist farming communities in identifying priority needs and
opportunities, share expertise among themselves, communicate their needs
to researchers and gain information to solve their problems and to
exploit new opportunities. In such a system the extension agent acts as
a broker of relationships as well as a conduit for technical
information. Strong, direct, two-way relationships are required between
extension agents, fanmers and researchers. There must be ready access to
essential agriculture support services.
2.07.        Substantial reorientation and development of new capacities
within the assisting agencies will be required. Neither can be achieved
directly, but the project is intended to support the processes whereby
responsible managers of the relevant agencies may bring them about--by
providing a mandate and by making available flexible sources of technical
assistance and capital.
2.08.        The strategy looks to the province as the focal point for
develop-ent of area specific programs   Added to the Jogyakarta
Integrated Rural Development Project and the Citanduy Project, the UACP
will coplete the network of province based upland development
laboratories on Java.
2.09.        The selected districts will serve as field laboratories for
learning how to improve existing programs by applying four basic project
ccrcepts: Decentralized Management, Unified Management, Unified
Budgetary Systems, and Community Participation and Management. Each
participating district will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU),
responsible to the district chief, for the coordinated management of
upland agriculture development activities within that district. This PMU
will be a prototype for eventual creation of a permanent mechanism for
district level coordination of upland development and conservation
activities.
2.10.       Each participating province will establish a Project
Coordination Office (PCD) that will support the development of prototype
programs, management systems and institutional capacities. They will



-9-
take the lead in developing data collection and diagnostic methodologies,
will contract with local Indonesian research and training institutions
for technic.' support and will manage the Project Innovation Fund.
2.11.        The Ministry of home Affairs, supported by a full-time
Executive Secretariat with staff from the Ministries of Agriculture,
Forestry, and Home Affairs, will provide policy guidance and sanction for
the experimental actIvities carried out by the project and will assume
responsibility for assessing and acting on broad policy issues.
2.12.       Key to the project strategy is the distinction between:
(a) responsibilities for managing the process of developing new program
approaches and supporting management systems and (b) responsibilities for
man iging the actual planning and implementation of program operations.
The former will be the primary responsibility of the Project Coordination
Office.  The latter will be the responsib City of appropriate permanent
units of provincial and distri.ct administrations.
2. Phasing
2.13.        It is assumed that expanded project operations in the
remaining four or more districts will commence beginning the fourth year
of the project (IFY 1987/88), with staff recruitment, training and
planning initiated in the preceeding fiscal year (IFY 1986/87).  However,
the decision to ccumence project operations in additional districts will
depend entirely on actual field performance. The decision to expand
operations will be made independently for both Central and East Java,
reflecting the autonomous operation of project activities in each
province.
3. Replicability
2.14.       The project is designed to be administratively and
tactically replicable if the pilot project methodology is followed.
Since the government has made the decision to embark on a national
program to increase the productivity of the uplands and to stabilize the
upland environment, this project will serve as the field laboratory for
design of the major program by presenting cost effective options for
further expansion.
2.15.       The project will seek ways to have an effective operation
and yet limit the number of government personnel required. It also will
seek to define the minimum levels of inputs required by the subsidy
program.
2.16.       Government personnel, technically trained and experienced,
will be mcved to new expansion areas as the project moves to Phase II. A
commnmnity-based organization of key farmers will remain as the primary
interface for continuing transfer of technology. The continued
improvement in local agriculture will be supported by: (1) effective,
uni :ied management of the remaining thinned-out government cadre,
(2) local non-government institutions and (3) an improved system of



- 10 -
agriculture comuunication. For example, the project supported
agriculture/area newsletter might prove to be an effective communications
tool, reducing the need for extension agents. Certainly the improved
road net will increase the flow of information to the farners.
4. Management Information System
2.17.        There is no standardized "blueprint" for the development of
upland agriculture and conservation practices. Rather, the central
operational concept of the project is learning-by-doing, which depends on
the capacity to monitor the project's output  The establishement of
provincial and district Management Information Systems CMIS) capable of
routinely generating data on output performance and providing infomnation
to project authorities is, therefore, a central component of the
project. Accordingly, an effective management information system will be
required prior to expanding the project into additional districts.
2.18.        In addition to the MIS for daily management, project staff
and technical assistance personnel at province and district levels will
carry out annual assessments that examine reasons for success or failure
of each component activity and recommend modifications.
2.i9.       The internal annual assessment and planning process
undoubtedly winl uncover many issues that will require additional data
and analysis before action recommendations can be formulated. To address
these issues, the project will fund short-term (3 months or less) special
studies through appropriate local instituti.ns or consultants.
2.20.       Several external evaluations, independent of project
authorities, will be carried out during the life of the project. These
evaluations will re-appraise project concepts, design, allocation of
funds, staffing patterns and componert activities in light of the
previous year's performance. The first external evaluation, carried out
during the third year of project activity (IFY 1986/87), will determine
if and when the additional districts will be brought into the program.
The second mid-term review, during the fifth or sixth year of project
activity (i,e. IFY 1988/89 or 1989/90), will focus on whether a Phase II
program should be initiated. A final project evaluation will be carried
out during the last year of the project and will be a comprehensive
assessment of the Phase I effort.
C. Project Area
1. General Location
2.21.       The project will be implemented in Central and East Java
within the catchment areas of the Jratunseluna Watershed and the Brantas
River Watershed respectively (Maps 2a and 2b). These two watersheds are
among five designated for priority attention by the GOI during the
1980s. The eight project districts in these two watersheds have 251,649
hectares of rainfed land, of which 82,318 ha are critical land according
to the Soil Conservation Service (Sub-BRZrr). Over 1/3 of the total
rainfed area in these districts suffers from serious erosion.



- 11 -
2.22.       The Jratunseluna Watershed, with an area of approximately
800,000 hectares, includes six major catchment areas draining five major
rivers, the Jragung, Tuntang, Serang, Lusi and Juwana from which the name
Jra-tunr-se-lu-na Is derived. The watershed falls within the
administrative jurisdiction of nine districts, four of which (Semarang,
BoyolaLi, Blora and Grobogan) will be included in the project's seven
year first phase. During initial years of the project, activity wvil be
focused in two districts (Semarang and Boyolali) that include catchment
areas with high sedimentation rates. The district of Boyolali includes
the majority of the watershed area upstream of the proposed Kedung Ombo
dam.
2.23.       The Brantas Watershed covers an area of 1.18 million
hectares, and is drained by the Brantas River and seven tributaries. The
Brantas Watershed is composed of seven major catbement areas that fall
within the administrative jurisdiction of ten district governments. Four
districts, Malang, Blitar, Tulungagung and Trenggalek, will be included
in the project. Malang and Blitar contain critical catcbment areas
immediately upstream of the existing Karangkates dam and the Wonokerto
dam, which is under construction. Initially the project will focus on
these two catchments.
2. Papulation
2.24.       The total population of the two watersheds was estimated in
1980 to be 18 million (Table 3). Of this total, approximately 3.3
million people reside within the eight districts selected for inclusion
in the project (Table 4). Pbpulation density varies greatly, however,
within and among districts. In the Jratunseluna Watershed within
district variation is greatest in Boyolali. It ranges from 513
persons/km2 to 1920 persons/kza2 of agricultural land. In the Brantas
Watershed the range is from 558/km2 to 1635/km2 (see Table 5).
2.25.       The overall rate of population growth is very low in the
project districtsi the Crude Birth Rate was 20/1000 and the Crude Death
Rate was 6/1000 from 1978 to 1982. Again there is a great deal of
variation among districts in the Crude Birth Rate, wbich varies from 18
to 29/1000. In all eight districts out-migration is significantly higher
than in-migration. During 1982, the migration figures for the project
sub-districts in East Java were 5,706 in-migrants compared to 9,018
out-migrants. For the Central Java districts the same figures were
10,107 and 19,572 respectively. A significant part of this variation can
be attributed to differences in the agricultural potential among
districts and to the corresponding differences in standards of living.
2.26.       The average farm size is essentially the same for project
districts in East and Central Java, i.e., 0.67 ha and 0.66 ha
respectively (Table 5). Although these figures include holdings of both
irrigated and ralnfed land, they appear to be representative based on
estimates comonly expressed by those working in both regions.



- 12 -
11ap 2ia
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IR
,.1-1.uem (tlk"luUt.Sl coos
Amber .                                                         is                                                                   SM? J
LA I Ig
I  .... , fl. ,1                                                               ~ 
1 --  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



- 13 -
Map 2b
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tie vAM&-lf=1 
1.1t'bsimlm tWZata (5ALVZS
11.11469am Iusteuhle)  SJUT
-*I.sdqt.ae tu.ratis8  UAt
8 U T EA4L L~
) A   v , A       --               "-I't ' I %                                                     O ,  etlst{J
J ATA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITJ
\~~~~~~ *.d  *_/ >7                                         I&_b   . tsjj    t~*  jtt  '
IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
liAssiap.  EtiIet,14e    A.' ,5
-_ __. Ue fte-lt*El.I..   (-Iut tI a, utt  h...7 a.e* t
_ .. ^.|0e_42|aF 1|WW 41||w1etW bUb_,, . __ __ _ # _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to
[Cot |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.11



- 14 -
Table 3
Selected Demoqraphic and Land Use Data
|  JRRATURN  BIA    |    DRANTAS     |
I                                |   Watershed       |   Watershed      |
I~~~_  I _I
| Province                       |  Central Tava    I    East Java
# Districts                      |             9     |           10
I Population (million)                          5.9   1         12
I Total # ha                     |       790,000     1   1,180,000
| Population density             I                   I                  I
I (persons/ku2)                  1           747     1        1,017
*Land use (%)                    |                   I 
| Irrigated                      |            34.8   |          27.3   |
| Rainfed                        |            25.2   |           20.9   |
I Hame yards/gardens             1            13.8   I           16.0   I
F Forest                         |            22.8   |           23.4   1
I Plantation                     1             0.9   t            5.2
I Others                         |             2.5   |            7.2   |
I                  _I                                I _________________I
Source:
- Pola Texpadu Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai Jratunseluna oleh BAPPEDA TIkI Jawa
Tengah dan Proyek Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai Jratunseluna, April, 1982.
- Direktorat Jendral Kehutanan, Sub-BREKT Daerah Aliran Sungai Brantas.
General Information about Brantas Watershed and same Running Activities,
April 1983.
Table 4
Project Area Population Data
I   Total *I   Pop_2   I Pop/km2   I Pop/k_F _ Range_ 
I Location      I Population  I Total Land  | Agr Land  I (by kecamatan)  |
1__  1 (1982)    |   Area                    H lEigh   low|
| C. Java       | 1,656,000   |       551     |   840      I  1,920    513  |
I Semarang      I   647,000   1       728     1   877      I  1,429    632
I Bayolali      |   234,000   |       557     |   830      I  1,920    513  |
| Grobogan      |   480,000   |       463          8 876   I  1,517    703  1
| Blora         |   294,000   |       446     |   731      |  1,095    532  |
E 1. Java       1 1,638,000   1       443     |   753      I  1,635    413  1
R lalang        1   627,000   I       366     1   592      I  1,044    487
I Blitar        1   229,000   I       502     1   905      I    710   413  1
| Tulunigagung   |   310,000   I      491     1   748      1  1,464    429  |
I Trenggalek    1   472,000   |       512     I   991      I  1,635    558  |
Source: - Data Sosial Ekonomi Xabupaten, 1982 - Direktorat Jendral Bina Marga
* Total population of Selected Sub-districts within the Districts



- 15 -
Taila S
Average Farm Size in Eight Participating Districts
|              I Fam4 lies * I Families *  i         I Total **  I Ave. Land |
I Location    IWorking Ownl Working Own I  TOTAL  ICultivated I Per Family|
I              I  Land   ILand & Othersl  1 + 2  ILand  (ha)l  (ha)    I
I              I   (1)     I     (2)     I           I _              __
B . Java       I 487,133  1   65,188   | 552,321  | 372,716  |    0.67
I 4alang       I 209,113  1   24,913   I 234,026  1 177,716  I    0.76  I
| Blitar       | 114,795  |   18,333   1 133,128  |  84,817  |    0.64  |
I Talungagung   I  81,940  1   13,390        95,330  1  37,289  I    0.39
I Trenggalek    I  81,285  1    8,552   I  89,837  1  72,757  I    0.81
I C. Java      I 361,903  I   78,221   I 440,124  I 291,878  I    0.66
| Semarang     |  85,581  I   18,568   | 104,149  |  59,119  |    0.57  I
| Boyolali     |  95,979  |   19,637   1 115,616  1  55,570  I    0.48  |
I Grobogan     X  99,962  |   25,394   | 125,356  1  94,100  f    0.75
I flora        |  80,381  |   14,622   t  95,003        8 83,089  |    0.87  |
-              !           I             I           I          I           I
:  _   _    _    I  __    _ I.  l_   _    I ___     I.          I           l
- Penduduk Jawa Menurut Propinsi dan Xabupaten/Kotamadya 1980
- Zonpilasi Data Hasil Survey Sosial Ekonomi
3. The Agricultural Sector
2.27.       Agriculture provides the main livelihood for 681 of the
population in the Jratunseluna Watershed and 74% in the Brantas
Watershed. Despite intensive utilization of available lands in East and
Central Java, five project districts are net importers of food.
2.28.       Upland farming systems found throughout the Brantas and
Jratunseluna watersheds are diverse and well suited to intercroppilg and
plant adaptation. The present low level and poor quality of available
inputs will be improved by the project.
2.29.       Three general types of upland farming systems predominate
and reflect the varying agroclimatic conditions found in both watersheds.
2.30.       The first type is characterized by elevations over 700
meters and by precipitation rates greater than 3000 mm/year. The cooler
temperatures of this zone and relatively high precipitation rates enable
farmers to devote much of their activity to estate and horticulture crops
such as carrots, potatoes and cabbages. The livestock preferred is dairy
cows; grasses and leucaena are abundant for forage. Soils are more
stable and the quality of the bench terraces is guite good.



- 16 -
2.31.        The second type of upland farming system, found throughout
the two watersheds, has between 2,500 and 3,000 mm of rain/year.
distributed over eight to nine months. Two intercrop plantings per year
are general. In the first planting cycle, which begins with the onset of
the rainy season, cassava, upland rice and corn are frequently
intercropped but cassava is not harvested until after the second planting
cycle. The second planting cycle usually includes interplanted corn and
peanuts. Elevations between 250 and 700 meters above sea level are
common for this zone.
2.32.        The third general type of upland farming system receives
less than 2500 mm/year during seven months or less. These areas
generally have two planting cycles; the first begins with the rainy
season and is characterized by intercropping of cassava-corn-peanuts or
corn monoculture. The planting regime for the second season includes
intercropping of corn and soybeans, or corn and peanuts or monoculture
soybean. This farming system is the most prevalent on non-irrigated
lands in both watersheds.
2.33.        Several other cropping systems should be mentioned.
Nonoculture of cassava is found throughout the two watersheds,
particularly on poor soils and seriously eroded, steep slopes. It is
also characteristic of farming operations located near major urban areas
where farmers derive their main source of income from off-farm
employment. Tree crops are a small but important component of all three
general types of farming systems because they provide additional cash
income for the households as well as fuel wood and lumber for home
consumption.  Trees are cultivated throughout the farms but are most
frequently found in the home gardens.
2.34.        Home gardens account for approxriately 30% of total land
area (Table 3). The typical home garden is a mixture of trees for fruit,
firewood and building materials, with undezplantings of root crops,
tubers, medicinal plants and vegetables. These plants, which torm a
closed canopy similar to natural forests, protect soil from erosion.
2.35.        Accurate data on agricultural yields for upland areas are
difficult to obtain due to the intercropping systems. Available data do
not differentiate between yields from irrigated versus non-irrigated land
or monocropping versus intercropping and multiple cropping patterns.
However, Table 6 shows current yields of the dominant intercropping
pattern on a per-hectare basis based on available information and
interviews with farmers and other individuals knowledgeable about the
area. Potential yields can be judged by comparing these figures with the
results of experiments with similar cropping patterns in the Jogyakarta
region (also shown on Table 6).
2.36.        An experimental segment of the project will use livestock,
which currently can contribute as much as 25-30% of farm income, as an
incentive for fazmers to invest their resources in conservation efforts
such as silvipasture. For details see Annex 1.A.



- 17 -
5. Selection Criteria for Target Areas
a. Introduction and Selection Criteria
2.37.          District and sub-district selection for inclusion in the
project was based on the screening of potential project areas against a
predetermined set of criteria and on Judgment derived from several field
visits to both watersheds. The first criterion for site selection
specifies that project activity be limited to land with slopes above
15%. Two other criteria narrow this focus to land that is immediately
upstream of existing or planned major infrastructure (i.e., multi-purpose
dams, irrigation facilities, etc.) and/or lands where the erosion of soil
is approaching the point beyond which crop yields will be significantly
reduced.
Table 6
Estimated Current Yields in UACP Districts and
Experimental Results from Upland Trials in the
Jocyakarta Integrated Rural Development Project
I             - _         I         Yield/ha       I
I Location      ICrop                      I(g                  
|                  I Soybeans                 |           450
I UACP             I Corn                     I         1,000          l
| districts        I Cassava                  |         2,000
I                  I Peanuts                  I           500          I
I   ~I                                   l                        I
I                  I Corn                     I         1,900
JIRDP Site        | Upland Rice              I         4,300
|      A           | Cassava                  |         9,000          l
I                  I Peanuts                  I           700
I                  | Corn                     I         1,400
I JIRDP Site       I Upland Rice              I         2,600          |
|      B           | Cassava                 1          7,500          l
I                  I Peanuts                  I           600
I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 
2.38.          This last criterion gives greater specificity to the
present GOI definition of critical land, which includes future potential
sources of erosion as well as lands that already are experiencing rapid
soil erosion. The project principally will address treatment of those
agricultural lands where soil depth is at or approaching 50cm. Under
Indonesian condLtions, this is generally accepted as the minimum soil



- 18 -
depth beyond which crop yields will be significantly reduced. The OOI
definition of critical lands also includes those lands where soil erosion
is so advanced that sedentary agriculture 's no longer possible and the
lands have been abandoned. These lands, unless they are major
contributors to sedimentation of downstream infrastructure in the project
area, will not be a primary focus of the project, at least during the
initial phase of project operations.
2.39.           Thus, project activity vlll fall between these two
extremes and focus on a wcurative" rather than a "preventive" program
targeted on land where agriculture is still viable but which, if left
untreated, will result in near-term irroversible destruction of the
land's agricultural potential.
2.40.           Site selection of lands for inclusion under the project
(para 2.38) is, due to severe data limitations, tentative and subject to
more precise definition as the project proceeds. An initial priority of
the project will be the initiation of regular, iterative surveys and
measurements that will determine: (a) the net rate of soil erosion, (b)
the critical depth of soil and (c) the external costs of erosion due to
sedimentation and flooding. With this information project managers will
be able to identify priority areas for treatment under the project.
b. Project Area and Indicative Hectarage Covered bx ProJect
Activity
2.41.           In each province, project management and field
implementation will be centered at the district and rural extension
center (CECs) levels.  Tables 7.a for and b. sucmrize data on existing
upland rainfed hectarage and critical land hectarage for Central and East
Java respectively according to these respective management units. These
tables also present indicative figures for the total hectarage of land to
be treated during the life of the project.
2.42.        Each district Project Management Unit (P3(U) and
participating rural extension center (REC) will identify through field
surveys specific expansion areas for subsequent treatment.
Implementation of field activities in these expansion areas will radiate
from 10 hectare demonstration fazms strategically located within each
expansion area. Wide variation in the pace and quality of field
implementation is expected from REC to REC as well as among participating
districts. In the annual plans, PMls and PCOs will need to tailor the
pace of field implementation to demonstrated performance in the field.
2.43.        Compared to recent data from the Citanduy Project area, the
aggregate indicative targets for land treatment over the seven year life
of the tAC Project seem very conservative. The project MIS and annual
assessments will provide accurate data upon which to base future
adjustments.



- 19 -
Table 7a.
Central Java Project Area Data
Rainfed Uplands, Critical Lands and Indicative Expansion Hectarage
|  REC (Rural                          I Existing    Existing   |  Indicative
|  Province   |   District       |   Ectension          S Sub-District    I Rainfed   I Critical   | Expansion Under |
_____________                  ______________I Upland (ha)I  Land (ha)  IProject  (ha) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                           r              
I              1                II-- --
I Central i'iva         I        _                I _                       140,141        52,774   I     12,069    I
-    1 Semuarang   ,    L   -                                       27,428  I   14,950   1        4,085    1
I            I~~~~ Tengaran    1.I 11,839  [                           7,255  [2,399 
Tengaran            1    2,550  1    1,456
I              I         .                        I | Susukan           I    1,8491          548
|              |                |                 |ISuruh               |    1,2501          190
Bringin             |    1,757  I    1,757
Getasan             I    4,423  I    3,304
I                | Tuntang Xesongo I _                         9,292  |    3,865   1         1,2p3
Tuntang            I     1,185  I       725
Ambarawa            I    1,675  I       612
Jaubu               I    3,8921       1,801
I  I             I                 1 sumowono            1    2,540  1        727
I Ungaran        I                     I    6,297          3,830  1        1,203
Ungaran                  2,224  I    1,765   1                  I
Rlepu               I    2,492  1    1,235   1                  I
I  I             m 8awen               1    1,581  I        830   I                 I
BoyoUli                                            ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33,,037  I 6,389  2,100
I              I                T Karanggede I                          r   26,408 '3,710                   1,298
TKaranggede         1    2,482           317
I                I Wonosgoro           1    7,413  1    1,847
I               I                 I Juwangi             I    7,6231          244
Keamusu (or Kemorau) |    ,890  |    1,302
I  I  Isimo    I_____________ I    6,6291               2,679   I          802
I  I               I                 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~KlegoI    3,414            2,114                     I
| Andong             I    3,2151          565
Blora             _46,404                                                  10,789            1,984
I ,                i c Kunduran    I                        -35,652         7,261              992
I  I  I          |Ngawon               1   14,151  I    1,330   1                   |
I  lora             I    6,659  1    1,687
I  I  I          I Banjarejo           1    7,405  1    3,062                       I
Tunjungan           1    7.437  1    1,182   I
I   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ,   1 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .  _ __ _ ___1__ _   I  I  I



- 20 -
Table 7.a
I  I  I  REC (Rural    F              Existing  I Existing   I  Indicative    |
|  Province   I   District       |   Extensive         S Sub-District   I Rainfed   I Critical       E Expansion Under |
I____________________ _____,_.__ICenter)                                Upland (ha)I  Land (ha)  ! Proiect  (ha)  |
liJeon           I                     1   10,752  1    3,528   1            992    1
I              I                          I       T Jepon               1   10,752  1    31528
Grobogan        I                 I            _        |   33,272  |   20,646   |         3,180
--  -            Gubuq             ____________________I    11,331   1    4,765    [         795
I  I  I          I Karangrayung        I    6,036  1    1,476
I Kedungjati (7)      I    5,295  1    3,289   |
| Kradenan        I _                       13,263  |    9,957   I         1,488
I Kradenan           T    4,442  I    3,289   1
Pulokulon           I    4,167  I    3,012
I  Gabus             |    4,654  |    3,656   |
I Toroh          !  .                  I    8,678  I    5,924   1            897    1
I                 I                T Toroh (Temong)      T    4,116         2,924   |                 I
| Geyer               |    4,552  |    3,000   |                  |
I              I       1                           I         .                 .            1                        I
I2299AI6/29/84



- 21 -
Table 7.b
East Java Project Area Data
Rainfed Uplands, Critical Lands and Indicative Expansion Nfectarage
I               i                   i   REC (Rural    I                        I Existing  | Existing   |   Indicative
|   Province   I   District         |    Extensive    |    Subr-District       I Rainfed   I Critical         E Expansion Under I
I___________ !                     |__________ I  Center)  |_ ___               Upland (ha)I  Lndha)L1   Proiect  (ha)  |
I.             1|                   I                  1                       I             I     -    - 1  
| East Java    I _                                 ___ 1                           1|111,508  |    29.544   |        10,857    |
| Malang      _      _                 I ___                        63,103  I    10,644   1          3,514    |
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ DauIDampit _   1  1 24,560  1,770  1  904    _
Dampit                      7,617  I        655
| Ampelgading          I      9,849  I        136
1 I  I             I Sumbermanjing         I     7,796  I         979
| Pagak            I__       _      _34,904  |                 8,119   1          2,209
| Pagak                |      7,034         2,373   I                   I
| Donomulyo            |      4,257  |        625   |                   |
I  I  I            | Kalipare              I     8,989  |      1,791   |                    I
B Bantur               1      6,712  |        750   I                   I
I  I  I            | Gedangan              |     7,912  |      2,580   |
TITurenr           j                             3,639  1          5                401
I  I               I                   I Wajak                 I     3,639  I        755               -
| Blitar           I _                 I                            21,846  I      8,299   I         2,610
- I- I                     Bnangun                    13, 485-       5,467   1          1,305
I               I                   I                  I I3inangun             I      4,942  I        495 T                     I
I               I                   |                  I Wates                 I     3,142  I       1,125
Panggungrejo         I      5,401  1      3,847                       I
| Kademangan       I                       1     8,361 _       2,P32   |          1,305
I  I  I            I Kademangan            I     4,495  I      2,147
I                  |                   | Sutojayan            |      3,866  I        685   |
Tulungagung      I _                 I __13,676  I                               4,774   I          2,480    I
B olorejo          7                       |_   1 2,917        1,493   |            795    |
Pagerwojo            1        877  T        877   1
| Kauman               I        775             - _
|               I                   I                  | Karangrejo            |        3401            _
| Sendang              I        9251          616
I  I               I Buntaran          I                             7,609         3,124              1,480
I               I                   I                  I Kalidawir             |        869           869   I
I               t                   |                  | Rejotangan            |     4,650  |         165
I               I                   I                  I Pucanglaban           |     2,090  I       2,090   |                   I
I                                     _ __I_ __ _ __I_ __ _ __ _ __ I _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __1__ _ __ _1__ _   .   1__ __ _ _.__ __ _.I __ _ _.__ __ _ _I_ _



- 22 -
Table 7.b
I                I |  RBC (Rural    |                    | Existing    E Existing   I  Indicative    I
|  Province   |   District      1   Extensive    |   Sub-District       I Rainfed   I Critical   | Expansion Under |
I             I_______________ I    Center)                             I _  Upland (ha)l  Land (ha)  I Projeat  (ha)  I
I             I                 I Sukoanyar       I __ _ _3,150 _ ___1557   ! -                              197    I
ITanggunggunung    1    3,150  1157 1
I-            I Trenggalek      I                 I                 .  1   12,883  1    5,827   I          2,283
I     I                 T ~~~~~~~~Durenan                            4,861  j     1,462   J693 
I    I           I Durenan             I    1,167  I       116
I    I           IiPbgalan             I    1,250  I        39
| watulimo           I       810  I       810
Trenggalsk         I    1,199  J         72
I               IeBQndungan           I       4431        425
Don_ko __-  - -- _1,079                                   949   j          299,
Dongko                   1,079  1       949   1
YXarangan       I     -_-_ --_-_________  . 5,301  !    3,149   !        1,291
|                |                 | IKarangan           I    1,965  1       720   1
I  I  I          I Pule                1    2,104  1    2,104
| Tugu               I    1,2321          325S
KKampak             a                  1    1.642         - 267               0 O
I       I                 I~~~~~~~      ~~Kam~pak  I429J            178    
I                I                 I | Gandusari         I    1,213           8 89   |
02299Aa6/29/84



- 23 -
1I.  D. Detailed Project Description
1. Applied Research Activities
a. Introduction
2.44.           During the past decade, agricultural production programs
in general and agriculture research specifically have focused on rice
monoculture under irrigated conditions. This focus has yielded
impressive gains: total rice production doubled in the past decade.
However, the almost singular attention given to wet rice production
stunted advancement of non-rice crops and crops grown under nono-irrigated
conditions. Thus improved agricultural technologies that are available
for upland areas are only first approximations.
2.45.        Research is needed to improve agricultural and conservation
technology for upland areas and to tailor them to the reqxirements of
specific watersheds. The res3arch task is to:
-  improve the productivity of existing cropping patterns;
- Increase farm Income;
-  stabilize farm income:
-  design soil conservation practices appropriate for the different
conditions within the target areas.
2.46.          The project will provide the means to carry research
recomendations to the field and provide feedback to the researchi. s.
The research component will draw on the experiences of the Citanduy, Solo
and Jogyakarta projects. This strategy (Fig. 1) includes three research
phases and two extension phases after the target areas have been selected.
b. Purpose and End of Project Status
2.47.          The Farming System Research coaponent will develop
technologies to increase agricultural production and promote soil and
vater conservation in the upland rainfed areas of Java in ways that are
socially and economically acceptable.
2.48.          By the end of the project, technology will be in place
for Increasing the production and productivity of upland faming systems
!(I- rluding food crops, vegetables, tree crops, forage and livestock
production). Methods of soil and water conservation under various agro
climatic conditions will have been developed including criteria for the
use of different conservation practices using crops, forage and trees as
part of these practices.
c. Relationship with the National Resear=h Program and
International Aqriculture Research Centers
2.49.           The Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
(AARD) has the major responsibility for develcping technology for the
rainfed upland areas. AAXD is finalizing an ad-ministrative system so
that its various research components will support one another and quickly
provide answers to common problems.



- 24 -
Fiqure 1
Parallel biological and socio-econmxic activities.
required for the five distinct research and implementation phases
of a Farming Systems program
Socio-economic Research          Phases              Biological & Soil Res.
l                      l  I Site selection and |      Data collection       |
I Agro-economic profile |  ;  description       |  | - Soil classification I
I Site reconnaissance   I  I Partition area     1   I - Climate             l
_______________I   I  (initial)                 I  I - Soil & water losses
| Economic data        I  I Econ. & biological      I I                     l
I  collection          I  I potential studies |   I Component technology   |
| Technology Transfer INI  I Qaantify problems  |   | Technology Transfer IN |
| Farm recording       l  l  lyrs 1-5)               M | Monitor soil losses    I
rIII_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
| Economic analyses of   | |   Design and test   | I Redesign and test 
I  systems             I  I  farming systems  I   I  system-                I
Fam recording         I         yrs 2-5)          I Com22nent studies
! Evaluation           I  I Test Farms          l   I                       |
I  - technologies      I  | Expansion Program        I j Identification o-  |
- institutions                    yrs 3-5)      | |     production problems  I
V
I _                        I t Implementation and |  |                      l
JAgricultural statistics|   I  Technology       |   |  Extension feedback   l
_ ___  ________I               Transfer OUT                                 I
2.50.          The AARD Farming Systems Research Group for this project
will be responsible for providing the appropriate technology for rainfed
upland agriculture to all implementing units of the Departments of
Agriculture and Forestry. The explicit objective is to ensure the
development of effective interdisciplinary research in an environment
that closely resembles the farms systems where the technologies will be
used.
2.51.          The Farming Systems Research camponent will be supported
by a collaborative research arrangement between AARD and a consortium of
international agriculture research centers. IRRI will be the lead agency
and will coordinate the input of other interested international centers.
One senior scientist will backstop the Farming System Research full-time
for six years. Commodity and discipline oriented scientists will provide
additional support during Years One through rive, working with AARD



- 25 -
counterparts for about two months each year for each commodity/
discipline. Financial support for thi-s effort will be available through
an AID/IRRI Collaborative Agreement funded by the project.
d. Research Scope
2.52.           Agricultural and erosion production problems identified
in upper river watersheds are interrelated and require an integrated
approach, including comprehensive socio-economic analysis. These
activitles will follow the phasing and interaction as presented in Fig. 1
and include components focused on:
- cropping systems,
- livestock,
- tree crops and silvipasture,
- socio-economic studies,
- soil and water conservation and management.
(1) Crop and Livestock Systems
2.53.               Research is needed on alternate land uses including
different cropping systems, animal systems and a number of combinations
of both. The cropping systems component will develop cropping patterns
adapted for varying agroclimatic conditions and crop maragement
practices. Varietal selection of crops will be made including upland
rice, corn, legumes, cassava, vegetables and forage grasses and legumes.
Lastly, this component will estabishing integrated pest management using
surveys and evaluation of existing management systems.
2.54.               The experimental animal systems component will focus
on the improvement of feeds using crop residues and year-round forage and
feed supplements; the improvement of animal health, parasite control and
vaccination; and reduction of young stock mortality and increase in
fertil ty.
(2) Tree Crops and Silvipasture
2.55.               Rainfed upland areas are often far from villages in
steep, inaccessible areas and are planted in crops that require low
inputs. Under these conditions, the productivity of the land is very low
and efforts to control soil erosion are minimal. These steep slope
uplands, as well as those with shallow soils, should be put under
silvipasture.
2.56.               Research will focus on: 1) the economic viability and
carrying capacity of grass/legumes forage production for livestock
adaptability, 2) management and potential production of cash crop trees,
and 3) the process by which a farmer can, within a five year period,
gradually change his faming practices from annual crops to mainly
pernanent crops.



- 26 -
(3) Soil and Water oanservation and Management
2.57.               Initial research will be designed to evaluate
different conservation practices and to develop methodologies for
quantifying soil and water losses and costs for the different practices.
Simultaneously, efforts will be made to monitor and evaluate soil
conservation practices implemented in the Citanduy, Solo and Jogyakarta
projects as well as in other areas of activity of Sub-BRLKT. In the
second phase of the research program, on site research will be the key
activity and will be closely linked with the U&C Project through the
provincial and district Guidance Teams and the FRPP.
2.58.               The goals of the research effort will be to
demonstrate and evaluate different methods of conserving soil and water,
develop criteria for the use of different soil and water conservation
practices, and evaluate different crop, forage and tree species for
effectiveness in controlling soil and water losses.
(4) Socio-economic Evaluation
2.59.               Socio-economic analysis will identify the specific
needs of the target areas and will provide basic social and econo52.c data
and trends. It will include the development of an agro-economic profile,
compilction and analysis of production data, farm record keeping and
broad bcsed studies or surveys necessary to develop a better
understnding of the social and economic characteristics of the target
ar- s. It must estimate the rate of adoption of new/recommended
practices, which is a central factor in planning che diffusion of upland
technology.
e. Research Organization and Staff
2.60.           These aspects of the project are covered in detail in
Project Organization and Management, Section III.C.
II.  D. Detailed Project Description
2. Sustainable Upland Farming Systems (SUPS) Pilot Project
a. PlxPose
2.61.           The purpose of the Sustainable Upland Farxming Systems
pilot project (SUPS) is to demonstrate and extend to farmers' fields a
replicable, cost effective combination of farming and conservation
practices that will be economically stable and will keep erosion within
acceptable 14im4t. More specifically, the SUNS pilot project will
achieve broad technology diffusion by gaining farmer participation and by
inpro-ring institutional capacities, mLanagement and delivery systems
(e.g., grass nurseries. seed production and distribution; and exte-sion
methods and systems).



- 27 -
b. End of Project Status
2.62.           By the end of the project three basic programs vill have
been established.
(1) Planting Material Development and Distribution
-   Grass/legume nurseries. A network of ten irrigated
nurseries will have been establl shed or upgraded to distribute
enough grasses and legumes to meet demand in the eight
participating districts.
-   Seed production and distribution. A program will be
established to produce sufficient certified seed to meet demand for
the primary upland food crops.
-   Tree (cash crop) distribution.  A program will be in
place that draws on private sector nurseries zo meet demand for
cash crop trees Ce. g., mango, clove and petai).
(2) Livestock (Small Ruminant) Development and
Distribution Program
-   Several village based small ruminant pilot projects
will be implemented and evaluated by the end of Year 3 (IFY 87/88),
which may be replicated throughout all project expansion areas.
(3) Integrated Extension Service
-  Annual plans for expansion areas within each of 22 REC
Work Regions (WXBPP) wlll be prepared and executed.
- Three or four demonstration farms per REC will
demonstrate improved agriculture and soil and water conservation
practices to upland farm communities.
-   Community farm groups, organized in each designated
expansion area, will be prepared to adopt and use ecologically
sound faming practices.
-   Village councils, religious institutions and other
NGOs will support and advance the widescale adoption of sustainable
farming system practices.
-   Systematic diffusion of upland agriculture and
conservation technology and associated 'in kind' subsidies
(planting material, fertilizers, etc.) will be carried-to
approximately 22,900 hectares over the life of the project.



- 28 -
c. SUFS Strategy
2.63.           The Sustainable Upland Farming Systems pilot project
(SUPS) is an experimental, innovative undertaking, designed to conceive
and test the effectiveness of alternate extension organizations, field
delivery systems and support services. These alternate systems must be
replicable over time in tho context of larger national programs,
particularly the GOI' s National Regreening Program and the National
Agriculture Extension Program. If the SUFS is to fulfill its mandate as
an experimental "field laboratory' for ongoing national programs, it must
be given flexibility and independence from the rules and regulations
presently governing various upland agriculture and conservation efforts
of the government. During project design the GOI, USAID and IBRD have
agreed on this central concept. The GOI will issue appropriate
instructions, acceptable to the Bank and AID, to identify the Upland
Agriculture and Conservation Project generally, and the SUFS component
specifically, as an experimental effort. Within this context, the GOI
will issue the necessary instructions granting project authorities the
management and budgetary flexibility required to execute an experimental
program.
2.64.           The SUFS component incorporates several important
modifications that distinguish it from existing upland agriculture and
conservation efforts. These strategic design considerations are
--mmarized below.
2.65.           First, the SUFS camponent will be planned and implemented
in a decentralized and integrated manner. At present the national
Regreening Program is planned by respective Sub-BELKT and implemented by
district governments. As noted in the Administrative Analysis Annex l.D,
this separation of responsibility for planning and implementation
inevitably leads to disputes and contributes to poor performance. Under
the SUFS, responsibility for planning and implementation will be with the
respective district government Project Managers who supervise the four
responsible technical services, i.e., the Soil Conservation Service, the
Agricultural Service, the Livestock Service and the Estate Crops
Service. The Inpres Dati I budget will be dispersed by the respective
Project Managers to each of the participating services according to their
jointly developed annual plan.
2.66.           Field planning and implementation will be unified and
integrated at the rural extension center (BEC) level. The annual plan
for each participating district, as outlined above, will be a composite
of the annual demonstration and expansion program drawn up by the staff
of each participating REC with the assistance of subject matter
specialists (PPSs) for food crop agronomy, livestock, estate crops and
soil conservation. All extension personnel assigned to the project will
report directly to the respective supervisors of each REC.
2.67.           Extension personnel assigned to each REC will be deployed
to serve identified expansion areas (see site selection process described



- 29 -
below). Each expansion area will have one ten hectare demonstration farm
to which will be assigned one extension supervisor (PPM) and five
extension agents (PPL/PLP). This staff will be responsible for extending
appropriate farming and conservation practices throughout the expansion
area served by their respective demonstration farms.
2.68.          A second important feature Is the careful selection of
expansion areas. The potential areas requiring treatment are vast, and
the availability of trained manpower and financial resources ib limited.
Therefore, it is imperative that expansion areas be selected carefully to
insure the maximum impact and most efficient allocation of resources. To
this end, technical and agro-economic surveys will be carried out
annually in each participating district to identify potential expansion
areas one full year prior to establishing demonstration farms and
commencing extension operations. The site selection process will follow
a three steps process. First, potential expansion areas will be
identified according to the technical criteria outlined in para 2.37.
Following this, an agro-econom.i survey will be carried out to determine
potential agro-economic constraints that may influence the type of
treatment to be introduced. Finally, meetings between project officials
and farmers in the potential expansion areas will be held to guage the
degree of farmers' interest in joining the program. If interest is
shown, they will be requested to organize themselves into a group and
formally request inclusion in the project. REC and district level
project staff, based on an analysis of the composite technical,
agro-economic and participation data, will then select the areas to be
included in the following fiscal year's program.
2.69.          A third strategic consideration is the development of
high quality planting material. A universal constraint limiting all
upland agriculture programs at present is the scarcity of good planting
material. Although improved productivity through use of good plant stock
has been demonstrated, inadequate attention has been given to the
development of nursery capacity and seed production and processing
facilities. Consequently, the first priority of the SUPS project will be
to establish the capacity to produce the required planting material. New
expansion areas and supporting demonstration farms will not be
established until the supply of planting material is assured.
2.70.          A fourth concept relates to the subsidy policy to be
applied and tested by the project. The SUFS will: (1) discontinue
payments for terrace construction, reflecting farmers' willingness to
adopt recommended practices at a lower level of subsidization than
presently provided; (2) introduce a uniform subsidy for both
demonstration faDns and surrounding expansion areas and (3) authorize
Project Managers in each district to vary the level, content and duration
of subsidies, based on local conditions, the technology involved and
farmer requirements. The project has been budgeted on the assumption
that the average period of subsidy will be two years.



- 30 -
2.71.           A fifth concept to be tested in the project area,
although not directly financed by the project, is a program to replace
direct subsidies after two years with a general household, non-subsidized
line of credit that will be made available by BRI or other appropriate
lending institutions, through a system of "village posts" established in
all project expansion areas. Financing and technical assistance for this
credit program will be made available under the AID financed Financial
Institutions Development Project. The village post concept is presented
in Working Paper 3.a. (see Annex 9).
2.72.          A final concept is linkages.  District officials and
technical agencies must link component project activities to the SLPS
pilot project extension effort. The establishment of field level working
linkages between the SUFS and the AARD research effort will be
particularly important. Linking the SUPS and the conservation access
road component is essential, as are linkages with responsible marketing
agents (e.g. cooperatives as well as the private sector), BRI credit
officers, village officials and the extension service.
2.73.           These five points should be viewed as an initial
strategic framework for the project rather than a predetermined and
urchangeable development policy. As project managers at all levels gain
on-the-ground experience, this strategy is expected to be modified and
inproved.
d. Coiponent Elements
(1) Planting Material Development and Distribution
2.74.               The development of adequate s.applies of
grasses/legumes, food crop seed stocks and cash tree crop seedlings is
central to achieving both the conservation and the agricultural
-objectives of the project.
(a) Grass/Legume Nurseries
2.75.               A network of ten nurseries (at least one per
district) will be established under government auspices to manage the
continuous production and distribution of large volumes of grasses/
legumes for use in stabilizing terraces or in the introduction of
silvipasture on steep slopes.
2.76.               The nurseries will be established on at least 3
hectares of fertile irrigated land purchased and developed by the
goverment. Irrigation is essential since grasses must be propogated
durlng the dry season for distribution to upland farmers at the on-set of
the rainy season. Each nursery will be located on a main road as close
to the general target area in each district as possible.
2.77.               A permanent work force of laborers for each 3 hectare
nursery will be hired to maintain and prepare plant seedlings for



- 31 -
deonstration farms and expansion areas. A PPL will be assigned to each
nursery on a full-time basis and will be responsible for nursery
management. The pulling of grass seedlings must be synchronized with the
f-rers' planting time. Planting materials must be handled properly to
insure their survival. The PPS for soil conservation in each
participating district will be responsible for coordinating nursoey
operations with the demonstration farm and expansion program activities.
2.78.              Basic facilities and equipment for the nursery will
include a storage shed, equipment such as sprayers, tools, water pumps
and space for an office for the PPL manager. A four-wheel drive pickup
truck will be provided for grass delivery to demonstration farms and
expansion sites.
2.79.              One nursery per district will be established during
the initial project year in districts Boyolali and Seinarang in Central
Java and Malang and Blitar in East Java. The balance of the nurseries
will be established in the remaining four districts when they join the
project at a later date. Table 8 presents an indicative schedule for the
establishment of nurseries under the project.
Table 8
NurseEy Developmnt Schedule
IFY     | 84/85  185/861  87/88  1 88/89 189/90190/91191/921          |
Project Yearr   o     I 1|   2    |   3   1 4 15             6   Total   I
~~~~~~~I        I       I  1             I         I     I   . I.        I
Ilnitial     1         I     I        I        I     I     I     I
I SUPS Distr. 1|   ha. I      J#  ha.  J*  ha. I    I    I                   I
Semiarang    il (3 ha) I               11 (3 ha)l    I    I    I
' orolali     |1 (3 ha) I    II                  I    I    I    I            I
Malag        |1 (3 ha) I               11 (3 ha)l    I    I    I           I
Blitar       1l (3 ha) I               I       I    I    I    I            |
I Sub-total  14 (12 ha)l                12 (6 haW      I          16 (18 ha)l
I~ ~       1               I        I         1-l -I   --1- 
|Follow-on    I               I         I        I
I SUFS Distr. |
|Blora        I         I    1l (3 ha)I          I    I    I    I 
IGrobogan     I         I    |1 t3 ha)I          I    I    I    I
ITulungagung  I         I    1l (3 ha)I          I    I    I    I
|Trengwalek   I         I    11 (3 ha)_I         I    I    I    I           I
I Sub-total                   1 !1 4 (12 hW) 1      1        1    14 (12 ha)I
I   TOTAL    14 (12 ha)I    14 (12 ha)J2 (6 ha)l       I    1    110(30 ha)l
I             I         I     I         I        I     I     I               1



- 32 -
Table 9
Indicative 3 ha Nursery Budget
(Rp.000)
I Capital Cost:                                                           I
| Irrigated land purchase (3 ha Q ap.4,000,000)             Rp. 12,000
Grass seedlings (40,000 pulls/ha @ Rp.3/pull x 3 ha)       Rp.    360   1
T Tools                                                     Rp.    200   |
I Pickup truck (four wheel drive)                           Rp. 12,000   I
I Water Pump                                                Rp.  1,000   |
P Pesticide Sprayer                                         Rp.    170   |
| Shed                                                      Ep.    400
II
I Office furniture                                          Rp.   400   |
I                                                                         I
| TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS:                                      Rp. 26,530   I
I                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I Annual Operating Cost (3 ha nursery)                                    I
I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I Grass/legumes seedlings                                   Rp.   100   I
IFertilizers (3 applications/year/ha of 100 kg Urea,                    |
50 kg TSP and 50 kg XC1 C    Rp.90/kg x 3 ha)      Rp.    162   |
1 Pesticides                                                Rp.     25 |
I Tools                                                     Rp.    200   |
Fuel and maintenance for truck and water pump              Rp.  4,500   |
Laborers' salaries (2 full-time men/ha 0 Rp.1,000/day and
6 days/week for a total of 312 days/year x 3 ha)  Pp.  1,872   I
, Driver's salary (full-time Q Rp.35,000/ onth)            Rp.   420   |
| Miscellaneous                                             Rp.    500   I
ANNUAL OPERATING COSTS:                                    Rp. 7,779   1
(b) Upland Pood CroS Seeds
2.80.               In 1982, the GOI and IBRD initiated the Seeds II
Project (Loan 2066 IND) to supply sufficient processed seeds from the
National Seed Cooperation (NSC), P.T. Pertani and participating
cooperatives to meet 409 (25,000 tons) of the 1988 BIMAS/INMAS market for
wetland rice seed and 20% for upland crops (11,400 tons) and dryland rice
(750 tons) in 13 provinces. In every participating provinces, the
project supports inproved and expanded breeder seed storage, seed
production supervision, upgrading of rice and upland crop seed farms to
produce foundation seed, an expanded program of private contract growers
to produce extension seed stock, 18 medium sized seed processing centers
for the National Seed Corporation and P.T. Pertani and six mall seed
processing centers for cooperatives.



- 33 -
2.81.               During ZBRD/GOI negotiations, considerable discussion
focused on the appropriate roles of the National Seed Cozporation,
cooperatives and the private sector. The National Seed Corporation (NSC)
has a documented history of inefficient operation of mechanized seed farm
production. Therefore the GOI and IBRD agreed that a long-term objective
of the government's seed program should be to enhance the role of the
private sector in seed processing. Nevertheless, both sides concluded
that no private firm (a) would be likely soon to take the risk inherent
in pioneering seed processing particularly for upland crops or (b) had
the size and expertize to organize contract growers to multiply stock
seed into extension seed, process the seed and supply the large insular
markets of Indonesia. As a result, the project has focused on developing
NSC's seed processing capability as wvll as establishing, on a pilot
basis, small, cooperative (XUD) seed processing centers, based in six
sub-districts. These centers would then contract with private producers
for extension seed.
2.82.               This strategy, with its emphasis on organizing
private contract growers as opposed to state run seed farms, represents a
first important step toward defining a greater role for the private
sector in the seed industry. The GOI also agreed to gradually increase
seed prices so that by 1988 N9C revenue will cover all costs, including a
10% return on investment. The UAC Project seed production and
distribution activities have been formulated in the context of this
larger GOI program and policy environment.
-.83.               To meet the 14-4ted demand for extension quality seed
stock in the early years of the project (see Table 10), project officials
will work closely with provincial authorities and representatives of the
NSC to purchase seed stock directly from provincial seed farms (PSF) in
both East and Central Java. Bowever, given the present limited
production of foundation, stock and extension seed for upland crops at
the provincial seed farms, delays in implementation of the GOI/IBRD Seeds
II Project and the uncertainty regarding the role of the cooperatives and
the private sector in the seed industry, the project will finance
technical assistance and commission two studies specific to the general
project area. The first study will focus on seed marketing and
distribution and the second on the potential role of private and
cooperative sectors in seed production and processing (see Working Paper
4, Seed Study Termas of Reference). These studies will complement
national surveys being undertaken in the context of the Seeds 1I
Project. The studies will be initiated during IFY 84/85 (Project Year 0)
as a key priority of the project authorities. The results of these
studies will guide the investment strategy for developing the seed
industry in both provinces.
2.84.               Should it be determined that the project cannot
purchase sufficient extension grade seed stock to meet project
requirements from existing sources, special consideration will be made
during IFY 84/8S to finance a pilot seed production and processing
project in conjuction with the Ministzy of Cooperatives.



- 34 -
Tablo 10
SUPS Zctension Seed Regqirements
(Tons)
I Proj0ct Yr   0   1  1   1  2   1  3   1  4   1  5   1  6   1
Type    1  84/85 r 85/86 1 86/87 T 87/88 I 88/89 1 89/90 T 90/91   T $otal
Maize      I  4.41  39.81  63.01 104.0 I 122.01 122.0 I             I 455.21
Soybeans   I  9.9 I 89.6 I 142.0 1 235.0 1 275.0 1 275.0 1          11,026.5 5
Peanut      1 15.4 1 139.0 I 221.0 I 365.0 I 428.0 1 428.0 1        11,596.4 4
TITotal    1 29.7 1 268.4 I 426.0 I 7C4.0 1 825.0 1 825.0 1         13,078.1 1
1,           1       1       1       1       1       1       1    _    .1  _ _ _
(c) Tree Crop Seedlings
2.85.               SUPS will provide free tree seedlings to fazuers who
are willing to put their land under permanent vegetation or follow the
project recomndations for soil and water conservation.  Seedlings will
be produced by $eisting, privately owned nurseries in the project area
under contract to the project. Most of the cash crop trees adapted to
the area are usually available in local private nureries. When improved
tree seeds aze available through AJUW, nursey contractors will be
suliLed with the improved seed stock and scific management
recommendations from appropriate AM  staff.
2.86.               1he Estate Crop PPS, in cooperation with the PINs at
the RPCs and PPNs at the demonstration farms, will be responsible for
agnagement of this component of the StJFS pilot project.
(2) Demonstration Fazm and Expansion Program
(a) Donstration rarms
2.87.               Demonstration fazms will be the prlncipal tool for
technlogy demonstration and dissmination under the SUIPS pilot project.
Twro types of upland technology will be demonstrated initially. On lands
with slopes below 50% and soil depth of at least 50 cm, bench terraces
with grasss planted on terrace lips and risers wiLl be established to
stabilize the soil. When soil depth is not adequate or slopes are over
S0%, grass strips, lamtoro CLeucaena leuBcoeala), gliricidia
(Gliricidia *opium or G. maculata) or other appropriate legumes and
treesshrubs will be close planted on the contours to form - barrier to
soll erosion if the land is to be used for food crop production.



- 35 -
Marginal lands or lands with low productivity and high erosion risk may
be planted to silvipasture with cash crop trees and forage grass/legumes
for livestock feed. On steep and marginal lands, efforts will be made to
help farmers change from annual food crop production to permanent or
mostly permanent vegetative cover.
2.88.               Demonstration farms will show farmers the benefits
and costs of practises such as:
- the most appropriate way to maintain a stable
farming system for a given site, taking into consideration the soil type,
depth, texture, topography, land use and climatic conditions.
- the most appropriate conservation measures (i.e.
vegetative stabilization of terrace risers, contour strips or
silvipasture) to insure maximum protection against soil erosion.
- the advantage of using improved seed, optimum plant
densities, opti:um use zf inputs and proper soil management.
- the care of livestock, where applicable; the use of
forage produced by the vegetative stabilization program; the use of farm
by products and the optimum livestock carrying capacity for specific
farming systems.
- the role and income potential of tree crops such as
clove, petai, coffee and fruit as part of the upland farming system,
particularly on slop's greater than 50% or on sites where the soils are
too shallow to allo-w construction of bench terraces. Proven techniques
such as pruning, fertilizing and pest control will be demonstrated to
farmers who already own productive trees.
(b) Expansion Program
2.89.               The expansion rate of the Citanduy Watershed Project
averaged 85 ha/DF/yr. This realistic standard has been assumed for the
SUPS project. Given the aggregate target of approximately 23,000
hectares of critical land for treatment, 72 demonstration farms will be
neeaed by the end of the project. The aggregate hectarage of land
projected for treatment under the project may be conservative. First, a
constant rate of expansion has been used in estimating the rate of
technology diffusion. This rate Is probably appropriate for the initial
start-up years of the project but can be expected to accelerate as
project managers and extension agents gain experience and the surrounding
communities become aware of the project. Second, data from Citanduy
indicates a faster rate of expansion should be expected for the UAC
Project.  The Citanduy expansion program subsidies are Rp. 200,000/ha.
The Rp. 300,000/ha proposed lor win kind" subsidies to expansion areas
under the SUFS should encourage farmers to participate more readily since
their risks are greatly reduced.



- 36 -
2.90.               Table 11 presents an indicative annual schedule for
the establishment of these demonstration farms. Table 12 presents an
illustrative schedule, for planning and budgetary purposes, of the 22,900
ha to be treated by expansion of the SUFS project. These 22,900 ha
represents 28 of the 82,318 ha of identified critical land in the eight
participating districts.
(3) Upland Agriculture and Conservation Subsidies
2.91.               Farmer adoption of the improved farming systems
technology advanced by this project requires incremental inputs of labor,
fertilizer, pesticides, planting material and livestock. Financing to
purchase these inputs can be drawn from three potential sources: the
farm family's "own" account, subsidies or credit made available through
either public or private channels.
(a) 'Own Account Financing
2.92.               It is unlikely, at least in the initial years of the
project, that economically marginal families will be prepared to
voluntarily invest their limited savings in what is to them new and
untested technology. However, as the non-credit technical guidance
programs (IrMas and INSUS) have demonstrated, farm families will ure
their discretionary income to purchase productivity and income increasing
inputs when they are confident that the technology is sound and the
prospects of higher yields outweigh the risks. Other sources of
financing must be developed to initiate technology diffusion and to carzy
the farm family until it has accumulated sufficient cash surplus to
finance inputs.  The initial coordinated program of subsidies will be
replaced by non-subsidized commercial credit to meet recurrent cost
requirements. One source of credit will be the USAID supported Financial
Institutions Development Project, which serves the UAC Project areas.
(b) Subsidies
2.92.               The GOI will provide direct subsidies for the initial
two years of participation in the program. As a condition for joining
the progran, participating farmers will be required to undertake, at
their own expense and labor, substantial earth moving to establish bench
terraces or othler mechanical conservation measures recommended by the
project. In addition, participating farmers will introduce a range of
vegetative conservation measures such as planting appropriate grasses,
legumes, tree crops and silvipasture on steep slopes. Since these
mechanical and vegetative conservation measures also reduce
sedimentation, flooding and dam.ge to estuaries, the upland farmer
actually is subsidizing the lowland population that captures off-site
benefits. This is reasonable justification for the subsidy package.



37 -
Table 11
Demonstration Farm Development Schedule
I Indonesian FY   184/85185/86186/87187/88188/89189/90190/911TOtaiI I  ha   I
| Project Year    I O    1  | 2  | 3  | 4  | 5      6 1  DF  Treated|
IEAT*V            I     T     I     I    I     I     I     I     I        I
|EAST JAVk                        
|Malang           I1   3  |51                                 8  |  3,514!1
I  REC DampIt              I |1| 1  |         |     ||2|    904 |
I  REC Pagak      I    12 131                        I    1 51   2,209!
I  REC Turen      I    I       1                              I I    I    111  4011
I3litar           |     |2  | 4  |    |    |6                       2,6101
I  REC Binangun            I | J  | 2                         3  1  3  J  1,305
|  REC Kadekmagan|       11121           I    I            1 31   1,305!
ITulungagung      |    1    1       15     5|    I    1 10|  2,480|
|  REC Bolorejo                     |2  | 3  1    |           5       795 |
I  REC Euntaran                       3 I    |  13111 |       4     1,488|
I  REC Sukoanyar        I         I       I          I 111            197!
I Trenq'galek     I     I    I    | 5  | 4  |    |    I 9  |  2,283|
I  REC Durenan           II2lF3                                       6931
i  REC Dongko     |    I    I    |1|    I                  | 1        299!
I  REC Xarangan                       3 I    I    1312  I    151   1,2911
I  REC Kapak      I     I     I     I    I     I     1     I    I         I
I --ub-total      I      15    9 I 10       91       I    I 33  I 10,887 I
IcNL3v            I     I    I    I    I       I     I    I    I 
I Semarang        I    1 4  I 4  1 2  1 3  I    1 _          13  I  4,085
I REC Tengaran  | F|2            1 2        3                 7  1  7  2,399
REC Tuntang K.        1    1    1                        31   1,203
I REC Ungaran        I   111111  1                  1      1 31   1,203
3Oyoa.alI                  1 1  31       12!         1    161    2,100
I  REC Karanggede I      12                                  4      1,298 1
I  RECSimo        I    1    121  i                   1    12 1        802
I Grobogan        I     !i            8    4  131121    3,1.80
REC Gubug        I    I    I    12                  1       3        795
REC Xradenan           |    |      13 13                     6 161   1,488
I  REC Toroh      |    |    I    |3  |               1 |31            897
|Blora                  I    I      14  |4  |              181    1,984
|  REC Kunduran   |    I    I    | 2  | 2  |    1    | 4  |    992
R REC Jepon       I    1|           |2  |2  |4                        992
| Sub Total       I     I 5     7  1 14  113  |    I    139  1 12,069
1     T I1~~~~~~~I~~~I1 1-f1~~~~*                            I
I  TOTAL DP             |10  116  |24  122  I    1    |72  | 22,956|
1.           1_               I     I    I     1     I     I     I        I
*4200k



- 38 -
Table 12
Pro2ected Expansion Hectarage Under the SUPS
Pilot Project
IFY        11984/851 85/86 1 86/87 1 87/88 1 88/89 189/90 190/91 |            |
Project Year      0 O      1   1  2   1    3         1   4    15 |  6 ¶TOTAL
Di            |        1100  |                   1        I |     |          1001
1E12                     |(1O DF)|  850 I          I        I      |           950|
E 13          1        1        1        1 1020           I       I      I  1970|
E 14          1        1        I        I       I  1020 |        |         2990|
E 15          1        1        I       I                 11020|         14010
E 16          |             .  I         I       I        I       110201   5030
I           I        I       I        I        I        I              II
D.2           I        I        I   160          1        I       1      I   160|
i  23                  I        I(16 DF)I  1360 |         |       1      1  15201
E 24          I        I        I        I       I  1632 |        |         3152|
E 25       .  |        |        |       |                 116321         1  47841
E 26          |        |        |        |       I        1       j1632    64161
D3            I        j        i        1240         I    j             1 240|
1   34        1        1        1       1(24 DF)I  2040 1        1       I  2280I
1335          1        I        I        I       I        1 24481           47281
E 36          1        1        I                     I       1    24481  64161
I  ~~    I           I       I                 I            . 1*       I       I
D4            I        I        1       1        j220  |         |220|
1 E45                                              1 I  I  I  |(22 DF)J 1870 |  |  2090 |
E 46          1        I        I       I        I        I      122441  43341
*1_.            I        I      _ I       I        I       I           I_
* Total Ha.    1         1  100  I 1010 1  2620 1 4912 1 6970 1 7344 "   22956 I
D 1 - Demonstration farm (DP) established in Project Year 1.
E 12 - Expansion area in Year 2 from demonstration farm established during
year 1.
#4200A



- 39 -
2.93.               Second, as a result of the introduction of mechanical
conservation measures, farmers will be required to give up valuable crop
land to allow for the construction of public waterways and terraces
(typically 30% of total land area).  Participating farmers may also
experience substantial initial production declines after construction of
the recom-mnded mechanical conservation measures due to top soil
disturbance. Thus, some form of subsidy is needed to off-set both the
permanent real loss (i.e., land) as well as short-term loss in
productivity.
2.94.               Third, the mechanical and vegetative conservation
measures and improved farming system technology is beyond the ability of
low income, risk adverse farmers to finance.
2.95.               For these reasons the project wlll finance for
twenty-four months a composite subsidy package for each participating
farm family. This will permit farmers to accummulate sufficient capital
to operate both from their own resources and from those available on
commercial terms through the banking system and private sector.
Subsidies will be set at the minimum level required to obtain adoption.
Conseqcently, the subsidy package will be under constant review with an
eye to reducing the level of subsidy while maintaining acceptable rates
of technology diffusion.
(4) Proposed Project Subsidies
2.96.               Experience from the Jogyakarta and Citanduy Projects,
although still limited, suggests that the subsidy for construction of
bench terraces can be reduced without jeopardizing the rate of technology
diffusion. Based on field observation by a number of independent
observers, two adjustments in the subsidy package are recomuended:
discontinuance of direct payment for terrace construction at
demonstration farns and the Introduction of a uniform subsidy for both
demonstration farms and the surrounding expansion areas. The recommended
two year subsidy package is shown on Table 13.
2.97.               Adherence to certain criteria will be required.
Farmers in a contiguous watershed area must organize themselves into a
f A-er group and formally request government support. If accepted, the
group must, in the case of the bench terrace model, collectively
undertake construction of the proposed mechanical conservation measures
under the guidance of a qualified technician. The farmer group will be
provided the necessary construction material and grasses to build the
required terraces and waterways. After completion of the physical
construction, the participating farmers will recelve grasses to plant on
the terrace risers to stabilize the soil. Following this initial
activity, farmers will be provided with inputs (seed, fertilizer and
pesticide) for the initial year's production. During the second year
farmers will receive the second subsidy. The specific inputs to be
financed will be jointly determined by the participating farmer groups
and the REC extension teamsr



- 40 -
2.9 .               This two year multiple input subsidy is considered
the minimum necessary to insure adoption of conservation and productivity
increasing practices. The specific inputs shown on Table 13 are
indicative only; they will vary widely from area to area and project
officials will have the authority to "fine tunes the subsidy package to
insure that it is appropriate to farmerst needs. While it is anticipated
that the subsidy program can be terminated after two years, this decision
can only be based on the results of implementation. If project
authorities and AID determine that the subsidy should be extended for a
longer period financing provided under the project can be used for this
purpose.
2.99.               Based on the projected expansion rate presented in
Table 12 and the per hectare cost presented in Table 13, the aggregate
SUPS subsidy budget by project year is presented in Table 14.
(S) SUPS Technical and Extension Staff Requirements
2.100               Table 15 presents the existing complement of
technicalA/anagerial and extension staff of the four technical services
responsible for the implementation of the SUPS pilot project. This
staff, currently totalling 1,295 personnel, is responsible for the
technical management of all ongoing programs sponsored by these line
agencies throughout the 176 sub-districts of the eight target districts.
2.101               An estimated 474 managerial, technical and extension
personnel from these four participating agencies will be required if the
project target for land treatment is to be achieved. Table 16 presents
the personnel requirements according to occupational specialization,
agency affiliation and year when the respective personnel are expected to
join the SUPS pilot project.
2.102               During project design the GOI stated its intention to
reassign or recruit new personnel to meet the full-time SUFS pilot
project staff requirements, as outlined above and ii Table 16.
2.103               Table 17 presents the allocation of the total SUE'S
staff according to the requirements of each participating district.
II.   D. Detailed Project Description
3. Access to Credit
2.104        The availability of credit is central to the large scale,
sustained diffusion of productivity and conservation increasing
technology. It is unreasonable and inappropriate to expect the
government to pexpetually subsidize the uplands. Therefore, a
prerequisite for sustained diffusion of farming system technology is of a
financially viable credit program to meet the recurrent needs of upland
farm communities. (Working Paper 3a, Kupedes/Village Post Credit
Proposal is an analysis of present institutionalized credit lending in
the project areas of East and Central Java and gives the general rational
and design of the village post concept.)



- 41 -
Table 13
Subsidy Budget for SUFS Demonstration Farms & Expansion Areas
(Rupiah s)
I                                         I Bench Terrace   Silvipasture I
I ______________________I Slope 50% 1 Slope 50%
I                                         |    Rp/ha      |    Rp/ha
| Year I                                  I               I
|   Grasses/legumes                       1      30,000   |   90,000
I   Waterway construction                 I      70,000
I   Seedlings (trees)                     1               1   50,000
I                                         I               I              1
1st cr  input                             I               I
I      Seeds                              I      59,000
|      Fertilizers (50 kg urea, 100 kg
|       TSP & 50 kg KCL)                  |      18,000
Pesticide                         I       8,000
(85,000)
|   2nd crop input                        I               I              I
|      Seeds                              I      39,000
|      Fertilizers (50 kg urea, 100 kg
TSP & 50 kg KCL)                 1      18,000
Pesticides                        I       8,000   I               I
I                                         I    (65,000)  I               I
| Year II
|   Variable subsidy for Bench Terrace   |       50,000   |  160,000
I    model and small ruminants (10/ha)
I    for silvipasture model
Total 2 year subsidy         |    300,000   |  300,000
2.105        The project will not have a discrete credit component but
will work with the lead agency--i.e., the Ministry of Home Affairs, and
with various financiaL institutions to divise effective credit programs
to support the Sustained Uplands Farming Systems component. The
Financial Institutions Development Project (FID) supported by AID,
already has targetted technical assistance to Bank Rredit Kecamatan of
the Bank Pembangunan Daerah, a provincial bank in Central Java, thus
covering one watershed area.



- 42 -
Table 14
SUrS Demonstration ?arm and Ecpansion Program Subsidy Budget
(Rps millions)
IFYr        1  84/851 85/86 1 86/87 1 87/88 r 88/89 1 89/901 90/91 1
IProject Yr.            1  72           3 _    4  1  5   16            Total
IPlanting    I       I       I      1               I
m material   1101   99    257 14811  6831  7201                     12250
I.        I  Ifi ~                                      F   I        I.
Ilst Yr DF/  I       I       I      1       I
I Ecp. area  |      |  12  1 123  1 320  1 599  I 850  1 896  1 2250
|   Subsidy   I      |       I      I       I       I       I       i
I1                                       I 
|2nd Yr DF/  |
I mp. area  I        I           81   81 1210 13931   5581  1249
ISubsidy    |
I            Ii             *1 iI           1,      i       *1      I 
ITOTAL        I 10  I 111  I 388  1 882  i1492  11963  11454  I 6299  I
AsumWtions: plant material Rp.98,000/ha budgeted 1 year prior to implement.
Construction waterways + fertilizer + pesticides Rp.122,000/ha
budgeted the same year as inplemented. Rp.80,000/ha budgeted 1
year after implementation for inputs to support appropriate
individual farming sysa.lems, e.g., tzee crops, livestock.
2.106       In the early phase of implmentation, FrD will explore the
potential for assisting Bank Rakyat Indonesia's (BRI) planned expansion
of the Kupedes program into the project areas using the "village post"
concept. FID assistance to BR3 probably will be limited to technical
assistance and sae essential equipAnent. TA will support the development
of proper phasing, procedures and accounting practices as the Kupedes
program expands to the uplands. TA will be channeled through the
Xinistry of bme Affairs, wbich is also the prime implementing agency of
FID, and will pay attention to the unique problems of the upland areas as
one of its key elements.



- 43 -
Table 15
EZcisting Agricultural and Soil Conservation Staff.
in SUNPS Districts
Food   1/I  Live- 2/ 1Estate  3/|  Soil  4/I|
Crop     I  stock   I  Crops    I ConservationI Total I
Service   I Service  I Service   I Servicev  I          L
§           ~       ~      ~     ~~I  1  1                        1 -   '
IEa st Java
M Malang          |    105      I    32    1    48       I   48       1  233
1Blitar           I      63     1    16    1    20       1   35       I  1341
Talungagun;    I        59     I     19    I    13      I   19           110!
I Trenggalek      |      60     |    11    |    12       |   22       |  105|
Subtotal      1    287  --        78    I -____ 93 _     124      I  582 ,
Central Java    I
ISeiarang      I      84     I    31    I    26       1   32        I  173
IBoyolali         |      75     1    36    |       7     |   39       I  1571
|Grobogan         |    140      |    23    |       7     |   34       |  204|
IBlora            1    126      |    24            a 8   |   21       |  179|
I  Subtotal       1    425      I   114    1    48       1  126       1  7131
I                 I                                                           0
I   btal          I    712      I   192    I   141       1  250       11,2951
I/  Includes PPS, PIK and PPL.  Data from Directorate of Extension, DG Food
Crops.
2/ Includes PPS, P3( and PH.
3/ Includes midlevel supervisor field extension worker from Nor (PNP) and
field extension worker (PLP) daeplots, PW regreening and field extension
worker for checkdams (PLDP).
4/ Administrative and technical staff.
*   Balal and Sub-Dalai Konservasi Tanah (EX)
II.  D. Detailed Project Description
4-  Human Resources Develooment
a. Purpose and nd of Project Status
(1) PuS2ose
2.107           The Human Resources Development component will orient
Government of Indonesia personnel in the Ministry of Hoe Affairs, the
M4inistry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Forestzy toward dealing with
the serious production and conservation problems in the uplands. The
project will:



- 44 -
Table 16
SuFS Pilot Project Staff Requirements
I IFY                    184/85185/686/87187/88188/89189/90190/911
IProject Year            TO       1  121  3  1 4  1 5  1 6  jTbtalI
|Initial SUPS District  |      I     I     I      1     I     I     I     I
PFS Food Crops Agro-   |  4|         I      I     I     I           |  4 1
Inomy (NOJA)                                                              I I  I  I  I  I    I  I  I
IPPS Livestock (MOA)    |  41        I     I      I     I           1  4 1
IPPS Est. Crops (MOA)        4 4 |          I |         I     I     1  4 1
F PPS Soil Conserv. CMOF)i  4 |      I     I      |     I     |     |  4 1
- REC Mgt./Ett. Sta.ffl       I     |      I     I     I    I      I     I
|PE  Exten. Mgr. (MO)       101   16|  21   5 |               I     1331
PPL/PLP Extension      I 501  80    101  251          1     I     11651
I Agents(NDR)            I     I     I     I      I     I M A
|PPL Nursery Mgt. (MOA) |  4 |          |         I     I    I      |  4|
I                        1   i-X --~I 1  
|Sub-total Initial SUFS    80    96| 12| 30 |               |   |2181
1  _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __  I  o             -   X  ;        X-
|Follow-on SUPS Distr.  I      |     I      I     I     I    I      I     I
|PPS PFod Crops Agro-   |      |     I  4 |             1     I     1  41
Incmy (RDA)              I     I     I     I      I     I     I
|PPS Livestock (MOA)    |      |     |  4         1 |         I     I  41
PPS Estate Crops (MOA) I      I     1  4 |        |         I |       41
iPPS Soil Conserv. (MOA)|      I     I  4 1       1     1     |     I  4 1
I -REC Mgt./Met. Staff I          I        I      I     I    I      I     I
| PPH/PLP Ext. Mgr. (MOA)I     I     | 221  17 1        I           I 39 1
PPL/PLP Extension      I     I      11101  851        I     I     1195
I Agents (MOA)
|PPL Nursery Mgt. (iOA) I      |     1  41   2          I |         I  61
I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I     II          I     I     I     I     I
ISub-total Follow-on    I      I     1152 11041         I     I     I256
T_L_UESSt _f__ e              I 9   1      1                        474
l TOTALSUFS Sta£ffReq.  | 801| 961|1641|134 1           |1       1  14741|
I             I     I     I      I     I     I     I     I     Il  



4 45 "
Table 17
SUrS Pilot Project Staff Requireuent
per DLetriat and RSC
Indonesian FY             84/85   I   85/86                        87/88   1  88/89   1  89/90   r  90/91   |
Project Year          |     _0 _ _1 _                          1      3            4     I                           TOTAL
I                       PPP1PL PPHP P PPP                        PPP PPP PHP P8PS  iH p PP pp J   PPPPPH PPLI
1-~~~~~~~~~~ I                                         I             II
|BAST JAVA                           I            I                    I                   I           I                    I
| DLat M41ang             4   3  16*1        2S |_|___|                                   I 25                          54
|  REC -Dapt         .        1   5              1   5                                                             I |
R8C Pagak             j      2  101        3  15 |
|   RC Turen                                I |  1   5 1
| Dist. Biltar            4   3  111        4  20 .                                                                     41
-REC Dinangun             1   5         2  10        .
I   REC Kademanan    |        151           2  10 |                           I            I           I            I       I
IDist.Tulungagungl _ ---                          14   5  261          5  21 5                                          GS |  | I  _ 651
I RlC Balerejo       1                          F       2 101        1 s r           I                            I I
;   RXC Buntaran       |             I             I      3 1S          3 15
R8C Sukoanyar                                                         I  i I  |  1  S     I           I            I
Dist. Trengqalek   |                 L            1 4   5  2601        4  20               I _          I           |   59|
R  I     Durnan        II151                                           210
I  RIC Dongko          I             I                           1    S |
|   REC Karangan                      I                      1         2  10
R RC Kampak             _            I              _                         I            I _         I              j
Sub-total      _     052945j8l052                                  946                                             2191
| CUNTRAL JAVA         I             I            I             I             I            I                        I       I
Dist. Se8arang   |    4   4  21*1           4 20    |   2  10 |        3  16*_ 1                    1 1                 84 1
RIRCTengaran           1         1a         a101                           1I6
REC Tuntang           |      1   5         1   S I       15                                                                I
RiC Ungaran        I      1   5S        1   5 t       1   5 |
Dlt. Boyolali         | 4   1   601        3 1S I              1      2  101                                           41  |
REC Karanggede                   5 1 I     1   51                     2  10 1
I  REC Sio                           I      2  101              I             I            I           I            I       I
| DLmt. Grobogan       I                          1__  I ___ I 4   8  41I1  4  20 1      _ I __        I |              77 1
RBC Gubug          I            I             1       2  10      T 1   5 - I
I   RC Kradenan        I             I            1       3  15        3  15 |             |           I                    I
I  RC Toroh            |             I            I       3  15 |                          I           I            I       I
DILt. Blora                        I_          1 4   4  21 1         4  201 |           |           |                531
REC Kunduran       I                                  2  10        2  10 1
REC Jepon                  _      _   .._ _._ _          2  10        2  la 1
|   Sub-total             8   5  27         7  35    8  14  72        13  66 |                                    .-S 255 1
I- ._          _       I                        .                             I            I           I             
|      TOTAL           |16  10  5          16  80   16  24 124        22 112               I           I            14741
* Including PPL Nursery
11462Atjoys6/26/84
i'.



- 46 -
- inform farmers and cocmmunity leaders about the
government's programs and encourage them to participate in solving their
own problemsi
- provide specific technical skills training to government
personnel and farmers;
- provide decision makers at all levels with opportunities
to learn how others are dealing with similar problems.
(2) End of Project Status
2.108           The project will provide skills training in agricultural
techniques, planning, management, motivation and communication to more
than 600 government employees and 2000 farmers. Xey individuals who
influence national policy will be provided opportunities to interact with
experts and foreign pes.s who deal with problems similar to those found
in Indonesian watersheds. By Year 6, sixteen outstanding personnel
associated with the project will have been trained abroad to the I.S9
level, forty PPLs will have received diplomas in upland farming extension
and soil conservation and twenty leading project personnel will have been
trained to the .S.. level at Indonesian universities, focusing on upland
management and farming systems.
b. Components
(1) Farmer and Community Leader Training and Motivation
2a109           In the final analysis, farmers and their communities will
determine the success of the project. Training will be focused on key
farmers who will act as models and give accurate information to other
farmners and provide feedback for the project. The key farmer, not the
extension agent, should be the main interface between the project and the
target group.
2.110           Training will include worksbops to facilitate
understanding of the project and its procedures, technical training at
demonstration farms and RZCs and in-country tours to see improved
practices.
(2) Extension Agent Training
2.111               The extension agent is the first technical level of
government interaction. All extension agents (PPL and PLP) will work out
of the rural extension centers and be backstopped by the Agricultural
Services at the district level and by Sub-BNLXT. They will interact with
farmers by providing information on programs and farming techniques and
by helping them participate in government programs; and the extension
agents will provide reports and data to the management information system.



- 47 -
2.112               Training will place strong emphasis on knowledge of
rainfed crops and animals.  A ratio of 701 field training to 30%
classroom activity is acceptable. Training that provides practical,
hands-on experience w$il be devised, such as each trainee assembling his
own training manual and making his own communication aids. Every effort
will be made to have the extension agent maintain his own farm plot.
2.113               One hundred and ninety-five PPLs/PLPs will be phased
into the project by March 1987; an additional 145 will be phased in by
March 1989. It will be necessary for the GOl to recruit and train more
than 400 extension agents during the project to allow for long-terz
training, attrition and surplus cadre for expansion during Phase  I.
(3) Extension Supervisors (PPM) Trsining
2.114               The extension supervisor, located at the rural
extension center, functions as planner, manager, technician, and
trainer. He is responsible for the personnel, program and facilities in
the REC work area. Usually he is a person with broad knowledge of
agriculture who has come up from the ranks and is an experienced, proven
performer.
2.115               The supervisor's performance will be critical to
project success and expansion. There will be 72 extension supervisors in
place when the project is completed and more will be needed for 'urther
expansion. The government must train 115 to 130 extension supervisors
vithin this project to provide for personnel attrition and for initial
expansion during Phase II.
(4) Subject Matter Specialists (PPS) Training
2.116               The PPS in located at the district level.  Specialist
are university trained backstops for the generalists working at the RECs
and in the field. As the professional link between the researcher and
the extentionist, they assist farmers directly and train PPLs, PLPs and
key fazmers.
2.117               The PPS's training will be focused on upgrading
technical skills and keeping abreast of new developments. Great stress
will be placed on how each area of specialization can contribute to the
farming systems approach. Additionally, he will receive training as a
trainer.
(5) Planning, Management, Administrative Staff Training
2.118               The Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project will
place a heavy emphasis on management. The process of developing
management skills can be greatly accelerated with practical training,
provision of simple 'toole , a-nd instruction in techniques. Workshops
will deal vith the actual needs of the project in a learning-by-doing
method.



- 48 -
2.119               There are 46 full-time projoct positions in the
planning, management and administrative classification. Provincial and
local goverrment officials and technical services personnel must be
included in this training segment, even though not assigned to the
projoct.
c. Methodology
2.120           The project's training effort vill use existing
facilities, experienced staff and trainers and on-going programs (e.g.,
NAEP' s training and visitatlon procedure), bolstering these elements as
required.
2.121           Training for the project staff will begin immediately in
the on-going programs at the BLPPs, at the Soil and Water Conservation
Centers, and at the National Agriculture Training Center (Ciawi). This
training will run concurrent with planning and assessment activities
during the initial project year.
2.122           During Year 0 (IFY 84/85), an assessment will be made of
skills needed for the project. A personnel management system nov being
developed in the Citanduy 1X Project, will be established to maintain
up-to-date information on individuals' experience and training.
2.123           Project funds for training will be provided through
Inpres Dati I and managed by the training component manager housed within
the national Executive Secretariat. Additional funds for training will
be included in the Farming Systems Research component of the project.
2.124           In some instances, the GOI will need to double encumber
(assign two people to one position) to provide for long-term training.
d. laxposes and Methodoloqies for Training
2.125           Below are a list of the general aims of the training
program and the means to achieve them. Specific training measures are
found in working Paper 5, Training Concepts.
2.126           The training program should broaden farmers' and project
staff's understanding of upland agriculture and conservation problems and
the methods being used to deal with them. A program of workshops,
newsletters, study tours and demonstration visits will be concentrated in
project expansion areas.
2.127           Key farmers and the project staff will be given technical
training in agriculturm and soil conservation, especially related to
rainfed agriculture and conservation, ranging from thoory to practical
field exercises.
2.128           Key farmers and project staff will be taught how to
transfer knowledge to others in an annual intensive (3-4 days) course.



- 49 -
2.129           Training for mid-level and upper management staff will
focus on planning, implementation and evaluation.
2.130           Project staff will be taught how to manage: a) their own
time, b) other personnel, c) resources and d) budgets and financial
flows. Specialized training tailored to the needs of different levels of
project management will be carried out. Workshops, guided by experts,
will define and institutionalize position responsibilities, management
organization and procedures, and protocols for implementation and
communication.
2.131           District level PMU managers and upper echelon management,
i.e., provincial and national, will be given policy guidance for the
project and training to improve their analytical and planning capability
in anticipation of an expanded national program.  Special training
courses, study tours, and workshops in Indonesia and abroad will be
arranged.
e. Orcanization and Staffing
2.132           The Project Training Officer, assisted by the Training
Advisor and others, will be responsible for planning, managing,
coordinating and evaluating all the Hman. Resources Development component
activities. The Project Training Officer will be one of the permanent
staff of the Exeecutive Secretariat (ExSec) located in Jakarta.
2.133           He wlll work closely with BPLPP and its units, the
Directorate General for Land Rehabilitation and Conservation and the
Technical Services of the Linistry of Agriculture, which have onr-going
programs and Zacilities suitable for the project.  The Project Training
Officer will decide how and by whom the training can best be carried out.
2.134           Pr±or to initiating training, the annual training plan
must be approved in writing by USAID. The expectation is that Year 0
(start-up) primarily will provide refresher training undez pxograms
already in place. Subsequent years will have additional project specific
training. Annual plans will be adjusted as required. It will be the
Eroject Training Officer's responsibility to see that required
documentation is processed.
2.1.35          A long-texm Project Training Consultant, assigned to the
project Executive Secretariat, will work in tandem with the ExSec
Training Coordinator. He will assist coordination of the activities
among the many government institutions and non-government organizations,
advise all le-els of Government and provide regular evaluations regarding
the quality and effectiveness of the training. Short-term consultants
will also be provided.
2.136           The government will be required to provide a Project
Training Coordinator and additional full- and part-time staff for
training and for developmer'-. of manuals, material and publications.
Experienced administrators at BPLPP will be needed to set up specialized
training courses, and une Agriculture Information Centers will be called



- so -
upon to support the project. Also, the government will be requested to
provide high level personnel to assist in evaluating the training. component.
2.137           The need for additional personnel to double enc-umber
positions targeted for both domestic and overseas long-term training will
be agreed to during project negotiations.
II.   D. Detailed Project Description
5. Conservation Access Roads
a. Puxpose and End of Project Status
2.138           The project will construct all-weather roads to provide
access to demonstration farms and expansion areas and for general
communication. At the end of the project approximately 475 kilometers of
macadam roads will have been constructed, repaired, or upgraded in eight
districts.
b. Design Standards and Conservation Measures
2.139           Considerable care will be exercised to assure that design
standards will use construction teciniqies and structures that minimize
environmental damage. The roads will have waterbound macadam surfaces, a
traditional type of construction found on Java. The standards, however,
will be higher than those normally used in Padat Xaxya programs. The
construction method to be followed will employ the labor intensive
construction techniques developed under the Padat Karya program.
2.140           The design and construction of the roads will take into
consideration the future requirements for maintenance by people in the area
and by local government. Budgets normally are low for routine maintenance
and only provide for saterials, since the local population supplies the
bulk of the manpower under the Padat Karya program. Taking into account
the high level of design and construction, the emphasis on good drainage to
control runr-off and establishment of firm road shoulders, the annual cost
for maintenance materials should not exceed Rp. 25,000 per kilometer.
2.141           The project will provide technical assistance to assure
high engineering standards, to help establish maintenance programs and to
certify that construction meets the standards.
c. Cost Analysis
2.142           Based on the environmental design considerations, the road
geometric for a waterbound maciam road and assumption of 4 culverts per
kilometer and one 6 meter bridge every 6 km, the unit cost for one
kilometer will be approximately Rp.9,200,000/km. (See Table 18.) This
figure includes cost for constructioa, administration and cost for
purcbasing vehicles and off4ce equipment. Because of additional design
considerations, this estimate is above the average cost for regular Padat
Xarya construction under the USAID Rural Roads Project.



- 51 -
Table 18
Average Unit Cost for One Xilometer Road Construction
(Waterbound Macadam) in East Java and Central Java Province
(pp. 000)
T Type I Yizd |  Unit    Cost of  I Cst of lunit Cost/Kal
I   Province     I  of  I  of  I  Cost/  I Culverts/1 Bridge/I Road Cons- I
Road I Road  X m Road  I Xm Road  I Km RoadI struction  I
East Java       I       I       I         I          I        I
I      I       I       |Rp-      I RPe      I Rp.   I Rp.         |
| 1. Malang      | Pi   I MCD   | 6,000   I 1,600   |   360 |   7,960
| 2. Blitar      1 PJ   I MCD   | 5,700   I 1,350   |   360|   7,4410
1 3. Tulungagu'g  | PJ   I MCD M    4,850   I 1,600   |   360 |   6,810
| 4. Treuggalek   I PJ   I MCD   | 4,750   I 1,600   I 1,962 |   8,312
I                I       I       I          I          I        I            I
ICentral Java    I       I       I          I          I        I            I
I                I         I    I          I          1        I            I
I 5. Sem-rang    | Pi   I MCD   j 7,200       3.,735   I 1,565 |  10,500
| 6. Boyolali    | PJ   I MCD   | 6,650   1 1,700   1 1,600         9,950
I 7. Grobogan    | PJ   I MCD   | 6,000   | 4,000   1 1,950 |  11,950
S 8. Blora       | PJ   IICD   | 4,000   | 4,400   1 1,950 |  10,350
3  1  . |      | 5,644   1 2,248   I 1,263 I   9,200
I            I -     .            I          I         I                I
Note:
1. PJ - Penunjangan C a standard for construction higher than the regular
Padat Kaxya standard. Labor intensive construction methods are
suitable.)
2. MCD - Macadam
3. Cost of Culverts is calculated for 4 culverts per kilometer road
4. Cost of Bridges is calculated for one meter bridge per kilometer road and
it is further assu-ed that evezy six kilometers of road needs an average
of one 6 meter bridge.
2.143          The road component will be financed by the World Bank aad
the GOI. The total construction cost of Phase I is estimated at Rp.4.4
bilUionz (See Annex 5, Table 8 for construction schedule and detailed
budget.)
d. Executing Agencies and Procedures
2.144          The road construction is designed to support the
activities of the project and therefore will be determined by the
location of demonstration farms and expansion areas. The project will



- 52 -
help local governments improve the general road net if roads outside the
expansion area are inadequate and hamper full utilization of expansion
area roads.
2.145           Public Works (PU) and the Manpower Ministry at the
district level will be assigned by the district chief to work together to
lay out a right of way and to complete the design. PU will be assigned
the responsibility for these activities.
2.146           Prior to beginning construction that will be reimbursed
from the IBRD loan, USAID approval in writing of the design and the cost
estimates will be required.
II.   D. Detailed Project Description
6. Project Innovation Fund (PIF)
a. Introduction
2.147           The potential for innovation and experimentation with
upland agriculture and conservation technology transcends formal
government institutions such as AARD and the SUPS pilot project and must
include local institutions, universities and upland communities
themselves. To the extent that these local institutions and communities
can be encouraged and supported in their complementary but independent
efforts to improve conservation and productivity in the uplands, the
prospects of attaining the project's and GOI's goal will be enhanced. To
this end, a Project Innovation Fund (PIF) will be established to finance
initiatives by the appropriate local institutions, communities, research
organizations and universities.                   a
b. Project Purpose and End of Project Status
2.148           The purpose of the Project Innovation Fund will be to
provide project management with a flexible source of funding to finance:
-  proposals from local comunities, universities,
foundations or other recognized institutes that directly or indirectly
address issues of upland productivity and resource conservation;
-   small-scale pilot projects designed to field test or
perfect production, marketing or processing interventions;
-  feasibility studies of private sector investments to
broaden the options for farmers, e.g., post harvest reprocessing
facilities, storage facilities, gasifiers for power generation, abattoirs
and feed mills;
-  private sector companies, NGOs, or universities to
develop radio programs focused on upland agriculture, pamphlets and
manuals;



- 53 -
-   non-government organizations that will implement
similar conservation programs.
2.149           By the end of the project's fourth year there will be a
system for soliciting, reviewing and financing proposals submitted by
local institutions and communIties. At the end of Phase I, each
participating district will have an active portfolio of projects financed
through the PIF, and initial results will have been evaluated for broader
application.
c. Financing
2.150           $500,000 in grant funds will be committed to PIF during
Phase I. To insure flexibility these funds will be managed independently
of the GOI DIP/DUP process. Given the substantial need for these types
of activities the proposed funding level may appear low, but this is a
deliberate decision to create competition among the many expected
proposals.- All the funds will not be committed early-on, as good ideas
are expected to flourish in the project's later years.
d. Fund Management
2.151           The PIF will be directly under the management of the
Project Coordinator in each province. The Project Manager will submit
proposals from the district, with recommendations, to the Project
Coordination Office. The Project Coordinator and the provincial Guidance
Team will decide which proposals merit financing. Both solicated and
unsolicated proposals will be given equal consideration, and proposals
may be submitted at any time to either the provincial or district project
authorities.
2.152           All projects will be judged by the criteria that will be
developed during the initial year of project ope-ations and =ust be
approved by AID. Once projects are approved by the provincial
authorities, they will be forwarded to USAID for revie-w/approval prior to
disbursement of funds.
III. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGECENT
A. Introduction and Rationale
3.01.    Successful implementation of the project requires the local
government to plan and manage development initiatives focused on upland
areas. Accordingly, the project has been designed to strengthen certain
planning and technical offices of the provincial and district goverments
and to channel all operational funds for demonstration and technology
diffusion activities and access roads through a unified management and
financial structure under the supervision of provincial and district
governments*



- 54 -
B. Management Concepts
3.02.    The experience of the Citanduy and Jogyakarta projects has led
to the formulation of management concepts that should create an effective
interagency approach to watershed/upland farning systems development.
1. Decentralized Management
3.03.        Given the widely varying agro climatic, social and
institutional environments characterLstic of the Indonesian archipelago,
a decentralized management structure that places responsibility and
authority at lower levels of government is the only practical way of
planning and managing development and conservation interventions.
Because multiple interventions are required to assure adoption of
productive but ecologically stable, upland agriculture technology, it is
simply not feasible to manage upland agricultural programs in a
centralized manner.
2. Unified Management
3.04.        If the responsibility for these programs is appropriately
placed at provincial and lower levels of governlent, these officials must
be vested with sufficient authority, including effective budgetary
control, to ensure the unified management of the various human, technical
and financial resources. Presently, these resources are under the
responsibility of several technical line agencies. All must be mobilized
and allocated in a balanced and coordinated manner if the project's
achievements are to be sustained. The magnitude of the problem requires
that GOI policy makers strengthen the management capacity and authority
of local governments so they can effectively guide and coordinate the
speciallzed inputs and skills of the technical line ministries of
government.
3. Unified Budgetary System
3.05.        The ability to develop and allocate the budget determines
the extent to which local goverments can unify the delivery of services
by respective line ministries.
3.06.        The budgetary system in the Jogyakarta Integrated Rural
Development Project will serve as the model for the Upland Agriculture
and Conservation Project. In the Jogyakarta Project annual plans and
budgets are prepared by the Jogyakarta Planning Board (BAPPEDA) in
conjunction with the participating line ministries. These budgets are
reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and then
disbursements are made through the Inpres Dati I channel to the
provincial government, which, in turn, sub-allocates the budgets to each
participating line agency. Not only is one budgetaxy channel utilized,
but authority for the development and allocation of the budget is
effectively decentralized and vested with local. government. Without the
adoption of this budgetary concept, the correlary concepts of
decentralized and unified management can be only partially and, at best,
ineffectively carried out.



- 55 -
4. Community Participation and Management
3.07.        The preceding three concepts have focused on how government
institutions organize and decentralize their operations to enable them to
effectively reach and service the target beneficiaries. A complementary
and directly related question concerns how upland communities need to
organize themselves to address productivity and conservation problems and
to access resources/markets available through the goverment and the
market place. The issue is how to broadly engage upland communities in
making the decisions about upland development and conservation.
3.08.        The failure of the initial FAO assisted Solo Watershed
Project to gain farmer acceptance of proposed innovations is generaLly
attributed to the absence of a strategy and process for mobilizing
community understanding of the problem and active participation in
addressing the problem. On the other hand, the Panawangan Pilot
Watershed Project and its recent successor, the Cigaru Project, in the
Citanduy Basin, succeeded largely due to dynamic local leadership that
mobilized community support for these projects.
3.09.        The project organization and management structure outlined
below in Section C is an attempt to apply these four management
concepts. What is proposed is neither a radical reorganization of
government services nor a new organizational structure. Rather, the
approach represents a more effective way of using existing government
structures, procedures and programs.
C. Project Organization and Management
3.10.    The planning and management systems used by this project are in
many respects new and untested innovations. The GOI, IBRD and USAID
fully expect that, as experience is acquired, modifications in both
organizational structure and process will be required to improve the
effeciency of project implementation. Accordingly, periodic reviews will
be held to assess performance and recommend changes that subsequently
will be incorporated into the project.
3.11.   The four management concepts discussed above will be put into
effect as follows:
1. Decentralization
3.12.        The project vill be planned and managed at the district
level. Provincial government authorities will be responsible for the
design/application of the relevant planning, management and budgetary
information systems needed by participating districts to formulate and
execute the project. The provincial governments of East and Central Java
will also be responsible for evaluation of district government
performance and the review and approval of district annual and long-term
plans and budgets. Once all grant and loan agreements are in place and
basic national policies established, the provincial governments of East



- 56 -
and Central Java will appoint a representative to be the responsible
authority on the GO1 side for the disbursement of IBRD and AID funds for
all project activities except agricultural research and training. These
latter activities will be managed by appropriate national level
authorities as described below.
2. Unified Management
3.13.        The Governors of Central and East Java will each appoint a
full-time Project Coordinator and staff who will form the nucleus of a
Project Coordination Office (see Chart 1). This office will operate
under the overall policy guidance of an interagency provincial Gaidince
Team that will be authorized by the governor and composed of appropriate
provincial government authorities and the heads of the technical line
agencies directly involved in the project, including the head of the
Regional Center for Land Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation. Each
participating technical agency will appoint a staff member to be
responsible for that agency's technical input into the project.
3.14.        The governor will also appoint, on the advise of the
district chief in each participating district, a full-time Project
Manager and supporting staff and authorize the creation of a Project
management Unit (PMU) for each district.  The Project Manager in each
district will report directly to the district chief, but will be
supported by technical agencies responsible for field implementation of
agriculture extension programs. Each of the line agencies with a major
management role will appoint at least one professional member of their
respective staff to work full-time on the project in close coordination
with the Project Manager and his staff. *these representatives from the
line agencies will be responsible for management of their agencies'
contribution to the overall field program.
3.15.        Technology diffusion and agriculture support activities
(e.g., nurseries) will be managed as a single program through the GOI's
network of rural extension centers (tEC) in the project area. The
supervisor of each rural extension center will be responsible for the
management of all project activities and extension personnel drawn from
the four relevant technical services [i.e., the Livestock, Estate Crops
and Soil Conservation Services]. Additional management and extension
staff will be added to the existing staff resources of these RECs to
handle project related field implementation. The REC management and
extension staff will be supported directly by subject matter specialists
(P PS) working full-time for the project from the four technical
agriculture and soil conservation services and by the staff of the
Project Management Unit.
3.16.        Work in the 'ield will be carried out in designated
expansion areas to be ideitified through detailed technical and
socio-economic surveys. These expansion areas are in the work regions
(WXBPP) of ten rural extension centers that presently serve the first
thirty project sub-districts. Similar expansion areas will be identified
in the second four districts.



57 
Chart I
Upland Agriculture and Coneervatlon Project Organization
I  Lead  I                                                           I
h4inlotDryl           Bupporting Nitnltries                    _
Illinletry I       lMinis tylInlentrylKinLatrylKinistrylI4nlletryI
NatLonal       of   |IBAPPUIASI  ot    I of    I   of   I  of   I  of   I                                                                I Agency for Agri-   I
Level    I Horme   I            inance |Pop. andlAgrLaul-Iroreetryl PubiLc |I                                                           cultural Research  |
jAffairL   |       I         lnvlron.|  ture  I            I WorkS                               I                                   and
| g                           |~~~~~~~~~------------------------------------------------------------------| Developlunt (mm)} 
| --|  Task orce ows_
Provin-       vrnorI
clal Level    |                    Provincial Guldance Tea                                                                                            I
I               Vc VLel vice I eeo-I I 
|    ICherLmnlChalr-IChaLr-1  re  I                     K  a  a  b  a  r  a                                          I Agency for Agriculture     I
loan I oman III tarv I                                                                               | Research and Developuent |
_          I       I        I       I       I        I      I       I              I                       (AARD   'rea-Leader
|    |  PIDA | P4DAI  PaIDAI PODIAI Agri- Irorestryl ubliol Land I AARD I              I       I                                      I
I|I  I  I  I   l| ulturel        I Workel  Use I        I       I        
TASSIU
I          I                                                                 - planning, *gt. syetems 
|          | IAOJUCT a)ORDIMATION OPtICx (Poo)                                  a NZU/Kvaluation  ystes                               I
I          I                                                                   development/guLdance                                   |
|    | Project OCordinator    |                                              - technical aseletance                                   |
I    | Planning Officer         |             | Technical Assistance |         through line officeL                                   |
I    | tlIS/evaluation Officer |             |      Cntractor          I     - annual budget prepsrAtlon/
|    | finance Officer           |                                             consolidation                                          |
District  |
Chief    |                                              DLitrict Guidance Teame
__ __ _ __ _I                            I                        oo IVsatiIce I            a  a       era rands
I-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_  -       Chair-I Chairl Becre-I    I                               ood    Estate   Llve- |ub-     Coope-  |  |
g pimprI |    n      man   tary I PU I Cropse  Crops    stock  SIAT | rativeg   AIRD    uje|g
Planning Officer         |                                                                                                                     I
I MIs/tvaluation Ofticer I
I finance Officer          I                                                                                                                     I
_ ,--I                                                                                                                                   I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
I           I                        I                       F.PK. P. P.                               I
FP U    |                          Pwod CroDa I Livestock Leatate I 801l Conservation AIRO |                  I      A A R D
II  -I  I                         IField LaboratoryI
I  Acca n    |
I   Itad.I 
T1_-~~                                                                                                              o p   ___  On-aste
I                                                                                                               I  Research |
I   irct to xpanelon Area. I         L     .
I gxpanelon I           I Expanmlon I         I Expansion I
Are         I          I   Area    I         I   Agea    I
11462lijoy#6/28/84



- 58 -
3.17.        Conservation access roads and seed procurement will be
implemented at the district level by various technical agencies under the
general management of the respective Project Manager and Project
Management Units. These support activities will be carried out in the
identified expansion areas. Access roads will be executed by the
district Public Works offices, assisted by district Manpower offices.
Seed procurement will be managed by the Project Manager assisted by the
district representative of the Ministry of Cooperatives and other
technical agencies involved in seed production and distribution. The
Project Innovation Fund will be managed by the provincial Project
Coordination Office. Each component activity carried out at the district
level will be under the full-time management of a Sub-project Manager.
3.18.        Management of the SUPS pilot project presents a particularly
difficult problem, since four technical services from two ministries play
important roles. To insure unified management of the SUFS pilot project,
the FXPP will assume overall responsibility for the coordinated
management of the component. For SUFS pilot project activities, the
chairman of the FIPP will report directly to the PMU Project Manager.
The FKPP will appoint a senior representative from one of the
participating services as the full-time Sub-project Manager who will
manage the SUFS project including daily supervision of participating
technical personnel from all four services.
3.19.        To Insure the timely and coordinated implementation of all
these related activities, the respective PMUs will schedule regular
supervisory meetings with all Sub-project Managers as well as meet
regularly with the FXPP and district Guidance Teams. Also, each year a
consolidated plan and unified budget for each district will be prepared
under the leadership of the PYU Project Manager. This will be submitted
for review and approval to the respective provincial Project Coordination
Offices and Guidance Teams.
3.20.        The training components of the project will be centered in
Jakarta and managed by a full-time project officer housed in the
Executive Secretariat. This centralized management is necessary, given
the large number of possible institutional sources of training, most of
which are not located in the project area. Each province and
participating district will identify Its training requirements annually.
The Project Training Officer (PTO) and the Interagency Training ComMittee
within the Executive Secretariat will assist provincial and district
authorities in formulating training plans. The P7D will be responsible
for identifying appropriate institutions to carry out the training.
3.21.        The agriculture research component will be managed by the
Agency for Agriculture Research and Development (see Chart 2).
Headquarters and research facilities will be established in Central Java
with up to eight outreach sites located throughout the Jratunseluna and
Brantas Watersheds in representative agro-climatic zones. Research and
extension will coordinate through frequent meetings of AARD personnel and
project officials at the provincial and district levels. AARD staff will



- 59 -
attend provincial and district Guidance Team meetings as well as meet
frequently with the district FICPPs. On sits research by AARD personnel
will be coordinated with the extension teams working out of the rural
extension centers. An annual provincial review of AARD' s research
program will be held to insure close linkage between research and
implementation personnel.
3. Unified Budgeting
3.22.        The GOI, IBED and AID have agreed in general terms on a
financial system for the project that will minimize budgetary
fragmentation, an issue that has plagued the AID financed Citanduy II
Project. During Project Year 0 (IFY 84/85) this unified financial
system, which is expected to utilize the Inpres Dati I funding channel,
will be fully defined and made operational. The outline of the
financiaL/budgetazy system presented here is more fully elaborated in the
Financial Plan, Section V.
a. Inpres Dati I (Provincial Inpres Program)
3.23.           The Inpres Dati I will be used to finance the Sustained
Upland Farming System component, the Access Road component, the Training
component and the incremental operating expenses associated with the
Project Executive Secretariat, the provincial Project Coordination
Offices, the respective district level Project Management Units, FXPPs
and participating rural extension centers. The GOI has agreed to modify
the appropriate Inpres Dati I Ministerial Instructions to accommodate
this broader range of expenditure categories.
3.24.           The GOI, IBRD and AID have agreed that the overall ratio
of financial support for the project should be approximately 40% from the
GOI and 60% from the combined 1BRD and AID contributions.
3.25.           With the guidance of the provincial Project Coordinator
and the provincial Guidance Team, each district level Project Manager
will be designated as the responsible officer for the management of the
Inpres Dati I budget. Project Managers may alter any line item of the
budget by 10% on their own authority and an additional 10% subject to the
approval of the provincial Project Coordinator.
3.26.           Each Project Coordinator will be the authorized GOI
representative responsible for both AID and IBRD grant/loan funds used to
reimburse all project activities pre-financed by Inpres Dati I, with the
exception of the training component as discussed below.
3.27.           (1)  Sustained Upland Farming Systems Component:  Inpres
Dati I funds will finance the recruitment of additional PLP extension
personnel; the establishment and operation of demonstration farms; seed
production, procuresent and distribution; the development of grass and
tree nurseries; the distribution of planting materials; expansion program
subsidies; incremental operating expenses of participating rural
extension centers associated with project execution and unforseen needs
of the project.



- 60 -
3.28.           (2)  Conservation Access Roads:  The Inpres Dati I budget
will finance the project's conservation access roads. These funds will
be under the management of the Project Manager of each district PMU. The
district Project Manager will transfer implementation authority each year
to the district Public Works Department (PU) for the construction of the
access roads. PU will be responsible for designs, specifications and
cost estimates, assisted by the district Manpower office to insure that
appropriate labor intensive construction methods are employed. The
district Public Works office will be responsible for the force account
construction of all access roads.
3.29.           (3)  Training Program:  The Inpres Dati I budget will
finance all training activities. A full-time Project Manager of this
component will be appointed and housed within the Executive Secretariat.
Funding for field training directly implemented in the project area will
be subr-allocated to the district Project Managers.
3.30.           (4)  Operating Expenses:  The project's incremental
operating expenses financed from the Inpres Dati I budget will include
cost of data generation and analysis for purposes of project monitoring
and planning and counterpaxt rupiah financing for technical assistance.
b. Ministry of ALriculture
3.31.           Incremental support and agricultural research staff will
be funded by the MOA. Agricultural research will be directly financed at
the national level through a regular Agency for Agriculture Research and
Development (AARD) budget proposal, supplemented, where necessary, by
direct budgetaxy pre-financing from the Ministry of Finance, to cover the
donor reimbursable components of the research activities. Prior to
budget approval, the annual research plan and budget will be submitted to
the provincial Guidance Team in each province for review and coordination
with other project components.
3.32.           The Ministry of Ayriculture will provide, through its
regular budget process (DUP/DIP), the annual budget to finance all
provincial and district agricultural personnel (managerial, i.e., SUPS
component Sub-project Managers, technical and extension staff) required
to carry-out the SUPS pilot project.
c. Ministry of Forestry
3.33.           The Ministry of Forestry, through the Directorate General
of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation will provide the incremental
budget reguirements for soil conservation personnel (PPL and PPS) and
funds for land suitability and capability studies, including aerial
photography and mapping as needed. Appropriate activities in this latter
category will be eligible for reimbursement by AID and IBRD loan funds.



- 61 -
4. Community Management
3.34.        Communities will be encouraged to propose and organize their
own collective efforts. The Project Innovation Fund will encourage grass
roots community initiatives consistent with the general purpose of the
project.
5. Proposed Project Organization Structure (see Chart 1)
a. National Level
3.35.           (1)  The Ministry of Home Affairs as Lead Agency.  The
project will be organized under the direction of the Ministry of Home
affairs. The Ministries of Agriculture and Fore.try will be adjutant,
supporting agencies responsible for providing technical, administrative
and policy support to the project.
3.36.           The principal task at the national level will be to put
in place the overall policy framework to govern the execution of the
project. A second task will be to review the annual progress of the
project and, based on that review, approve the consolidated annual plan
and budget for the project.
3.37.           (2)  Executive Secretariat and MHA, MOF and MOA Backstop
Suppprt: The Executive Secretariat of the project will have full-time
staff to administratively backstop the Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project. Por this purpose the Executive Secretariat will be
staffed by two full-time professionals from the Director General for
Regional Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, and one professional
staff each from the Hinistry of Forestry and the Ministry of
Agriculture. Additionally, the designated Project Manager for the
training component of the project will be assigned to the Executive
Secretariat. The tra4-4ig officer will be designa-ted as the authorized
GOI representative for the application and use of AID and ZBRD funds
budgeted for training under the project.
The tasks of the Executive Secretariat will include:
- drafting for consideration and approval of the involved
ministries the required Interministerial Instructions (SX3) or ministry
specific guidelines for project execution.
- the annual review with designated repres-ntatives from
the Ministry of Population and Environment (XLH), Ministry of Finance and
BAPPENAS of eacb provinces' performance in the preceeding fiscal year and
proposed plan and annual budget for the coming fiscal year.
- maintaining close liaison with participating provincial
and district governments, participating ministries and with USAID and
IBRD to resolve administrative or financial problems impeding project
implementation.



- 62 -
b. Provincial Level
3.38.           The Governors of Central and East Java, or their
designes, will be the principal decision makera responsible for overall
project direction and performance. Authority for program management,
with the exception of the research and training components of the
project, will be delegated by the central government to the two
provincial governors. To insure effective planning and execution of the
prois-. the governor of each province will redelegate authority to
pr.2wircLAl level institutions and overall field planning and management
resp_ :X;bllty to participating district chiefs and their respective
adiinistrations.
3.39.           (1) Provincial Guidance Team.  At the provincial level,
each governor will create a provincial Guidance Team responsible for:
- the design, installation and refinement of a
decentralized planning/management system to increase the capacity of
district governments to plan, manage and monitor f4ild programs in upland
agriculture and conservation;
- the establislment of standards against which performance
of participating districts will be reviewed and upon which budget
decisions will be based;
- the development of capacity within each provincial
administration to carry out basic monitoring and evaluation studies,
constraints to implementation studies and process evaluations;
- the annual review and recommendations regarding each
district's operational plan and proposed budget;
- providing technical assistance to participat4ng district
administrations in technical fields and planning and management;
- preparation Cbeginning in Year 3) of a long-tern,
comprehensive upland agriculture and conservation plan and program.
3.40.           (2) A Prolect Coordination Office will carry out the
policy instructions of the provincial Guidance Team. The governor will
appoint as its head a Pr6ject Coordinator who will be the authorized GOI
representative responsible for the application and use of both USAID and
IBRD funds used to pre-finance or reimburse all project activities, with
the exception of the research and training coqponents of the project.
3.41.           The Project Coordinator in each province will also be the
authorized GOI representative for the application and use of IBRD and
USAID grant and loan funds to finance provincially based technical
assistance contracts Cboth dmestic and international) and the Project
Innovation Fund.



- 63 -
3.42.           The Project Coordinator will be supported by a full-time,
three person staff drawn from relevant sections of the provincial
goverment. This staff will be compoted of:
- a planning officer with broad experiance in agriculture
and rural development;
- a monitoring/evaluation officer with professional
training in economics and statistics;
- a finance officer with professional training in
accounting and finance.
3.43.           Each participating prtivincial technical service will
designate a professional staff member to serve as that agencies'
representative to the Project Coordination Office to insure coordination
of each line aSency's activities.
3.44.           All requests for IBRD and USAID reimbursement for project
activities executed under the authority of each provincial governor will
be forwarded to USAID/IBRD, via the appropriate national ministries under
the signature of the respective provincial Project Coordinator.
3.4.            Technical Assistance (see Section IV) proviWd tc. emach
province i-ill be assigned to the provincial Project Coordination Office
and placed under the direction of the respective Project Coordinators.
c. District Level
3.46.           (1) District chiefs of each participating district will
be responsible to the provincial governor for the overall planning and
coordinated implementation of the project in their respective districts.
3.47.           The district chief wll' be authorized to modify and
strengthen the district Forum for Coordination of Agriculture Extension
(FXPPJ, whi-h, in addition to its regular functions, will be the district
level steering and coordinating body =esponsible for the overall
direction and perforance of the Sustained Upland Farming System (-SUPS)
couponmnt of the project. The FXPP will recomnend app-intment of a
senior professional from one of the four participating technical services
(i.e. Fool Crops, Livestock, Estate Crops and Soil Conservation) to serve
as the Sub-project Manager for the SUPS pilot project. The district
chief will be responsible for the final decision on this appointment.
The PKPP will meet at least quarterly to revIew project implementiation
performance and problems and to approve plans and budgets for the ,UFS
pilot project prior to su"bission to the Project management Unit.
3.48.           (2) A district Guidance Team will be c=eated by each
district chief. Its primary function will be to serve as a steering body
responsible for the overall direction and performance of the UACP. The
team will meet guarterly to review performance and problems and to
approve, prior to submission to higher authorities:



- 64 -
- medium-range program plans;
- the annual project budget;
- the annual training plans
-  the annual agricultural research plan;
-  quarterly progress and financial reporta covering each
component of the project;
- the annual prc 'ect report and evaluations.
3.49.           (3) The Project management Unit (PXU) will be headed by
an experienced Project Manager, recommended by the district chief and
approved by the provincial governor. Be will be responsible to the
district chief for directing the interagency planning and program
execuztion. The Project Manager wlll head a small, full-time staff
composm-l of a plan'nig officer, a monitoring and evaluation officer and a
finamca 4fficer, who will have qualifications comparable to their
provincial level counterparts. These personnel will be drawn from the
existing staff of each participating district government and assigned to
work full-time undor the direction of the Project Manager.
3.50.           The Project Management Unit will assume direct
responsibility for the training component and the Project Innovation Fund
at the district level.
3.51.           In conjunction with participating technical agencies, the
PHU is also responsible for:
- periodic generation and analysis of technical and
socio-economic data for project planning (including land use and
capability surveys);
- formulation and integration of annual and medium-te-
plans;
- preparation of a consolidated annual budget and
supervision of disbursement of the budget to participating implementing
agencies;
- coordination of all project components with specific
emphasis on establishing co-mnication among implementing agencies
responsible for execution of i"divIdual components and between
implementing agencies and project beneficiaries;
- preparation of training requests for district management
personnel, technicians, and extension personnel and the coordination of
district training' requirements with the training component Project
Manager;
- preparation of a comaunity management program to
encourage fo-xation of comunity farmer groups and their involvement in
program decision making;



- 65 -
- solicitation, review and recommendation for approval of
projects to be financed under the Project Innovation Funds;
- periodic monitoring/evaluation of all component
activities executed under the project.
3.52.           (4) The Technical Agencies will be responsible for the
two remaining components, Conservation Access Roads and SUPS, each of
which will appoint a full-time Sub-project Manager. For access roads,
the lead agency will be the Public Works Office in each participating
district.
3.53.           The SUFS component involves four technical agencies,
three district technical offices, Food Crops, Livestock and Estate Crops,
and the Soil Conservation Service. As noted in para. 3.48, each FXPP
will appoint a representative from one of the participating agencies to
serve as the full-'ime SUPS Sub-project Manager. In addition, each
participating agency will appoint a full-time person to be responsible
for its contribution to the overall field program. Coordination of the
activities of these four technical agencies will be the responsibility of
the Sub-project Manager and the FKPP. While the three agricultural
agencies are already members of the PKPP, arrangements for the inclusion
of the Soil Conservation Service in the FKPP will be required prior to
disbursement of funds.
3.54.           The responsibilities of the Sub-project Managers and
their respective line agencies include:
- preparation of annual technical and operational plans;
-  preparation of the budget to implement the plans;
- implementation of component activities in line with the
consolidated implementation schedule develcped by the PMU;
- preparation of quarterly progress and fina=Jial reports;
- preparation of an annual report detailing implementation
perf o-ance.
d. Field Level
3.55.           All component activities of the project will be
implemented in designated expansion areas. All exten ion work, planting
material development, demonstration and expansion program activities will
be executed through participating RECs under the direction of each REC
supervisor, advised and assisted bu subject matter specialist (PPS) from
the three agriculture technical services and the Sub-Center for Land
Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation. On-site agriculture research
carried out by AARD will be conducted in representative expansion areas.
Conservation Access Roads, under the supervision of the respective
district Public Works offices will Likewise be constructed in designated
expansion areas.



- 66 -
*. Aqriculture Research
3.56.           The Agency for Agricultural and Development (AARD) will
formulate and coordinate agriculture research policy for the project.
AMRD will be supported in fozmulating its research priorities by the
relevant Directorates General within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
the MOP Directorate General of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation and
selected agriculture colleges. Chart 2 presents the general relationship
of the AARD to the overall project management structure.
3.57.           A Farming Systems Research Project Management Unit (PMU)
with a team of five specialists will be appointed by the head of the AARD
to provide technical support and leadership in their areas of expertise.
One member of this team will be appointed full-time Project Leader. The
PMU will receive technical support and leadership from the relevant
research centers of AARD, as well as from elements named in the previous
paragraph. In addition, the PHU will coordinate with the respective
provincial Guidance Teams and the district level PXPPs, the Soil
Conservation Service and other project related agencies. This will
provide the necessary liaLison for exchange of information on project
needs and feedback on implementation of project research
recommendations. Field coordination between onr-site research and
participating RECs will be stressed. (See Chart 3.)
3.58.           The PMW also will establish close coordination with other
projects Involved in upland farming and soil and water conservation,
particularly with the Solo, Citanduy II and Jogyakarta projects. The
Solo Project is directly associated with the BRLIT soil conservation
research and as such will be included in the overall research plan to be
submitted to the Provincial Guidance Teams and AARD. The Citanduy I: and
Jogyakarta research components will be eventually incorporated into the
lARD structure for farm4mg systems research.
3.59.           a headquarters with research facilities will be
established within one of the target basins, on a location representative
of a major ecological zone. The preferred location is within a radius of
20 km from Ungaran or Salatiga, in Central Java. This will provide
comnmnication and logistic support to the field research and support
staff. A sub-headquarters will be established in the Brantas Basin,
preferrably in Malang. Subsequently, the Citanduy 1: and Jogyakarta
research components will constitute the headquarters for their respective
watersheds.
3.60.           In addition to these facilities, eight onr-ste research
plots (OSR) will be eatabliahed on areas representative of the major
agro-ecologial and socio-economic conditions found in both river basins.
Partitioning the target areas by biological and socio-economic categories
will ensure that OSRs represent the target areas.



- 67 -
Chart 2
Farming Systems Research Component Organixation
I Xnter-Ministerial
| t.olicy Committee
I                             I
I     I
T_________ _I , Advisory Board:      I
-Central and East Java                         I I  | Research Centers o
| Provincial Guidance Teams          I         | Ministry of Agriculture |
I            I --- ----I (DGPC, DGIS, DGE) |
|            |        I Ministry of Forestry    I
|            |        I(Dir.Soil Cons., BRLaKT)
I  I    I Agricultural Colleges   |
.I           I
X abupaten Forum  |    | Research Project
I for Coordination I    I Management Unit (P1W) I
I of Agricultural  |---I Project Leader        I
Extension (Modi- |    | Technical Team        |
f ied) FXPP4    I      T                I  I
I  I            I   I
I~             I            I                     1 
|  Brantas Head-    I |lCitanduy _I     Jogyakarta I I Jratunseluna
quarters      I I  Project   | I  Project  I I Beadquarters &
I    I    t    |                   I Field Laboratory I
I OSR  loSRI |OSRI |oSRI                             loSRI IO    OS 10|SRI COSRI
mT --r rT  m                                           r r      -7 -
I                          lI    
I|a  Cs I                                              RE C
#4200A



- 68 -
chart 3
Research Personnel
Degree           Number
1. Headquarter/Field Laboratory (Salatiga)
Project Leader                              Ph.D.               1
Project Secretary                           Drs./SH             1
Component Research Coordinator              Ph.D./MS            5
- Ebod Crop (1)
- Tree Crop (1)
- Livestock Cl)
- Soil       (1)
- Socio-economic tl)
Statistician                                Ir./kS              1
Training Officer                            Zr.                 1
Senior Staff                                Ir.                 2
Office Personnel                            BS/SMA              8
*ield Assistant                             SPMA/SNAXMA        10
Driver                                                          3
2. Branch Office (Malang)
Coordinator                                 Ir.                 1
Research Staff                              Ir.                 1
Office Personnel                            SMA/SPPA            3
Driver                                                          1
3. Project Sites (8 sites)
Coordinator (1/site)                        Ir.                 8
Research Staff (3/site)                     Ir.                24
Field Assi--nt (12/site)                    SPM&               96
Office Personnel (2/site)                   SMA/SPMA           16
Driver (1/site)                                                 8



- 69 -
6. Key Project Staff
3.61.        Table 19 lays out the key staff required on a full-time
basis to implement the major project components. Additional staff will
be needed in certain categories (e.g. technica' agriculture personnel and
extension personnel) either when there is no on-going program or where
the existing programs are too thinly staffed to spare personnel. In
other cases (e.g. the provincial Project Coordination offices) it is
expected that existing provincial government personnel can be reassigned
to fill full-time project positions.   It is not certain that district
governments can free sufficient qualified personnel to staff the Project
Management Units. Discussion with BAPPENAS indicates that the GOI is
prepared to consider additional staff in all categories to meet the
requirements of the project. This important requirement will be
specifically addressed during negotiations.
IV.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
A. Purpose
4.01.    Technical Assistance will be provided to support the Ministries
of Agriculture and Forestry and the Executive Secretariat at the national
level. TA also will be provided to support development of managerial and
technical capacity at the provincial and district levels. Finally, a
collaborative agreement between AARD and a consortiunm of international
agriculture research institutes will be financed by AID to strengthen
technical exchange in the field of farming systems research. A profile
of planned Technical Assistance is presented in Chart 4. The Technical
Assistance budget is presented in Annex 5, Table 4.
1. Provincial Level Technical Assistance
4.02.        Technical assistance supporting provincial and district
operations will be provided by a direct USLID contract with a US or
eligible 941 country company, a joint venture or a sub-contract. The
level of effort will be approxtuately 70 person years of service of which
about half will be externally recruited consultants and half composed of
Indonesian consultants.
2. Farming Systems Research Collaborative Agreement
4.03.        The Farming Systems Research co)mponent will be supported by
an AID financed collaborative agreement between AARD and IRRI,
representing a consortium of international agriculture research centers.
One long-term senior scientist will backstop the farming systems
researchu commodity and discipline oriented scientists will provide
additional support, working with AARD countexparts for about two months
each year for each commodity/discipline. The overall level of effort
will be approximately 12 person years.



- 70 -
3. National Level Technical Assistance
4.04.        Three long-terz specialists from the United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA) Soil Conservation Service will be
assigned to the Executive Secretariat. They will assist: a) project
training and materials development; b) the MO? in conservation planning,
management and policy formulation; and c) the Ministry of Agriculture in
upland agriculture plann;.ng, management and policy formulation.
Appropriate short-term asaistance in specialized disciplines will also be
financed. The overall level of effort will be approximately 12 person
years.
V.   COST ESTDHATE AND FINANCIAL PLAN
A. Cost Estimate
5.01.    Total project costs for Phase I are estimated at US$ 50.1
million of which $14.1 million is the foreign exchange component.
Because of the tax-exempt status of the implementing agencies, these
costs do not include local, provincial and national' taxes. Of the total
cost AID Wll contribute $18.9 million, $5.0 millioi. as a grant and $13.9
on a loan basis. The IBRD will provide a loan of $11.3 million. The GOl
contribution 'in kind and In rupiah will total $20.0 million, or 40% of
estimated project funding. The 'in kind' contributions from the project
beneficiaries, e.g., labor and land removed from production, have not
been included in the project cost estimates.
5.02.   Tables 20 and 21 sunmarize the overall project costs by foreign
exchange and rupiah requirements and by sources of financing.  A 10%
contingency factor has been added to the project's base costs. An
inflation factor of 7% compounded has been applied to the base costs and
contingency line item. Total price contingencies for the seven year
period will be 21% of baseline and contingency costs. A summary of
project costs by year is presented in Table 22. Details of estimated
costs are presented in Annex 5, Tables 1-8.
B. Methods of Financina
1. Introduction
5.03.        Special attention was given during project design to the
appropriate allocation of MBRD and AID funds among the various components
to insure the efficient disbursement of funds and the proper accounting
of both AID and IBRD resources. To judge which source of f4nancIng for
each project component was appropriate, a number of factors were
considered. Among these considerations were:
- GOI preference to use AID funds to finance technical
assistance.



- 71- -
Table 19
UPLAND AGRECULTUR  AIND COmSERVATiON PROJEC?
FULL-TIME PmOFI5SIOIAIL AttD EXrE'lSION STAFrING  RE  IRIN iNs
INCAEHENTAL/YEAR 1/
lltAR     l                    |IYY 1984/s51 1985/86 1 1986/87 | 1987/8m   | 1988/89 I 1989/90 I 1990/91 I                   |_    OULAYIVE    |
I-  -             POSITION                                 |                  I___       2          3      _      _4      5          6            7              TOTAL        |
A. National Iovel                                                                                              4    1 _           _          _            _________
L . EKecutLve 50crot rlat                                  |            |          I           |          |          |          I I
2. Taimlg   1Nciwnt(rAt  A)aL/             n2                    ...n.  .         .    - 1 -- …………                          …                              Z --- ---------  2
b.In. of oreestry                                I            ------------------I---------I------------------------I--------------
a. Min. of Agriculture            i,                                        - 1   --    ---- -------------------------                  ---                          |
|    2. Traltg Ceopornt Pcoject t4arager  Ageney 7)1 |      1   --I1---------1---------1---------1---------1---------1---------1---- -----II
3. Agriculture Research Coqonent (AARD)                   I            |           I                     I
| - ProlectP eaderojoxt                                    I dI   --              -       --a-I-- ---------.---------I------------------------------------ --- --
I       -fProject Tm _(PhDMA)   5                          I      5   -----                         ---- - ------ ---------                    --                   S         |
D B.  rovinCias  Level (Central and Bast Jav
|    1. Project Coordinator x 2                            |      2   --|---------|------- ----------           -       -        --------- --------I --
2. Project Planning Officer x 2                             2   ------------------I---------I------------------I------------------I                           2
3. ProJectt NIS/1valuation Officer x 2               |      2 I                . .-- - ------- --------- ------------------l--------- --2
4. Project Finnce OfIscet x 2                             I          ---------- ---------------------------    --             I----------------I                   2         I
IC. District Level                                         I            I           I          I          I          I          I          I             I                    I
1. PHUNAASENT BTArr||||||||||
|       a. Project manager                                 |     4       ---------       4      ---------1---------1--------                       -- --I          *          I
b. Project PlanningOtfficer                                    --1-------       4      --I----------------I------ -I -1------1--------- ---I
|       e. Project MonitorLng Officer                      I     4      --…----I---      4      ---------1--------------------------------------                              I
d4. Project r:nance Officqr                                     4  --         ----I     4                           I---------1I-------- ---------1- ------- --_  - --I
2. AgrLiulture + rorestry TECHNICALltAP?  j/   I                       I           I          I          I          I          I          I             I                    I
a. PM   ood Crops                                        4      ---------1    4        --------------------------- --                 -------                        I
I       b. PPS PUAS                                        I      4     II    4    I-----I----                                 * -------------i - -
ea.PlM LLveatock                                          I      4      ---------       4      ---------|---------|----------------------------                     
I       d. PMP  *tate Crops                                       4     |-.-|    4    1-----…-                 …     I…-…----S-I-----   _ - - ---- - -
I                                                          I            I           1          1          I          1          1          1             I                    1
I    3. IP P ANAaLENT TEXmNSIO  STAPtP  10 RfCs)  2/ |                             I |                    I          I          I          I             I                    I
|       a. 3xtension Hanasere PR4                               l  10          16  |   24    I    22   …---------I---------… -------------------                   72         |
|       b. PPL/PLP gxtenslon Agents                             s 5o    |      SO  |  120          110         ……|-----------… ----I                             360          1
c. Ilursery Statf  KO/KOA                                4      I _             4    j       2    j           _        |  |        I                      10         I
I  I   115  I  96 110             1341              I          I          I             I        525         I
j   Includes staff reqaired in 1986/S7 for anticipated expanaion into four more districts.
2/  Inremental staff reqcireeente by the year reqaired.
* Exaluding AARD Rosearch Staff (found on chart 3, p. 92)
11462hijoyiG/21/14



Chart 4
TICCMICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEOUL6
(Month shove beginning of servLee)
1. Provincial Lcvcl TSchnical Assistance
Origiln       Year 0      Year I       Year 2         Year 3        year 4        Year 5        Year 6
Planner/Team LEader (Sr. 3                   xpat      Novexber 84
Planner/Team Leader                        Rxpat       Feb.85
MAnagesent Specialist                       bxpat.     Jan. 65
Management Specialist                       expat      Feb. 95
AhmInistrative Assistant                    Indo       Jan. *5
Admlnistrative Assistant                    Indo       Feb. 95
Roads Engineer                              Sxpat      Apr. 85                                                                                                               C
Scnds Production Advlior                    Ixpat      Jun. 94
Agriculture Econosist                       Indo        tar. 35      _---
Agriculture Economist                       Expet      Now. 84
txtenslon Agronomist                        Indo       reb. *5
Extenelon Agronolnet                        Uxpat      Feb. 85
Treecrops Specialist                        Scpat      Apr. 85                    -
Livestock Speciallst                       Expat       Nov. 94
Special Short term coneu tants an
needed
2) rarming system Ree-amh Collaborative Agreement
Senior Soientist for  ara lng Systens                  Nov. 64
Five SpeclaLlate eacht two months per year                           April *S
3) Executive secretariate Technical Assistance
Specialist for Training and                            Nov.  4       __4__
Katertal Development
Consultant for conservation planning.                                April 85
management and policy (*OA)
Convultant for Conservation planning.                                April *5
management and policy (Nor)
Short-tezu Technical Assistance                                      Apr1i  95
4l462A%joyv6/28/64



- 73 -
Table 20
Upland Agrlculture *rel Conservation Proiect
Deaarlptlon of costs byCguponents  foreign laxhanqe and LWcal Cotste
I                                               I                  Rp Ilillon          aII  ______             _   U.S. 1000    __  T I     of                   | 0 of Total |
I          Project  Component                   |   Loal        1       IoreIqn  I    Total                                                     ||Local    I    orign  ooreiqn Ex.   Base Costs |
I nstitutional Development                           k 5386     I      63968         13776    II        5388    I      6388    I    13776    II    Sg            I       a      I
|  Nktional IAvUl uIxecutive Secretariat              (216)     |        173           (2333   II    (2163       1       (171    1     (2331   II                I              I
|  Provincial level OrgJniaatiou & Mgt.               (919      I       (63     1      19623   II    (9193       1       (6331 I        (9023   II               I              I
I  Distriet Level Organization 1 Ilt            |   (16913             (1923    |    (1983)   1I   (16913        3      (1923       1 (18833    II
Technlcal Assistance                         3   (2563)      I    (91163          (106793   II   (2563)    |    (9116)   I   (106793
rraming SySLOtS Research Component            1    3283       1       311     1      3616    11       3283     1       333    1      3616    II       2         I     10 o
Invesetant                                      I    is5    1          (T17031   I      2 56)    I       (85)1          (1701           ( (2561         -         I             3
|  Research, Training and Recurrent Coats            (31983   (|G1633    1    (33613   II              (1993    |      (1633  (| 3611   II                       I              I
Sustainablo Upland Farming Symees t e                     |                                    I                I               I               II               I              I
I  rllot ProJects (Includiny Cooperative   |                    |               |               II               |               |               I        I         |
soud Dovolnpuent)                               |1                                                    10599     I       914    I    11513    I          6               3 32    I
Inve itsent                                  |      (723            (9143    I      i93161   II       (72)   |      (914)   |       (966)   II                |
Rn.wrtent iO*.uat                                142283                           (422631                             1      I    (42283 1  1
SUvS Subsidy                                 |   (62993                            (62,193    3     162993                         (62993    I                 I
I~~~ I                                              I                               11                                I             II               I              I
| Ikuan Resources Development Coaponent    ;    1213             |     1032    J       2245     I      1213    I       1032    I       2245             7 2 7    |      6
Consurvation  ALcuse Roajjds QWa',nant              4344      1        66     I      4410    II       4344     3        66    I       4410    II       0        I      12     I
I Project linovtlon Funfl (PIF)                  3     400              100    3        500     3        400             100             500    II       I
Total Idea C  ts                             |   25227       I    10633            3 16060    II    25227    |    10933    3    36060    II    76              I    100
I    Contingencles (109 ot base cost)            I    2521             1083    I       3606    II       2523            1063    I       3606     I       8        I      10      I
1    Price Contingencies 177  compounded)   |    8234           |      2236    |    10470    I          9234    3       2236           1 10470    I     16        I     29       |
|    URD Loanee r                                               |       100    |        100    I |                       100    I        100    I |                              I
I nTOAL PROJECT awTs                                 3 25984     |    14252    |    50236    II    35964    |    14252    |    50236                                   139
I                                                I   u.. I            .....      I .....   I          I          *" I    . _ . I    *.....  I I                   I              I
* Due to rounding line Items wLthin components may not add.
11462Asjoys 7/2/I4



. 74 -
tabl 211
2I2anil Agriculture and Connervatlion Pro ect
!T41yise  Flnancing 1evolo by O,u.ntt  AID/IUWOOP
9                  i        -I       I          II I-Targt                      I       I         I         I
I|tOJOet CowoInt                 I       A I D      I  lanD  |ol  I Total  I D  r/WZ I               A I D       | iu    I |oo   I TotalI
Grant I IIU      Loani___    !~~tIGet                                  la
I                                         I Or nt~ I          In_      I lI |   |         I            IInirLnana   n    I  n       I       I          I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p   1  illoan --1--~ 3---------                                                          us     oeo -   --
9 . Institutional Developmnt         I    4400 I   516  1        1  421  |   15776 1  69/31   I     4400 9   5163                4 I 4211 I   13176
I       tlalional velk Uesoc. S                     1      171         I   216        233              1 1             171          I  7111    ..m  I
I       provincial Lvel org. 6 Mgt.    I                 1041          1   070 1      902 1            I         1    1041          1   171       S161
|       Ollstriot Lvel Or.   IMgt.        |         |    326               s |  1SS |    1683 1        |         |    326 |         |  1555 |     1283
Technicaol Asiotan                       I    4400 1   4714 1         1  1565 I   10679 1             1    4400 1   4714 1            156 S   10619
I   11. Fanmng Systow Reeoh Coarc         I h            707   1 1000    1109        3616 1  69/31   1           1    707 1   100  11             369 16
|       Knwsefit.nt                       |         I |       I11   i    I I |T                        I         I   l11 i      -as *0|1
PA em.e trg. a Recurrent Costs    |              536     1720 |  1109 |    3365 |             |          1    536 1   1720   i 1109 1    3265
11. SUrg PlIat Projects                  I                4665   1 2526 1 4300 1   11513     6 63/27   1        1  4685 1   2526 i   460o  I   lst1  s
lIvestment                       I               9 5111        1   72   1 ii                  I         1 1 172                          - "I
I Amurrent ost                   I          I         I        I 42291    4226 1               1         1         1           42261    422.1
Uts ubdidy                                      3 9   3771  2520 |           6299 |            |             37711   2521 |               6299|
I     tV. mian  eoasrces Daev .I                              I   1300     94I       2245     56/42   I           I 5          13001   9451    2245I
I    V. 0oobeatlon kccess FASAm  -.                       I6  2472 I  1872   1 4410 |  56/42                           A 66 At 2.'   1672 1   4416 I
|  Vt.  roiset Innovation and P   Pa       I    500I          I        I        I     aSOO    100/0    I    SOO I                                 SOOI
V. Total ease colts                          900    101121 I    100 I 12439 I   36060 I  66/34           4 906   10621       l 6100 I 12439   1 36060
I Vtt. Pwysical Ctotkoncies               I      509    1u62 1    906I  1594 I    3606 I   56/44              L O I   l     I    900 1  1594 I    36S I
I   xX. Totat ease co  t# Phaleal ost          4950 I  *f 16 I    9000 I 14033 I   364%6      $ 6S/35       4950 9 11663 I   9000   1403 3      3646 I
. _pric___nt_ _  _ncle_LO_                               I 5I   2200   6003I   10470 I   43/57   I       50  I2217I    2200 I6002I   10470!
i   Xl I Dlonh                            I         I         I    100I |a            1009 |                     I  o           100 i        I     1i6i
I   Xtl.  WMAL. OOtC? Q  g1               I     SOO  I  13300 I 11300 I 20036 I   50236 I  60/40   I    5000 I  13900 I 11300 I 20036 I   50216 I
. ~   ~       ~       ~       . . _ ____ _-  _I  _  
* Due to rounding line item  within coqooentn way not add.
*1462Asjoyi6/28/94



Table 22
l.mav o  Eatastd Itlac   aote by Prtaect Year*
IS   illionI
I    Pr~~Iect Vyer  Irvt.....L...1                                         Ii  i                                            Total      I     Total
I   Pro¶ect   ~~~~~~~~~~~~  Ws  Is1~   SG                     O41   _____4_    6vs          41 e90     9o0i       M.000000   I- U86oso 
IInstitutional DevelevM"t                      tI 2.1 I  266.'1    2636.6 I  211.6    211.   169.          6 IG.S    1062.0I    13775.7         13175.7 
INational Level Eamautiye SCcretariat    I        50.4       3 0.4      3 0.4      3 0.4     3 0.4      3 0.4      3 0.4 I      222.6            222.6 
rcovincial Leovel 0vlavi1utistlo  IL *I.t.      2603.    1223.1     126.6     126.6     126.60    126.6I   126.6               901.6    I       961.6 
IDistrict Level 0rg4nhsation a Ngt.              245.2 I   152.4 I 152. 4 I 416.4 I    04.6 I 304.1 I    04.6 I                1612.1           1662.6 
ITachatcal Assistance                            426.23   2324.4 I2224.4 I2114.4 I1724.4 I1105.6     599.0 I                  10676.1          10616.1
IcmI   -iats    hee                          I g nn   171.1 I  jj6            I   46.7   I 45.1I    441.1 I   441.7             3 61G.3          3 616.3 
t nvestment                                  I 164.01        55.0 I                     IIII                                    239.0            239.6 
IIesearob, Tranina arA meourcent Oowt.           567.1 I    41.?1    456.17      456.17     451.7 I 441.7 I 441.1 I            277.2            2371.2 
s ustainable Ulplauk Farming lystma          IIIII                                                                                          
IPilot Projects (including 2=1peraive                             IIIIIIIa
86U8e Dev.lcjp.nt)                                M 0.1 I   SuSA      1241.6   IG162.4 I  2232.7 I2692.6 I2184.3              11512.3    I     11513.3
iInvestment                                  I    06.0 I     16.0 I    20.6       62.6                                          7       25.6    I  25.6
a  mcrn  cos                                      456.7 1   326.6 a   532.0 1   717.81 I 720.8 1   720.6 I   730.8              4221.1            4227.5S
BursU  lubeldy                               I     9.6     111.2 I    89.0 I    61.60   1491.9 I1962.0 I1452.6 I               6299.2           629.23
ISued lProcemoLng Operation                  I 120.0 I 120.0 II                                               I1                260.0    I         60.0 
Hutman Rkuoumces 0.valop.int Comporntn             40.2 I   219.       292.0      ga442.  a   s G5., I  la2. 6 a   210.4 I     2244.5            2244.S 
Ionservaktion Asceses Made Me@n5fnt          I     66.0 I      5.9 I   22.1 I 622.5 I 950.5 I   102.9 I1198.0 I                4409.9    I       4409.9
Protoct. Innovation Fund (in                II                      1 100.0 I    0100.0      00.0 I   10 0.0 I   100o.0         500.0            L500-.0 
Total Base costs                              2113.6 14114.2 I5206.6 I   066.2 I  670.1 I6230.6 I5257.4 I                   36060.1    I       6060.7
wntingenoies (109 of big* cost)             271.4 I 411.4 I 520.9 I 606.6    I  67. 0 I 622.1 I 525.7                     3 606.1    I     3606.1 
Total Base Costs _ __nt_____nei__              29S115S6             529.5   6672.6 I7007.1 I6962.7    S 783.1 a              39646.6          3966G6.6
P r ice O.sttlsjunmies 179 cumP&und*4)                    31I ii..  I   620.2 I150L.4 I2117.6    2603.2    2640.5 I         10469.9    I      10469.9 
tI 111)141) IaJ  r,u                         aiI                                                   aI                           100.0    I       100.0 
I  flrAi. nairL)eL?uri                          2984.0 I4842.4 I6559.7    0 174.2 I9164.9 I9766.9 I6623.6 I                   50235.7          S 0235.7     I
v ue to rotindinq line Ltomi. withiln components maY not AIqJ.
I146?Aijoyil/29/84



- 76 -
- ongoing KID and IBID financing of independent projects
that directly or indirectly relate to project component
activities (e.g., IBRD finaning under NAEP I a II in
support of the national agricultural extension services).
-  the comparative advantage to the GOI of IBRD vs. AIL
financing for specific components (e.g., the IBRD policy
on long-term overseas training permits financing of the
participant's spouse to accompany the partiv.pant during
training).
5.04.        An additional consideration, related to longer term
ITRD/AID/GOI strategy, influenced the manner in which project funds from
both donor sourcoes will be allocated. The IZRD intends to finance a
Phase IS upland agriculture and conservation program should the pilot
project executed under Phase I prove successful. Therefore, the IBRD
financial participation was encouraged in as many of the replicable
components of the project as possible. Consequently, the IBRD will
finance all the donor costs of the Buman Resources Development and
Conservation Access Road components as well as a share of the Sustainable
Upland Farming Systems pilot project component and the Farming Systems
Research component. With the exception of the Project Innovation Fund,
all component activities will be annually 100% pre-financed by the GOI
from the national budget based on annual plans and budgets approved by
the GOX and AID.
5.0 S.       Reimbursement generally will be about 65% of the total
cost. Raimbursement for the AID contribution to component activities
will be made after certification by appropriate AID authorities that each
component activity has been properly executed. The IBRD will reimburse
following the system it currently uses in Indonesia. The project
Nanagement Information System asses-ment reports and USAID project
reports will alert the IBED to any problems that may arise.
5.06.        Tecbnical assistance will be via AID direct contracts with
direct payment made by the USAID. A Mission issued Direct Letter of
Commitment may be issued if req2ired. Annual Commitment PILs will be
issued for the various activities. Payment documentation for
re4ibursement will indicate expenses incurred for all parties to the
agreement, i.e., AID/0I/IBRD. The administrative/financial systems to
be developed for the project's lc-al currency costs will be reviewed and
approved by the USAID Controller prior to commitment of AID funds. It is
thereafter anticipated that an AID direct contract will be entered into
with an Indonesian based accounting firm's management consulting division
to conduct annual financial reviews. AID funded commodities will be
procured by AID following direct payment procedures.



- 77 -
2. Sources of GOI Financing
a. inpres Dati I
5.07.           Except for salaries of civil servants, Inpres Dati I will
finance recurrent overhead costs, including contract extension
personnel. These recurrent overhead costs are presented in Annex 5,
Tables 1-8.
S.08.           In addition to recurrent overhead costs, the Inpres Dati
I budget will:
-  100% pre-finance the subsidies p;ovided under the
Sustainable Upland Farming System pilot project (Annex 5, Table 6).
Subsequent reimbursement will be made by TBRD/AIT.
- finance the recurrent cost and training budget of the
Human Resources Development component (Annex 5, Table 7). The GOI will
appoint a Training Coordinator to manage this component. The ministry
that assumes this responsibility will finance the salary of the Training
Coordinator.
- finance the incremental project associated recurrent
costs and investment req.irements for the CoDnservation Access Road
component (Annex 5, Table 8).
- finance the GOI ruoiah counterpart budget for the
technical assistance financed by AID and located in the two participating
provinces and in Jakarta.  (The rupiah counterpart for the Collaborative
Research Agreement between AARD and the consortium of international
agriculture research institutions will be financed separately as
described in paragraph 5.11.)
5.09.           The GOI has agreed to modify the appropriate Inpres Dati
I Ministerial Instructions to accomodate this range of expenditure
categories and to add funding to the normal Dati I level for each
participating province at levels required by project activities. All
project activities financed under this Inpres budget will be 100%
pre-financed by the GOI. To the extent required, the GOI will supplement
the Inpres Dati I budget with funds from the National Budget (Anggaran
Negara) up to the amount to be reimbursed by IBRD/AID as specified in
Ministerial Decree No. 387, 1978, Ministry of Finance.
b. Xinistry of Agriculture (MOA)
(1) Technical and Extension Staff
5.10.           The Mimistry of Agriculture's regular budget process
(DUP/bIP) will finance all prolrincial and district agricultural personnel
reqaired to carry out the Sustainable Upland Farming Systems (SUFS) pilot
project. (See Annex 5, Table 6.) Also the MOA will annually allocate
the funds necessary to finance the salary of the MOA's full-time
representative to the Executive Secretariat (Annex 5, Table 1).



- 78 -
(2) Farming Sxstems Research
5.11.           The Farming System Research component (Annex 5, Table 5)
will be 100% pre-financed annually through the normal MOA budget process
(DUP/DIP) prepared and subkitted to AARD by the project leader of the
Research Project ManAgement Unit.
c. Ministry of Forestry (MOF).
5.12.           Through the Director General of Reforestation and Land
Rehabilitation, the Ministry of Forestry wlll use its regular budget
(DUP/DIP) to finance the annual budget for all technical staff assigned
to the Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project as specified under the
Sustainable Upland Farming System pilot project budget (Annex 5, Table
6) - The MOP will also provide the annual budget for the salazy of the
full-time MOP representative on the Executive Secretariat. Incremental
budgets required for land suitability, aerial photography/mapping, etc.,
will be financed through the regular MOP DUP/DIP process. AID and IBRD
funds can be used to reimburse the GOI for mutually agreed upon eqaipment
or activities associated with this latter exper.diture category.
d. Ministry of Hone Affairs and Provincial and District
Government
5.13.           The Ministry of home Affairs (MEA) and participating
provinces and districts will provide the necessary budget through the
normal budget process to finance the incre-mntal, full-time staff
associated with the project. This includes the salary for two full-time
11A representatives to the Executive Secretariat (Annex 5, Table 1), the
Project Coordinators and staff of the two provincial Project Coordination
Offices (Annex 5, Table 2) and the Project Managers and staff associated
with each district Project Management Unit (Annex 5, Table 3).
e. Ministry of Nanpower/Public Works
5.14.           The Ministry of Public Works will provide the necessary
annual budget for Conservation Access Road Sub-project Managers and
associated technical staff and associated Ministry of Manpower staff
(Annex 5, Table 8).
3. IBPD/AID Financing and Reimbursement
5.15.        The method of AID/1BRD financing varies with the project
component. Each of the different methods is described below.
a. Technical Assistance
5.16.           All technical assistance costs will be financed by AID
and the GOI as shown in Annex 5, Table 4. AID will directly contract
with three institutions/contractors to provide the full range of
technical assistance programmed under the project. Short-term contracts
under $100,000, particularly for management information and evaluation
studies, will also be directly financed by AID.



- 79 -
b. Commodities
5.17.          All commodities (e.g. office equipment, data processing
equipment, agriculture processing equipment, vehicles, etc.) wili be
financed bin; AID under direct payment/reimbursement procedures.
c. Training
5.18.          All training, both in-country and international, will be
financed by the IBRD, and the GOI will follow the applicable IBRD
financial procedures.
d. Construction
5.19.           All in-country construction for facilities associated
with the Parming System Research and Sustainable Upland Farming Systems
components will be financed by the IBRD and the GOI and will follow
applicable IBRD financial procedures. The Conservation Access Road
component will be entirely financed by the IBRD and GOI. Road
construction will be 100% pre-financed by the GOI and subsequently
reimbursed up to 60% of actual cost by the IBRD. Reimbursement
procedures are discussed under para 5.27.
e. Joint IBRD/AID Local Currency Financing
5.20.          Local currency costs for two project components, Farming
Systems Research and the Sustainable Upland Famning System, will be
jointly financed my AID, IBRD and the Gol. The financial management
procedure to be applied for each component is described below.
(l) Farming Systems Research
5.21.          AARD will 100% pre-finance the annual research budget
through its regular DUP/DIP process supplemented by National Budget funds
as required, which subsequently will be reimbursed up to 67% of actual
cost by both AID and! IBID. the reimbursement procedure to be followed is
outlined in para 5.27.
(2) Sustainable Upland Faxming System Pilot Projects
(SUPS)
5.22.          AID and IBRD will jointly finance the annual subsidy
provided for demonstraion farms and expansion activities under the SUPS
component (Annex 5, Table 5) . The GOI will 100% pre-finance the annual
SUFS subsidy budget. Upon satisfactory completion of the annual SUFS
program, the GOI will be 100% reimbursed by IBERD/AID following the
reimbursement procedure presented in para 5.27.



- 80 -
f. Project Innovation Phnd (PIP)
5.23.           AID will finance 100% of the P1F costs on a grant basis.
The Project Coordinator in each province will be the accountable officer
for the management of the PIP. Disbursements under the PIP will be made
only upon certification by the AID project officer. Separate accounts
will be maintained by recipient institutions In a manner acceptable in
form and content to AID.
C. Funds Control and Management
5.24.    The Project Coordinator in each province will be designated as
the authorized GOI representative responsible for the management of
project activities financed by AID and IBRD, with the exception of the
Farming System Research component and the Human Resources Development
component-  It will be the Project Coordinator's responsibility to insure
that all planning and review procedures regqired by AID and IBRD to
establish eligibility for reimbursement are followed by all district
Project Managers and Sub-project Managers. It will also be the Project
Coordinator's responsibility to insure that proper accounting
procedures/systems are established and followed by all district Project
Managers and sub-comnponent Project Managers. To this end, each Project
Coordination Office and each district Project Management Unit will have a
full-time finance officer to insure proper disbursement and accounting of
project funds. It will also be the responsibility of the provincial
Project Coordinator to initiate requests for reimbursement to AID/IBRD.
5.25.    The AARD Team Leader of the Farming System Research component
will be the responsible officer accountable for the proper disbursement
and accounting of project funds. It will be the Team Leader' s
responsibility to insure that all planning and review requirements of
AID/IBMD required to establish eligibility for reimbursement are
followed. It will also be the responsibility of the Team Leader to
insure that proper books are maintained to account for project funds.
Finally, the Team Leader will be responsible of initiating requests for
AID/IBIRD reimbursement.
5.26.   Likewise, the Training Coordinator appointed by the GOI will be
responsible for insuring that all planning and review reouirements
necessaxy to establish eligibility for reimbursement of the Human
Resources Development component by IBRD are met. It will be the
responsibility of the Training Coordinator to insure that proper books
are maintained to account for project funds.
D. Reimbursement Procedures
5.27.    The first step in the reimbursement process is the preparation
of annual plans and budgets for each component activity. These plans and
budgets will be prepared by each participating Project Management Unit
(PMU) for each component activity for which it Is directly responsible.
This plan and budget will be reviewed and approved by the provincial



- 81 -
Project Coordinator and Guidance Team and forwarded to the SKA and USAID
for review and approval. AID will subsequently issue a Project
Implementation Letter (PIL) stating its approval of the plan and budget
on behalf of AID and IBRD. The approval PTL will identify any items that
will not be eligible for reimbursement by AID or the IDBRD. Upon
completion of each year's annual program, each PMU, in conjunction with
the provincial Project Coordination Office and the project consultant,
will carry out an assessment of each component activity and prepare an
evaluation report of the effectiveness of the previous year's
implementation, indicating areas for improvement that should be built
into the subsequent year' s annual plan and budget. Based on this
assessment and field inspection by AID and provincial government staff,
AID will approve those activities eligible for AID reimbursement.
Subsequently, the provincial Project Coordination Office will formally
submit an official reimbursement request to the MHA and the Ministry of
Finance, who will officially forward the request to AID for reimbursement.
5.28.   Upon approval and payment by AID of its portion of the
reimbursement, the official request will be forwarded to IBRD, who inturn
will make payment to the GOI for its portion. A single consolidated
reimbursement request will be sent to AID and to the IBRD.
5.29.    The same process will be followed for the Famming System
Research component and the Human Resources Development component.
E. Audit
5.30.   Assurances have been obtained from the government during project
design that the GOI will furnish AID and the IBRD with any project
related information and reports requested.  The GOI will also, maintain,
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
practices, adequate books and records relating to the project to show
without limitation the receipt and use of goods and services acquired
under the respective IBRD loan and AID loan and grant.  Such books and
records will be audited regularly, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and maintained for three years after the date of the
last disbursement by AID and I9RD. Such books and records will also be
adequate to show the nature and extent of solicitations of prospective
suppliers of goods and services acquired, the basis of award of contracts
and orders and the overall progress of the project toward completion.
Finally, the GOI will allow authorized representatives of AID and the
IBRD at all reasonable times to inspect the project, the utilization of
goods and services financed by AID and IBRD, and books, records and other
documents relating to the project.
F. Disbursement Schedule
5.31.   Table 9 in Annex 5 summarizes the projected disbursement
schedule for AID/IBRD grant and loan funds.



- 82 -
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEKNTATZON PL&IN
A. Schedule of aLrly and Key Events
6.01.   Table 23 sarzzes the schedule of early and key events
required to initiate project operations.  The more important of these
events are discussed below.
1. Polir-y rorulation
6.02.       The GOI must implement several important policy changes
before the Upland Agriculture and Cbnservation Project can begin. These
necessary changes are delineated in para 3.37.
2. Management/Planning and Management Information Systems
6.03.        Early start up and implementation of the project will
reqaire:
- identification and recruitment of management staff for
P00s and PMUs and line agency component Sub-project Managers.
Technically, this recruitment cannot be initiated prior to issuance of
the necessary policy determinations. Znterim GOI guidance will be sought
to allow recruitment to begin in July 1984.
- the design of project planning, management, budgetary/
accounting systems and management information systems to guide and
control project management at the provincial level by July 1984.
Concurrent with recruitment of key project personnel AID will finance
short-term consultants to assist in completion of this activity.
- work-shops on new planning/management systems. Output:
the IFY p985/86 annual plan and budget. lnitiation/completion:
Septembe:r-October 1984.
- recruiting technical line agency personnel and arranging
for technical training available through existing institutions and
on-site visits to Jogyakarta and Citanduy. Initiation/completion:
October/December 1984.
- a contract with local institutions for base line
socio-economic and technical surveys to identify target expansion areas
for inclusion in IFY 85/86 program in four districts. Intiation/
completion: June/October 1984.
- AARD appointment of the Project Leader for Farming
Systems Research and design of the Year 0 (IFY 1984/85) program,
Including identification of headquarters and field research sites and
general agriculture and economic surveys of project area.



- 83 -
- irrigated nursery development at 10 sites. Initiation:
September 1984.
-  seed production operations at selected sites.
Initiation: September 1984.
3. Technical Assistance
6.04.        The major actions required to initiate the project related
technical assistance are outline below:
- draft Terms of Reference/Requests for Proposals for two
TA contracts (i.e. provincial level tech-ical assistance and national
level PASA with USDA/SCS). Initiation/Completion: prior to September
1984.
- recruit a consultant associated with international
agriculture research network to develop with AARD policy framework and
institutional arrangements/protocol to govern AARD collaborative research
arrangement with consortium of international research institutes.
Initiation/completion: July/August 1984.
- advertise, select and negotiate TA contract for
provincial level TA contract. Initiation/comletion: June/December 1984.
- negotiate USDA PASA. Initiation/completion: August 1984.
- recrvit short-term consultants to assist in drafting
project policy guidance and designing project planning, management,
budgetaxy and monitoring system. Initiation/completion: June-October
1984.
4. Procurement
6.05.        All international procurement and equipment procurement will
be fiii3pced and handled by AID. Initial procurement actions include:
- a waiver (to be included in the Project Authorization)
for non-competitive contracting with USDA/SCS and with the International
Agriculture Research Consortium;
- a waiver to procure locally assembled vehicles and
motorcycles (to be included in Project Authorization).
3. Planning, Management, Monitoring and Reimbursement Process
6.06.    Effective management of the project will require a clearly
articulated planning, management and monitoring cycle/process that is
fully understood and followed by all project authorities from the center
down to the participating rural extension centers.



- 84 -
Table 23
Schedule of Early and Xey Events
Item                           Primary         Taxget
Responsibility      Date
1. USAID approval of Project Paper                Director          Jun. 84
2. GOI and USAID sign Project Agreements                            Jun. 84
3. Task Force formed to organize project          Ex. Sec.          Jun. 84
4.  IBRD approval of Appraisal Report             President         Aug. 84
5. Start up consultants arrive                    USAID            Jul. 84
6.  Management orientative workshop               Task Porce       Aug. 84
7.  Preliminary work begins for                   POD              Aug. 84
Sustained Uplands Famning System
component, e.g., choosing nursery
sites, locating seeds and seedlings
S. Planning/scheduling workshop                   PC0              Sep. 84
9. MIS workshop                                   POD              Sep. 84
10. Conditions Precedent for initial              PCD              Sep. 84
disbursement met
13. RFTP for consulting contract issued           USAID            Oct. 84
12. GOIa/BRD loan agreement signed                GOI/laRD         Oct. 84
13. Plans and budgets for Year 1                  PCD              Dec. 84
(IFY 85/85)
14. Consultants for Ex Sec arrive                 USLID            Oct. 84
15. Senior scientist from IARC arrives            AARD             Nov. 84
16. Consultant Chief of Party and                 USAID            Feb. 85
core group arrive
17. Demonstration f am begin physical             PMU              Jun. 85
improvement
18. Expansion areas begin physical                PMU              Jun. 86
improvement
19. Decision re expansion of project              USAID            Nov. 86
to additional district



- 85 -
6.07.    The basic outline of this planningAnanagement cycle and process
is presented in Table 24. Each cycle, while geared to the GOI fiscal
year and agriculture planting schedule, will require approximately 13
months to implement. Thus, each cycle overlaps to a certain extent with
the preceding planning and management cycle.
6.08.    Three important aspects of this cycle require specific mention,
because they are not normally found in existing agriculture and
conservation planning and management systems. First, the planning/
management process will incorporate specific activities to identify
expansion areas for treatment under the project, based both on technical
data and on the willingness/enthusiasm of upland communities to
participate in the project. Each year agro-economic profiles of
potential expansion areas will be carried out followed by a series of
meetings between project authorities and the communities farming the
lands identified for potential inclusion in the project. Based on both
the technical data and the response of the target communities, project
authorities will select a sub-set of the identified levels for inclusion
in the project.
6.09.    Second, a mandatory annual field assessment will be carried oat
in March for each component activity under the project. The results of
this assessment will be published and subsequently used to improve
planning and execution of each component activity in subsequent cycles.
The assessment will be muanaged by each Project Coordination Office and
will include the staff from each participating PMU and technical line
agencies and the project consultants. This annual assessment will serve
as one of the principal tools to implement the learning-by-doing
philosophy of the project. The completion and publication of this annual
assessment will be an essentia' pre-condition to estabish eligibility for
reimbursement by AID and IBRD.
6.10.    Third, following the completion of the annual assessment report,
representatives from the national Executive Secretariat, the Project
Coordinator Office and AID/IBID will conduct a field inspection to
dete-ine which activities are eligible for reimbursement in April of
each year. Each PCD will submit its formal reimbursement request through
official channels in May of each year. Given this annual in-house
evaluation and subsequent monitoring process by GOI/AID/IBRD, the
disbursement of loan funds from AID and IBRD will proceed in a systematic
and regular fashion.
6.11.    Finally, a schedule will be established for the subaission of
plans and for approval by the GOI and AID for purposes of establishing
eligibility for reimbursement. These dates will be strictly followed to
insure that resources are available to P!Us well in advance of the
beginning of the rainy season.



I  lii                                     At~~~~14  nI"Ma IMsW  soil ilas'O
I       i ~~~~I-ss"evsmoe eev!           sm.I    st a"
j   I      I     I     I   '~~~~~~~~~~~a Il*mMo                  IIl sl
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"r J                                                                      see  1 f 
.11            ~              SS~ *t.U o*    b *   *""Me   in ma
-I--  51-@|@                         I         I                         am Ill "5 W   & 4    is
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o    D rew go .0    -Iot-fe
"Ito toWI, .                   13 a
_1   F1F1V    a                                                        PS' o _'a
I, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t,  II 'm..,ia    Ise -a
1~~~~ J F~~~~ L I E~~~~~   ; ; . I U~~~~~~~~ r a~~~~ i : : o , a                             ,~~~~~~~~~~  S'~~~s -5   w   e " o t   I " w U q )a lig m  g am3 I n
See                                                                       0-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
01.1e   .!:   Cy__                   



- 87 -
6.12.   The planning and management cycle/process presented on Table 25
is only a first approximation and will be refined in conjunction with
participating local goversment and line agencies early in Year 0 (IFY
1984/85) of project implementation. All project personnel will be given
training to insure their full understanding of and ability to execute
each activity comprising the annual planning and management cycle.
VII. MONITORING AND EVALWATION PLAN
A. Introduction
7.01.   The tUAC Project is based on a methodology of learning-by-
doing. Central to this methodology is the ability to monitor the
on-going inplementation of the project to determine If project activities
were implemented as planned and if the outputs specified in the plan were
actually realized. The establishment of a Management Information System
(MIS) the province and district levels capable of routinely generating
data on output performance is, therefore, a central concern of the
project. This information will serve as an important data source for
annual planning of component activities. In addition to the on-going
assessment and annual planning activities, the project will also carry
out several external evaluations during the project.
B. Management Information System (MIS)
7.02.   The primaxy purpose of the MIS is to provide project management
with information relevant to project performance. Basic MIS activities
can be divided into two basic types:
(a) Technical and Aqro-economic profiles that will be carried
out in target expansion areas to describe the pre-project physical,
environmental, social, institutional and agro-economic situation.
(b) Periodic implementation performance data to ascertain
project status with respect to component project performance such as
hectares of expansion completed, distribution of inputs (seed,
fertilizer, trees, grass) and credit extended, etc. Working Paper 2
provides an illustrative outline of the content of these inventories.
7.03.    This information will provide project managers with information
on 'what is happening'.  Project managers must then address the
qaestions, "Why is it happening?" and 'how can it be improved?' To
answer these questions, the project staff at both the provincial and
district levels and the technical assistance contractor will carry out an
annual project assessment that examines the reasons for success or
failure of each project component and recommends modifications to be
introduced in the subsequent year's component plans. The completion of
this annual assessmnt will be a requirement to establish eligibility for
AID/mBRD reimbursement of the succeeding year's program.



- 88 -
7.04.    1he internal annual asseasment and planning process will
undoubtedly uncover many issues directly related to component design and
performance that require additional data and analysis before action
recomendations can be formulated. Funds will be available to the
project tc ccntract for special studies through appropriate local
institutions or consultants. As a general rule, these studies will be
short-term, not exceeding three months, so their findings can be fed back
into the planning and implementation process without undue delay.
C. Ecternal Evaluations
7.05.    Several external evaluations, independent of project
authorities, will be carried out during the life of the project. These
evaluations will be re-appraisals of project concepts, design, allocation
of funds, staffing patterns and component activities in light of
perfozmance. The first external evaluation will be carried out during
the third year of project activity (IFY 1986/87). Following this
evaluation, a determination will be made about if and when the additional
four or more districts will be brought into the program. The second
mid-term review will be during the fifth or sixth year of project
activity (i.e. IFY 1988/89 or 1989/90) and will focus on whether a Phase
II program should be initiated. A final project evaluation will be
carried out during the last year of the project and will constitute a
comprehensive assessment of the Phase I effort.
D. Organization
7.06.   Primary responsibility for the design and implementation of the
basic MIS and the special studies will reside with the provincial level
Project Coordination Offices. The project will provide the PCDs with the
necessary technical assistance, training and, as appropriate, funds and
e qipment.
7.07.    The provincial PCD will work closely with the district Project
Management Units in the design and implementation of the MIS systems. It
is expected that both the provincial and district PMUs will be staffed by
one individual with the appropriate background. Additional training of
these individuals will also be available as part of the project. Neither
the provincial P(.U nor the district PMU will have the manpower or the
capacity to undertake all of the activities associated with the
development and management of the MIS systems. Thus, an important
component of strengthening the capacity of these groups will be in the
area of simple research management. Close ties with the regional
universities in these activities will be encouraged as will use of
indigenous consulting firms.
7.08.   EIcternal evaluations will be primarily the responsibility of
senior project management, the USAID project officer and his
counterparts. In-country institutions will also be involved in the
assessments wherever possible.



- 89 -
VIII. SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT ANALYSES
A. Tebcnlcal Analysis
8.01.   The full toxt of the technical analysis is prosented in Annex
I.A. This section concludes that the principle shor'-run constraint on
utilization of upland resources is the lack of an effectlvo delivery
system for improved germ-plasm for crops, grasses and trees. Hence,
establishing an effective delivery system for gez-plauu and
diseminating effective soil and water conservation techniques to upland
areas are two major objectives of the project.
8.02.    In accord with these objectives, a considerable amount of
research and learning-by-doing is necessary to develop improved
germ-plasm, to test alternative delivery systems and to devise the
appropriate soil and water conservation measures for specific conditions
of soils, slopes and farm management systems.
8.03.    Development of the livestock sector in uplands areas also
requires research and testing. While there is a large potential for
livestock, better means of growlng and storing fodder supplies for the
dry season must be developed and demonstrated before this potential can
be realized.
8.04.   Lastly, upland areas have substantial potential for cash crops
such as vogetables, fruit and spices, but processing/marketing and
technological constraints must be overcome. In the case of troo
products, means have to be devised to assure a reasonable income to
farners while the trees are maturing.
8.05.    In sun, while there is a sufficient technical basis to proceed
with the project, a major intent of the project is to learn as the
project proceeds.
D. Economic Analysis
8.06.   The details of the economic analysis are provided in Annex 1.B.
The analysis concludes that because of the large gap between present
yields of major crops in upland areas and technically and economically
feasLble yields the economic returns to the project are hLghly favorable.
B.07.    The direct net benefits from the 23,000 ha of land to be
included in the project are sufficient to create an internal rate of
return (IRR) for the project as a whole of 12%. However, considerLng the
followlng indirect benefits, the economic feasibility of the project'is
consLderably hlgher.
8.0 .   Flrst, the benefits of infrastructure Lnvestments in research,
human capLtal development and roads will splll over to a much greater
area than the 23,000 ha directly affected by the project and used as a
basis for the econouic evaluation.



- 90 -
8.09.    Second, the analysis dooe not include the value of external
bene lts to downstream users through reduced sedimentation and flooding.
Based on the analysis of a similar watershed, these external benefits
could amount to more than onerthird of the total costs of the project.
8.10.    GLven the conservative nature of the assumptions regarding
direct project benefits and costs, the high potential value of the
indirect benefits and asmmuing reasonable management, the true MRR of the
project is likely to be above 15%, as shown in Annex 1.B.
C. Social Soundness Analysis
8.11.   The complete text of the social soundness analysis can be found
in Annex 1.C.  The analysis concludes that the proposed Upland
Agriculture and Conservation Project is compatible with the
socio-cultural environment of the two areas and that the activity will
boeneft a wide array of groups but will assist most directly the rural
households who own and operate farms inciuded within the approximately
23,000 hectares of the tazget area.
8.12.        The populations of the upland areas of the two watersheds
share many of the same socio-econcmic characteristics. Although a
hierarcky exists within the village conmuLities, the degree of difference
in the living standards of the groups is not very great. Land-ownership
is the most important factor in detertining wealth and status in the
uplands. Absolute lAndleasness is relatively low in upland areas but a
significant though undetezrmned portion of the population do not own
enough land to provide for their livelihood throughout the year.
8.13.        Dospite a high degree of similarity among upland
comanltie , perhaps the most remarkable feature of socio_-conaomic
conditions in theme areas is the diversity. Several factors contribute
to this diversity, the most obvious being variation in the agro climatic
zones. Other factors contributing to this diversity include: the
availability of of f-fazz eployment opportunities, migration patterns,
access to markets, proximity to urban centers and the presence of
governmant programs promoting rural developent. 7his degree of
diversity mandates a project implementation strategy that takes into
account local conditions and involves communities in the identification
and testing of improved farming systms technologies. The project has
been designed to encourage the dLrect participation of local coamunities
in the projectls planning and decision-making processes.
4. Administrative Analysis
8.14.        The complete text of the administrative analysiL can be
found ln Annex l.D. he analysis concludes that the organLzational
strategy proposed as part of the Upland Agriculture and Conservation
Project reflects past experience of UsXD, the IBRD and the GOI, with
similar interventions and appropriately focuses on sub-national levels of
government as the key plannlng and executing agencies.



- 91 -
8.15.        he existing stzucture of governnt, as it relates to
upland agriculture and conservation# is characterized by a high degree of
ctrazation and corresponding standardization.  In addition,
government services provided to upland communities are highly fragmented,
with responsibilities unclearly divided among the Ministry of Fbrestry
and the Ministry of Agriculture and local government. The rigidity
imposed by the existing centralized structure and the confusion resulting
from the fragmentation of government services make it extremely difficult
to design and implement programs that are tailored 'o the diversity of
agro climatic and socio-economic conditions comon to upland areas not
only in these two watersheds but also throughout Java and Indonesia.
8.16.   The gmagement structure and planning  and management systems to
be utilized under this project are in many respects new and untested
innovations. Project gamaaement fully expects that as additional
=perience is acquired,  aodifications in both orgaizational structure
andprocess will be required to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of project implementation. The development of this organtional
structure is an explicit purpose of the project. At the same time, the
proposed operational framework represents lessons learned from past
experiences f ocusing on upland agriculture and conservation activities
and attempts to bluid upon the strengths of these efforts while
addressing well-docmented weaknesses.
S. Environmental Analysis
8.17    The initial environental examination, suixitted as part of the
Project Identification Document, concludes that although the project
should have major positive environmental impact, an environmental
assessment is needed for the rural roads componeSt. Any procurement and
use of pesticides under the project will also be subject to a formal
environmental assesemnt, in acccordance with CFR Section 216
Environmental Impact Assessment Procedures.  Plans for the
implementation of each of these are saarized below.
1. Conservation Roads
8.18.       Most of the land in the project area is densely settled and
has had intense human usage for at least severl decades. None of the
roads to be constructed under the project are expected to pass through
areas of concern for nat-re conservation puxposes.
8.19.       Therefore, the main anticipated negative environmental
impact is increased soil erosion, caused either directly by construction
of the roadways or indirecty from changes in land use adjacent to
roadwys. oTe  potential impacts of rural roads development in the
project region have been considered seriously during final design of the
project. Erosion control efforts are believed to be identical with sound
engineering practices. Project design criteria for planning,
construction and Maintainance of the roads to be constructed are as
rigorous or more rigorous than for any rural roads previously constructed
on Java (see Annex 1-1).



- 92 -
8.20.       The project component itself has been redesignated as the
Cbnservation Access Roads component. This reflects both the ero6ion
control emphasis assigned to cqnstruction and maintainance of the
roadways, as weill as the expectation that the roads will have indirect
positive environmental effects. These indirect effects will arise from
izproved access to markets, which in believed likely to stimulate
soil-conserving agricultural investments, and from the improved flow of
conservation info-mation and training into presently isolated upland
villages. Easier transportation and communication access may, of course,
also have countervailing negative soil erosion or other environmental
impacts.
8.21.        Since the overall puxpose of the project is to develop
Indonesia' 8 capacity to learn from experience and to institutionalize
improved pilot efforts in upland development and coservation, we intend
that the Environmental Assessment will be conducted as an extended,
iterative process through Phase One of the project. A joint GOI-UsAID
Upland Conservation Roads Environmental Review Committee will be
established, comprised of representatives of the State Ministry of
Population and Environsent, Public Work- (from Padat Kazya), Interior
(from the Population and Environmental Bureau from the provincial Bappeda
Offices) and US&ID (the Project Officer and the Mission Environmental
Officer) . This committee will meet at least once during Year 0 of the
project.  They will be responsible for producing: (1) the Environmental
Assessment of the Conservation Roads component of the UAC Project, and
(2) a Manual on Erosion Cbntrol for Rural Roads in the UAC Project Area.
The Committee could authorize field studies, monitoring work, special
training courses, or other activities as they feel appropriate. Their
Xrports, the Environmental Assessment and the manual on erosion control
for rural roads, should be completed prior to the mid-project review In
Year 2. This report should address the question of general environmental
impact associated with future rural roads development in the uplands of
East and Central Java.
2. Pesticides
8.22.       The GOX is committed to integrated pest management (IPt),
which vill be the basis of crop protection work under this project. All
pesticides used or procured under the project, even on expeximental test
plots, will be subject to the regulatory procedures both of the GOI and
of the U9G. During Year 0 of the project, AARD will work with the USAID
project officer to develop a preliminary upland crop protection research
and management plan. The Mission anticipates drawing upon the AIDJw Crop
Protection Project to provide technical support to review this
preliminary plan, and to work out any additional technical support that
may be needed. Ths review will constitute the foral Environmental
Assessment for pesticides use under the project.  It must be completed
prior to any procurement or usage.



A N N E X    I
EROJECT ANALYSES



# 4066A:joy: 7/5/84
1. PROJECT ANALYSES
A. Technical Analysis
- 1. Introduction
The major technical issues in the UACP are soil and water
conservation, seed and plant material availability, and livestock and
fodder supplies. The following discussion outlines: 1) the major
technical features and issues in each of these subject areas in terms of
criteria for project design and 2) important areas for research and
monitoring in the project.
a. Soil and Water Conservation (SIC)
SWC programs create essentially three kinds of benefits:
- Increased production of agricultural, forest and grass products.
- Reduced external costs of downstream sedimentation and flooding.
- Preservation of options for an uncertain future.
The second and third types of benefits are discussed in the
economics section. The focus here will be on the physical basis of these
effects, especially as they relate to agriculture and silvipasture
systems.
Unfortunately, there is almost no scientifically reliable
information concerning SIC in Indonesia (or in other tropical areas)
(Hudson, 1983; Hamer, 1980). Therefore this analysis will have to be
based on various estimation techniques, fitted where possible, to what
little information is available.
The benefits of SIC programs to agricultural production (including
forestry, grass, etc.) are of three kinds:
- Preventing loss of nutrients and other valuable
characteristics of the soil.
- Preventing loss of soil-moisture holding capacity.
- EnAhlIng better management practices through the above
two factors and through such items as cultivating flat
areas on bench terraces rather than steep slopes.
All of these benefits depend, directly or indirectly, on the
relationship between three basic parameters: 11) the net rate of erosion
before and after the SWC project, (2) the quality and depth of the soil,
and (3) agro-dlimatic conditions, which in turn affect (1) and (2).



-2-
The net rate of erosion is the rate of loss of soil minus the
natural rate of soil formation. In temperate climates, on
non-agricultural land, the natural rate of soil formation is about 0.8
mWyr, or 9.6 t/ha/yr (1 mm - 12 t/ha). However, in the tropics the rate
of soil formation is about three times more: 2.4 mm/yr or 28.8 t/ha/yr
(Hamer, 1982, p.5). It may also be higher in agricultural land because
of greater mechanical and chemical activity, but this is not proven.
The critical depth of soil is the minimum depth at which crop
yields are significantly reduced. This is mainly a function of the
soil-moisture holding capacity of the soil in relation to agro-climatic
conditions--precipitation, evapotranspiration of plants and the root
depth of plants. Adventitious roots, which provide most of the nutrient
uptake, occupy only the upper 15 cm or so of the soil. Tap roots, which
provide most of the water uptake, vary by crops but can extend as far
down as 2 meters under moisture stress conditions. Thus moisture stored
in the C horizon can also be used by crops. It is not known what the
critical soil depth is under the climatic conditions of Java, or what the
quantitative effect on yield is as the critical level is surpassed.
Assu=ing some (presently unknown) amount of fertilizer application
to partly compensate for loss of soil nutrients and favorable agro-
climatic conditions, approximately 50-75 mm soil depth may be taken as
the point where yields begin to be significantly reduced due to erosion.
2. Estimating the Rate of Erosion
This analysis follows Hamer's excellent discussion of the
Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE) under Indonesian conditions. As he
notes, the USLE has only been verified for temperate climates and
cropping systems, medium textured soils and slope gradients of 3% to 18%
(pp. 3-4).
The USLE may be written: (1) E - f (C, S; T, L)* where
E -  Average Annual Erosion (tlha/yr)
C = Climatic Factor: see the estimation from precipitation data in
Hamer (p.8)
S -   Soil factor: a classification based on soil texture, organic
matter, structure and, especially, permeability
T -   Topography factor: slope gradient, in percent, slope length,
and land form
L -   Land ulitization factor: plant cover in relation to bare soil
*   It should be noted that the USLE usually contains a management factor
(M) for conservation practises - like terracing, or grass striping.
However, because X - f CT, L), this term is redundant in the USLE.
In a regression analysis this would cause fornidable problems of
multi-coliniarity since M and CT, L) are highly correlated. For
regression analysis of E in relation to particular states of M, the
function could be written E - f tC, S, M), however, E - f (C,S, T, L)
is more precise for analytical pu2poses.



-3-
The first two factors, C and S, are parameters that are not
changeable. The last two factors, T and L, are the instrument variables
that can be changed to control erosion. T involves mechanical control
through changes in the slope and form of the soil surface. L involves
biological control through changes in plant cover.
Addressing biological control first, various values for L are
shown in Table 1 (Namer, 1980, p.20). Note that a value of 1 for bare
land is the worst condition for L. These L values must be interpeted
under the condition that all other factors in the USLE are constant.
However the values may change, even in ranking, for different absolute
values of the other factors, especially T.
Second, the primary function of mechanical control (T) is to
decrease the slope of the land surface to lower the quantity and velocity
of water run-off and, hence, soil erosion. Estimates for T are provided
in Table 2 (Hamer 1982, pp. 1-3). As shown in the right column of Table
2, the rate of erosion is roughly proportional to the slope, over slope
ranges greater than 15%. Over undulating terrain, slope degree and
length should be estimated as a weighted average of various segments of
the land surface.
Table 3 (Hamer, 1980, p.21) shows values of different combinations
of L and T or management (M) factors by different quality standards (M
1 represents the worst value). It is interesting to note that the
highest quality bench terraces have the same M value (0.4J as the best
grass strips. Both are 2.5 times more effective than permanent ground
cover with estate crops.
Neither the USLE nor empirical research in Indonesia has given
sufficiently reliable estimates of the actual magnitudes of erosion to be
used in planning. An example of this problem is cited in Hamer (1980,
p.39) where the rate of erosion in the upper Solo Basin was estimated as
1800-4800 t/ha by one group, and 50 t/ha by another group.
3. SWC Treatments
There are many alternative means of controling soil erosion
ranging from tree and grass plantations, tbrough grass striping and
contour bunding, to bench terraces. The appropriate treatment depends on
both physical and economic factors.
Variation in soil types is a major physical constraint in these
two river basin. Soil types found in the project districts include:
Regosols/Lithosols, Grumusols, Latosols, Podsols and Mediterranean soils
derived from limestone parent materials. Other types of soils such as
Andosols are mainly found in higher elevations and are associated with
recent volcanic activities in locations such as Malang, northern Blitar
and parts of Boyolali.



-4-
Table 1
Land Utilization Factors Based on SRI Research Data
C Code I              Cropping/Land Utilization Detail           | Rating
1     1n                                                         1I-
|      | Bare Cultivated Soil                                      I 1.0
I Sl   | Irrigated Sawab                                         1  0.01   |
I Sr   J Rainfed Sawah                                           1  0.05   |
I Dc     U Upland crops (Tegalan) crop not specified             I  0.7
B Bd I Brachiaria sp. for scock feed - Establishnent             |  0.5
- Subsequent years        I  0.02   I
|  Ca   Cassava                                                  I  0.8    1
I  a    maize                                                    1  0.7    1
be   beans                                                       |  0.6    |
I  pI  potato                                                       0.4
I  g  I groundnuts                                               I  0.2
I  r  | rice                                                     10.5 
|  Sr | Sugarcane                                                |  0.2
I  ba | banana (rarely as monoculture)                           |  0.6    1
1  8W I  serehwangi' (Cymobopogon sp)-grass for oil extr.           0.4    |
I  ce I coffee, with ground cover                                |  0.2    |
I  y  | talas Cyam)                                              1  0.85
|  Ss | Spices (chile, ginger)                                   |  0.9    I
I  ng I Mixed Garden, multistory, variable ground cover          I         I
I  h          high density                                       |  0.1
I     I       cassava/soybean                                    1  0.2    1
I  a  I       medium density                                     I  0.3
1  1  |       low density (cahanus sp/peanuts)                   I  0.5    1
I Us   I Shifting cultivation                                    1  0.4 
I        E | Xstate production (poor ground cover)               |         |
|  r  I       rubber                                             1  0.8
I  t          tea                                                1  0.5    I
I  o          oil palm                                           1  0.5    1
I  ci     Coconut                                            I  0.8
| F    I Natural Fbrest, (primary and well regenerated)
high litter                                           0 0.001
I             3 low litter                               *          0.005
I P    | Production Forest clear felling                         I  0.5
selective logging                                 I  0.2
| F    | Fish Ponds                                              |  0.01
I S    | Shrub/grassland                                         I  0.3    1
| N    I Non-vegetabled badlands                                 |  0.91
1.I   I             _, __I                                                 I



-5-
Table 2
7bpoqraphic factors (T)
|   Slope      |  Assumed   |   Mean    |  Range             T/    I
I  gradient    I   slope           T      |   in T      | Measure  |
I class (%) m     length (m)    rating   I  rating    I  slope   I
0 - 5   0,5 I    45       I   0.35    I 0.00 - 0.75 I   0.14
6 - 15   9,5 s    35      I   1.60    1 0.76 - 2.40 I   0.17
16 - 35 25,5 1    25       I   4.60    I 2.41 - 6.80 I   0.18
36 - 50 43   I    20       1   7.90    1 6.81 - 8.99       0.18
o50             20      I   9.00    1       8.99   I   0.18
Table 3
Code I              Conservation Practices (M)               | Rating M -  I
I     I Bench terraces                                         I            I
Th   |        - high standard design/construction            |   0.04 *  I
Tsm          - - medium standard desigr/construction        |   0.15
I Ti  |         - low standard design/construction            |   0.35      1
Tg   I Traditional terraces                                  I   0.40 *
T Tc   I Colluvial terraces on grass strips or bamboo              0.50
Permanent grass strips e.g. Bahlia grass:
.  I     - high standard design and establishment       I   0.04 *
I      I        - low standard design and establishment        |   0.40
Et     i Hi 3side trenches (silt pits)                       1   0.3
L    | Croatalaria sp. (legume) in rotation                  1   0.60 *  |
Cl   I Contour cropping, slope gradient 0 - 8%                    0.5
2                                      9 - 20%                   0.75
3   I                                      20 O                 0.9
I M6   | Surface Mulch retention (litter or straw 6t/ha/yr)    |   0.3  *
13   1                           (litter ox straw 3t/ha/yr)    I   0.5
1 1                             (litter or straw lt/ha/yr)    I   0.8
| GC   | Permanent ground cover with estate crops             I             I
I h   I         - high density                                I   0.1       1
I i   |         - medium density                              I   0.5
I R    I Early reafforestation with cover crop                I   0.3
| n.s. I Not specified                                        I   1.0       I
I n.a. I Not applicable                                       1   1.0       |
* based on Soil Research Institute (Bogor) data



-6-
Terracing in sandy-loam or loam textured soils is more difficult
than on more stable clay textured soils. For soils other than clay,
close planting of legume shrub hedges such as leucaena or gliricidia
along the edge of the terraces with grasses to strengthen the terrace
risers is highly recommended. The experiences of district Sikka on
Flores Island or the SALT Project in Davao, Mindanao, are prime
examples. Planting legumes on the risers both strengthens the riser and
provides green manure. In both these areas, the leucaena was planted in
two rows at 50 cm apart and 5 to 6 cm along the rows.  The foliage from
the leucaena will protrude about 30 to 50 cm on each side of the rows,
thus occupying 1.10 to 1.50 m of land per terrace. In the Panawangan
Pilot Watershed, where the average terrace width is less than 1.50 i, the
above system is clearly impractical.
Vertical risers in clay soils with grass protection on the lips
and upper 1/3 of the terrace riser have proven to be quite stable in many
demonstration farms at Citanduy Watershed. However, to obtain a full
grass/legume cover of the terrace risers it is recommended that risers be
built on a 1/2 slope (1 horizontal to 2 vertical). There is clearly a
trade-off between crop production and increased livestock carrying
capacity, in the form of greater grass/legume production, between these
two styles of terracing.  The 1/2 slope risers are recomended on slopes
at 40%.
For general purposes the privately owned lands can be classified
in four broad categories:
1. Land under permanent vegetation, including those under
alang-alang (Imperata cylindrica).
2. Land where soil degradation has reached such a level that
agriculture production is no longer practical under local
conditions.
3. Land where productive soil depth is getting so thin that, if
soil erosion is not reduced to a minimum, it will fall into
category 2 within a few years.
4. Land where the soil depth is such that it will take many
years under the present soil management before soil
production is reduced significantly.
The priority target for land stabilization should be land category
3 with attempts to establish permanent vegetation on land category 2 by
using legumes and trees such as cashew capable of producing under poor
soil conditions. Land category 4, although not in danger itself, is also
a source of sedimentation.
Silvipasture should be encouraged on shallow soils where terracing
is not practical or, because of steepness of the land, terraces are not
stable or are too costly for what can be produced on them. Owners of
land that is presently under IMperate cylindrica or other type of weeds
and trees, who want to take advantage of the project to obtain better
grass/legumes and trees, should be allowed to do so providing that they
participate and work with the other farmers in the group.



-7-
The project may give the farmers fertilizers for grass but the
majority of the farmers will not use it for that purpose and almost no
farmers will buy fertilizer for grass except on special occasions or
where dairy is important and a market exists for grasses. This implies
that outside such areas, large grass plantations are not feasible, since
fertilizer is required. Thus grass production will occur only on terrace
risers, utilizing some of the fertilizer provided for crops. Since
farmers build very steep risers on their terraces to avoid reduction of
agricultural land, the area producing grass will be low (say less than
10% of the agricultural area). Since 1977 Project Citanduy has been
recommending that farmers replace top soil on the surface of their newly
built terraces. Two techniques were recommended: 1) stockpiling top soil
and 2) building the bottom terrace first, then throwing the top soil from
above onto the already built terrace.
Farmers as a rule have not followed these recommendations nor is
there data to prove that the practice of replacing the top soil on the
newly built terraces actually increases production sufficiently to make
it worthwhile. This issue should be closely studied in the research
component to dete-rmine under which conditions it should or should not be
recomzended. Largely to counteract this yield-reducing effect, and to
encourage establishment of grasses, the project will supply subsidized
fertilizers for the first two years after terraces have been installed.
4. Estimating the Labor Requirements of Bench Terracing
The design of bench (and other) terraces has been specified by
Sheng (FAO 1981). Sheng has calculated the volume of earth required to
be cut, transported and compacted in bench terracing, in relation to the
slope of the land and width of the terrace bench, as shown in Figures 1
and 2.
Figure  1
REVERSE SLOPES TERRACE
\    _                      .ORIG1NAL  LAND  2URFACE
_ TOE  CRPAIN



-8-
Row 1 at the bottom of Figure. 2 shows the i3 of earth per ha of
land area under bench terracing.  The 2.5 m minimum bench width figures
will be used here.
Row 2 shows the amount of earth per ha of bench surface or
agricultural land, not of land used in the risers. The percentage
figures under the curves of Figure 1 show the percentage of total land
area in benches. Row 2 is obtainsd by dividing these figures into Row 1.
Lastly, Row 3 shows the mandays requlired per ha of bench surface
created. Those figures are based on the assumption that one man can
completely process 1 m3 of earth per day (about 3.6 tons). Sheng
estimates 3.8-4.0 m3 per day. Sheng's assumption may be valid in very
favorable conditions where the soil is loose and moist. However, most of
the terracing in the uplands project will be done in the dry season, whon
the hard, dry condition of the soil will adversely affect production and
increase compaction costs. Data from the Citanduy Project indicates that
only 0.9 to 1.4 =3 of earth is moved per day in construction of bench
terraces. hus Row 3 may under-estimate labor requirements by a factor
of 2-3.
It is assumed that farmers will contribute their labor free of
cost in exchange for the Rp.300,000Aha subsidy. The shadow price of
labor is assumed to be Rp-500/day, while the market prices is about
Rp.l,0001,500 per day. If farmers have no alternative opportunities for
their labor, the shadow prices should be used. If they have
self-euployment opportunities, with a value greater than the shadow
price, that figure should be used. If they must be employed for the
work, ]Rp.l,000-l,S00 per day should be used. Thus at the minimum slope
of 17.6%, the labor cost in shadow prices is Rp.80,000 per ha of bench
surface. These figures do not include the cost of grassed waterways. In
terms of market wages, the costs would be 2-3 times these amounts.
(These cost figures should be adjusted down in terms of land area
treated, accozding to the percentage of total area in bench shown in
Figure 2).
If farers are to be paid Rp.300, 000 per ha of bench area, then
those with the lowest slope will rxeceive about the market wage for their
labor, while those with the highest slope will receive only half this
amount, or the shadow price of their labor. This inequity could be
evened out by the group for= of bench terracing-where all farmers work
on all the slopes in their area and share the subsidy according to their
work.
The amount of subsidy should be adjusted to the weighted average
slope of the area to be worked by each group. A problem with this
policy, however, is that since the subsidy is paid in seeds and
fertilizer those working lower slopes would receive less imput per unit
of bench land. Clearly, policy decisions on the management of the
subsidy are required here.



-9-
Figure 2
Volumes of Soil to be Cut and Filled per Hectare
for Bench Terraces
Machine Built (Riser slope 1:1) /                      8.2
8.0-          Hand Made (Riser slope 8.75:1)
FPb 7  a of Area in Benches                I
7.5-
7.0 -                                                                .7.0
b.0~
'0~~~~~~~~
0
m  5.5-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -~5*2  >
0                              --
4 .0-                        /                                         3 9
/                0.             1~~~~~~-3.6
4.5                                //                                      .
ze                     3  .4I
4.0                /-  
'/         7 
/,   ,4    74
/  /      /4   -      ,    ,27
I. ~/ha area      500 60O 7Oio q0O qao00  1100 /toaoo d13J00 14-00 J iO a )&oo  /t0 Ioo iAO0 GOQO
3/ha bench       51o 70 Too          l     jIG /W      I, q4   v.qo9             va
ma niidaysIha bench   It?0 o  R&       34a. 317           4'19     11              749



- 10 -
5. Existing Crop Situation and Pbtential
Crop production is generally poor in the uplands. The key to
improving yields in better seed stock. The following section outlines
the seed situation for the four principal crops.
a. Maize is one of the most popular and by far the most widely
cultivated of the several traditional home-grown food crops produced by
the upland smallholder. The production of local, low producing, short
maturity white varieties are currently preforred. Yields from non-
intercropped plots are estimated to range from 600-1000 kg per hectare.
Test results of currently available improved (Arjuna, Geja Kertas,
Barapan, etc.) and hybrid (Cl) yellow kernal varieties In the project
area have convinced the Department of Agriculture to intensify the
production of hybrid seeds and to promote the cultivation of these higher
yielding improved maize varieties. Results from numerous test plot
trials with hybrid seeds and relatively low fertilizer application have
produced yields as high as 10.5 t/ha, averaging 5.7 t/ha. In Blitar,
East Java, demonstration yields of dry grain were 10.2 t/ha. Compared to
the improved Arjuna variety, the hybrid seed required an additional
Rp.15,000/ha but it increased returns by an average of Rp.332,000/ha.
Promotion efforts have met with success in most lowland suzplus
production areas and will have to be intensified in the upland areas in
correspondence with the maize seed supply activity envisioned by the
project.
(b) Peanuts are widely grown and traditionally intercropped in
several of the upland areas. They are a good source of cash income when
grown with improved practices and offer higher returns than other
palawija crops.
High yielding quality peanut seed, although unavailable in most
areas of Indonesia, offers the potential to dramatically increase yields,
which currently are approximately 700 kg/ha in Central Java. The
Department of Agriculture has recently demonstrated that two currently
promoted varieties (Anoa and Rusa) can more than double average yields
(to 1300-1500 kg/ha).
Farmers generally purchase low quality seed that has a low rate of
germination and produces low yields. The seed, due to its 1imited
seasonal compatibility, is purchased during periods of high prices and
scarcity. Normally, the farmer will contract his harvest and sale
through the "tebasan" system. Prior to threshing, the unshelled nuts are
sold to a private trader and the plant is sold as an inexpensive
livestock forage. The traders then dxy, shell, manually grade and
package the nuts for wholesale marketing. Usually this manual grading
will separate a portion of the larger, untarnished nuts for eventual seed
resale to farmers. A significant factor in the unavailability of
improved groundnut seed is the tedious and costly manual sorting system.



- 11 -
(c) Upland Rice is commonly grown once the timing of the rainy
season has become well established. Varieties generally planted are
short maturing (mainly IR 35 and Sintani) because rains are unpredictable
and irrigation is unreliable. Certified stock and extension seeds are
rarely available and utilized in the upland areas. The seed production
companies' emphasis on the Cisadane variety used in lowland irrigated
areas has contributed to this situation.
Due to the rainfall sensitivity of rice and current lowland
preferences toward late maturiting, high yielding varieties, it is most
likely that project associated research, extension and seed production
efforts will concentrate on short maturing, drought resistent upland
varieties. The adoption of these varieties by project participants will
depend almost solely upon their availability and thus on local upland
production.
{d) Several varieties of soybeans are grown (oftentime
simultaneously) for resale in the project areas. Its relatively high
resistence to drought and yearlong marketability makes it a necessary
crop in several areas. The early maturing Lokon variety appears to offer
the best potential for higher yields with good husbandzy practices,
fertilization and pest control. Qality certified soybean seed is rarely
available and, when available, is often used by government related credit
programs. Because sorting/grading of soybeans is time consuming, it is
often done at the farmer producer's home and is subject to mixing with
other varieties. Low germination and varietal mixing complicate planting
and harvesting operations producing lowing yields.
6. Experimental Livestock Sector
An experimental sector of the project will deal with livestock.
At present, livestock production often contributes l5.to 25% of farn
income in these two wate:sheds. Brama cows are prefered by many farmers,
but mall ruminants, such as goats and sheep, play a more important role
in the household economy. The latter are a form of savings and a readily
available source of capital.
Despite the decreasing amount of land available for agricultural
purposes, small ruminants continue to be widely raised. They are more
adaptable to varying environments, their reproductive cycle is much
faster than that of cattle or water buffalo and there is a ready market
for them. Typical goat or sheep herd size for uplands families is 3 to 5
head. The average number of small ruminants/family is shown on Table 4.
Present stocking rates vary from .24 to .95 AU/ha (1 AU is
equivalent to 500 kgs live weight). With project inputs, the carrying
capacity could increase to 5 animal units (AU) per ha of land under grass
vegetation or sIlvipasture with low tree density and shade tolerant
grass/Legumes. Table 4 demonstrates the potential for increased
livestock and farm income.



- 12 -
Table 4
Average Number of Small Ruminants*
Area      Total   Total   Total        Nuaber     SR
Location       (ha)'    * SR    Cattle  AU/ha** Families    Mly
Central Java
Semarng      88,870    83,881    4,538    0.11   130,477        0.64
Bcoyolall    42,024     98,439   17,125      0.55    46,862     2.10
Grobogan    103,686    69,513    37,588      0.40    96,050     0.72
Blora        65,911     31,665   55,182      0.91    58,758     0.54
East Java
Malang      171,570     55,828   31,751      0.32   125,421     0.44
B2ltar       38,776     34,555   29,282      0.81    4S,773    0.75
TLlungagung  63,069     32,188   28,290    0.48    61,947       0.52
frenggalek   98,737    83,335   27,181       0.33    97,643     0.85
FOr the analysis in this livestock table it is assumed that
livestock numbers rePOrted bY the districts are totals for adult and
young animal. It Ls assumed that the livestock is supported now
from all land rather than just the cultivated land. Also the 'Area
(Ha)" category may not include roadsides, stream banks, drainages,
vllages and huae gardens. Tis land is an important source of
forage in the present cut and carry system of the project area. If
this in the case, the calculated stocking rate may actually be lower
due to the same number of amimals being supported by greater land
area.
T - otal land area vith no distinction between agriculture and
non-agriculture land.
* 1 AAU - 1000 lbs or 500 Xgs of liveweight of livestock. One head of
cattle - 500 Kg - 1 AU
One goat/sheep - 30 Xgs - .06 AU



- 13 -
On an exper-imental basiLs, the project will supply 4 adult small
ru-mnants/ha as an incentive for farmers to Invest their resource-% in
soil conservation efforts such as silzipasture. Before receiving the
animals, farmer recipients will be required to plant grasses, legumes
and/or trees * Te farmer would normally have to wait several years (up
to 5 years) to realize cash benefits from tree crops, but if pastures are
planted the farmer can more quickly realize a modest but steady income.
Even under less than favorable soil conditions, silvipasture may support
1-2 AU/ha (10 to 20 goats or sheep).
One of the first considerations to increase stocking rates should
be the year-round availability of sufficient feed. In the project areas
that have rainfall of 2500 mm/yr and above, distributed over 8 months or
more, there is no problem of year-round supply of forage. Where it is
less than 2500 mm/yr, the availability of dry season fodder must be
assessed before increasing the livestock population. Lamtorco would be an
appropriate choice for this area as it is draught resistant and maintains
green leaves during the dry season. On a wet basis of 85% moisture it
yields 11 t/ha/yr. Other possible forages are Setaria spp (54 t/ha/yr)
and Brachiaria (32 t/ha/yr), which are improved grasses, that have higher
nutritive value and are higher yielding than common native grasses. In
addition to these introduced forages, farmers can (and presently do) use
crop by-products such as leaves frovi cassava, corn, peanuts and soybeans
to supplement livestock feed during the dry season. There are also
possibilities for cutting the excess pasture production during the rainy
season and preserving it as hay for use in the dry season. Thus a higher
stocking rate can be maintained throughout the year.
Small ruminants play an important role in the family fazming
sytem. They utilize crop by-products that would otherwise go unused: the
family can generate cash for specific needs through sale of goats or
sheep; and manure produced can be sold or used to help maintain soil
fertility.
To date, few data have been taken on possible forages, but some of
the promising ones include Brachiaria briantha (32 t/ha/yr) Leucaena
leucaecephala (11 t/ha/yr) Septana splendida (54 t/ha/yr).* These
species have relatively higher nutritional quality and higher yields than
native grasses, and are appropriate for the various climatic and rainfall
conditions of the project area. Specific monthly yield data is not
available, so It is difficult to predict yield of each species and hence
the carrying capacity, during the dry season. Only part of the project
area has an extended dry season and low annual rainfall that makes
year-round availability of forage a critical factor in increasing
stocking rates. Bowever, there are several indications that, although
yields do decrease during the dry period, farmers presently have access
to and use other feeds.
* These figures are on a wet basis of 85% moisture content.



- 14 -
B. Economic Analysis
1. Conceptual Background
Soil and water conservation (SWC) programs involve the use of
limited public and private resources that have alternate uses. Therefore
these programs are subject to the same kind of economic evaluation as any
other program. It is necessary to stress this point because there is a
kind of SIC "Pandamentalism" (where objectivity is replaced by a moral
imperative) that holds these programs to somehow be beyond
economics--that they are, so to speak, worth whatever they cost. While
it is true that SWC programs are somewhat different from many other
programs because they involve long-run, irreversible, and uncertain
effects, conventional economic analysis provides a framework for rational
decision-making--although, as in all other fields, it is never sufficient
for the final decision.
SCW programs create essentially three kinds of benefits:
- Increased production of agriculture, forest, and grass products,
- Reduced external costs of downstream sedimentation and
flooding, and
- Preserzvation of option values for an uncertain future.
The on site, external and inter-temporal dimensions of SWC
programs must all be evaluated as quantitatively as possible if rational
choices are to be made in this important field.
In principle, the on site and external benefits of SWC programs
can be estimated with a reasonable degree of accuracy--although the data
is rarely available to actually do so. The situation with respect to
option values is quite another matter. For example, in attempting to
estimate the need for soil on site a centuzy from now, one must be able
to forecast both consumption demand and agricultural technology at that
time. Future technology, which is based on new knowledge, is impossible
to predict even in principle. It simply is not known what the value of
land will be beyond the horizon of present technology--it may be more
than today's value, or less. In cases of uncertainty and risk it is
rational to pay a certain amount in the present to preserve an option for
the future. In the case of risk, where probabilities can be assigned,
the value of the option can be estimated, as in insurance premiums. In
cases of pure uncertainty, where no probability can be assigned, the
value of the option is strictly a matter of the subjective judgement of
decision-makers.
However, while economic analysis cannot tell decision-makers the
value of the option, it can define the cost of the option. For example,
if a project carries a favorable rate of return on the basis of the
countable benefits.alone, then the cost of the option is zero. Nothing
is given up by having the option if the project that carries the option
is desirable on other grounds. On the other hand, if the project does



- 15 -
not carry a favorable rate of return on the basis of the countables, then
the cost of the option is the amount of additonal benefit necessary to
make it favorable. For example, in benefit-cost terms, if a 3/C ratio of
1.2 is considered favorable, and the B/C ratio on the basis of the
countables alone is only 0.9, then the cost of the option is equal to 0.3
of the total countable benefits. After this computation is finished
decision-makers can decide if the project is worth doing. This is the
basic methodology used here for the economic evaluation of SWC program.
2. Overview
The Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project is targeted to
have direct impact on the agricultural system in the upper watershed
regions of the Jratunseluna and Brantas Basins of Central and East Java,
respectively. Through the Sustainable Upland Warming Systems (SUFS)
component, dem plots (10 ha each) will be established on critical lands
with greater than 15% slope to demonstrate improved technology
appropriate for increasing agricultural productivity in upland areas.
These dem plots will be developed under the supervision of the extension
service, with all dem plot participants responsible for constructing
bench terraces on their own land to prevent future declines in
productivity and for assisting to build waterways for the contiguous
terraced area. As an incentive to participate, in the first and second
years, cooperators will be given improved seed varieties and inputs to
Increase yields and a subsidy to cover the cost for construction of
waterways for establishing grass to stabilize the terraces and for
improved seed varities and inputs to increase yields. In subsequent
years, credit will be available to finance input purchases.
In year 2, the technology demonstrated on the dem plot will be
extended to nearby farms with participants given the same incentives
provided to the initial dem plot cooperators. As appropriate technology
is identified, project activities will expand to cover the steep sloped
areas--say, 40% and above--through such technologies as grass and tree
strip terracing, orchards, grasses and fodder trees, fuel wood and other
cash crops.
To support the SUFS dem plot/expansion program, the Upland
Agriculture and Conservation Project includes components in applied
research, human resource development and upland village access roads.
In addition to directly increasing upland agricultural
productivity, the project has secondary impact beyond the immediate
project area. Stabilizing the uplands will reduce the siltation rate in
downrstream dams, extending their useful life for producing hydroelectric
power and irrigating the lowlands, and in the coastal estuaries, thereby
increasing fisheries productivity. Technology developed through the
applied agricultural research component will increase agricultural
productivity in upper watershed areas throughout Indonesia. Organization
and management strategies incorporated into the project will have
widespread applicability for increasing project effectiveness throughout
the agricultural sector.



- 16 -
3. Crop Systems
The primaxy annual crops grown in the Jratunseluna and Brantas
River Basins include cassava, corn, peanuts, soybeans with some upland
rice, sweet potatoes and mung beans. Econonic crops include sugar cane,
clove, coffee, firewood trees and fodder trees.
In each of the two target provinces, the project will focus on
four districts. In each district, activities are concentrated in the
sub-districts most affected by soil erosion due to annual cropping
activities. Table 1 (a-d) shows estimated yields and area for each
sub-district in the project area. These average yields tend to over
estimate actual yields found in the project areas since 1) the data
represents an average of yields in lowland and upland environments, 2)
yields are generally higher in the lowlands, 3) only a portion of each
sub-district is in the upper watershed, and 4) the values generally
reflect pure stand yields whereas producers in the upper watershed
inter-crop.
Based on Bina Marga District data, the major annual food crop
cropping patterns are estimated in Table 2. While upland rice is also
grown In the upper watersheds, data is not available to estimate the
upland rice area. Consequently, upland rice is an additional crop in
some unknown proportion in the listed cropping patterns.
4. Prices
Financial prices for material inputs are based on current
government farm level supply prices. Seed prices are adjusted to reflect
the cost of improved varieties. Labor costs are based on the prevailing
wage rate in the area. Output prices are based on seasonal low rural
market prices (1983) in Central and East Java, estimated by the Central
Bureau of Statisties. Working Paper I discusses the marketing situatlion
with respect to secondary crops in Indonesia.
Economic prices are derived from world market prices (mid-1983)
backed down to farm gate prices. The minimum shadow price of under
employed labor is assumed to be Rp 500/md, equal to the estimated daily
minimum wage necessary for a head of household to support a family of
five persons.
5. Without Project Situation
For estimating crop production in the without project situation,
results in Tables 1 (a-d) and 2 were reviewed as well as studies
conducted in similar upper watershed areas. The cropping pattern,
cassava and corn with peanuts, was chosen for representative analysis
because it is an important pattern in the area and is a more intensive
existing pattern than a monoculture or two-crop pattern. Improvements
achieved in this pattern would have an even greater impact on less
intensive existing cropping patterns.



- 17 -
input levels and yields associated with this existing cropping
pattern are shown in Table 3, assuming that 20% of the first and second
crops are planted to cassava and 80% to corn and peanuts, respectively.
Total labor is estimated at 200 md/ha, 30% of which is hired. Input
levels and yields are based on a synthesis of data shown in Table I
(a-d), research conducted in similar areas, and the judgment of the
technical personnel (Working Paper L, Secondary Crop Marketing).
Financial and economic prices for inputs and outputs are shown in
Table 4.
Under the assumed cropping pattern and input levels (Table 3) and
prices (Table 4), net returns/ha are shown in Table S. In the absence of
a better yield/soil loss functon for critical areas, it is assumed that
net returns decline at a rate of 2% p.a. as a consequence of soil erosion
in critical areas.
6. With Project Situation
Analysis of the with project situation is based on estimates of
productivity increases that can be achieved in the existing cropping
pattern through the introduction of new seed varieties, fertilizer and
pesticide--once the soil-moisture regime is established by terracing.
Input levels applied in the introduced cropping pattern are shown in
Table 6. In years 1 and 2, inputs are subsidized, but in subsequent
years producers are assumed to borrow or use their own capital at
discount rate of 2%/month.
As a consequence of the adoption of new seed varieties, fertilizer
and pesticide, cassava yields are expected to increase by 50% and corn
and peanut yields by 100 compared to the without project situation. It
is assumed to take five years for the existing technologies to achieve
their full potential as producers will require some time to fine-tune the
recommended practices. From years 6 to 15 it is estimated that cassava,
corn and peanut yields will increase at an anual rate of 2%, 3% and 3%,
respectively as a consequence of research activities conducted by the
applied research component of the project. From years 16 to 30 it is
assumed yields will remain constant without further research. The yields
for years 1 to 30 projected under these assumptions are shown in Table 7.
Under the assumed cropping pattern and input levels (Table 6) and
resulting yields (Table 7), net returns are shown in Table 8a (financial)
and Bb (economic) for the food crop enterprise. Financial returns to
farmers are shown net of subsidies under the SUFS component. Economic
returns include the economic costs of the subsidies for farm imputs.



- 18 -
Table l(a)
Secondary Crop area (ha) and Yields (kg/ha)
in Project Sub-Districts of the upper watershed regions
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basins (1982)
|                     Corn           Cassava         Soybeans        Peanuts
| Districts/       Area  Yield   Area  Yield   Area  Yield   Area  Yield I
| Sub-Districts    (ha)   (kg)   (ha)   (kg)   (ha)    (kg)   (ha)    (kg) I
M ?alang
| Pagak              NA    NA    1,410   15,820   721    698    203    729 |
| Dampet             NA    NA    1,494   17,880       0       0     10    700 |
| Xalipare           NA    NA   1,935  16,320    921    705    539    701 |
| Gudangan           NA    NA        NA       NA    NA      NA      NA      NA |
I Suber manjung    NA    NA    1,885  17,030   164    707           37    649 |
| Bantur             NA    NA    4,883   15,430    196    674       21    667 |
| Ampel gading       NA    NA    2,347  18,610        0      0      15    667 I
| Donomulyo          NA    NA    4,234   16,790   469    693    165    752 |
| Wajali             NA    NA       181  16,630       0       0      5    800 |
|                    NA    NA   18,369   16,650  2,462    698    995    713 |
I                                                                              I
I     C:ropping Pattern
I       NA
| Blitar                                                                       I
j Kademangan      1,448   698    2,178    7,697    170   597    204    479 |
B sakung            754   752   1,833    7,929    202   340    114    428 |
I Sutojayan         200  1,242    1,125    9,393    114   523    258    553 1
| Panggungrejo   1,460    803   1,515   4,779   1,250   388          0       0 J
| Binangun        1,452   771    2,215    6,084   2,196   615        0       0 1
I Wates           1,249  1,139   1,077   5,680  1,217   737    881    437
3                 6,563   844    9,943    6,929   5,149   533  1,457    462 I
I 
I     Cropping Pattern           Area  (%)                                     I
Cassava monoculture         33
Cassava + corn + peanuts    17                                        I
Cassava + corn I soybeans   50                                         |
I                                                                              I
I                                                                              I
NA - Data not available
Source: Bina Marga
#4066A:joy:7/5/84



- 19 -
Table 1( b)
Secondarv Crop area (ha) and Yields (kg/ha)
in Project Sub-Districts o3 the upper watershed regions
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basins (1982)
Corn           Cassava         Soybeans         Peanuts
| Districts/       Area  Yield   Area   Yield   Area   Yield   Area  Yield I
I Sub-Districts     (ha)    (kg)    (ha)    (kg)    (ha)    (kg,    (ha)    (kg)
I Tulung Agung
I Rejotangan          937   2,026     564   8,700    319     725     340     760 3
| Tanggung gunung    624   2,626       36   8,400      0       0    266      500 1
I Pucang laban        779   1,337  1,975   4,733    236    455       538     400 |
| Seadang             791   1,100   1,730  10,393     14     514   1,710     960 |
| Pagerwajo         1,182   1,270   1,295   7,811      0       0      93     900 I
| Kamman               78     800      37   8,500     43     553      12    650 |
Kali Dawir       1,047   1,726   1,508   5,147    261     655      96    700 |
x Xarang rejo         827   2,870     656   7,713    175    805      240     980 1
I6,331   1,780 a  7,791   7,200  1,054   650   3,364     800
I                                                                                I
I     Croping Pattern             Area  (%)
i       Cassava monoculture           19
CCassava + corn              25                                          I
I       Cassava + corn + peanuts      43
!       Cassava + corn + soybeans    13
i                                                                                I
T Trenqqalek                                                                     I
i Pale                118    1,560   2,54d    9,755      14   321       0     0  |
x Zarangan          1,266    1,891   2,374    9,787   1,588   465      71   572
P Panggul.             69    1,056     849    9,726     893   429    151   498
Dongko             224    1,653     996    8,496      94   450      46   576  |
I Darenan            538    2,495      495   10,553     783   583      21  633
Tugu             1,112    1,781   1,672    9,568     803    589     37   549  I
I Xampak               s0      900     720    9,057     280   441    109   542  |
I Watulimo             44    1,770   2,988    9,585      73   485      56   627  I
B Dendungan         2,407    1,801   1,805    9,805      13   400       0     0  |
| Gandusari           822    1,859   1,307    9,754   1,022    569    275   614  |
| Trenggalek          381    1,677     723    9,591     789   579      23   600  |
I Pagolan             372    1,561     463    9,554     739   478      95   583
7,433    1,827  16,940    9,607   7,091    515   884   575
I     Cropping Pattern            Area  (%)                                      I
I       Cassava monoculture           56
I       Cassava + corn + peanuts      39
1       Cassava + corn + soybeans      5
I                                                                                I
1,                                                                               I
Source: BirLa Marga
#4066A: j oy: 7/5/84



- 20 -
Table I(c)
Secondaxy Crop area (ha) and Yields (kg/ha)
in ProJect Sub-Districts in the upper watershed regions
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basins (1982)
I                     Corn           Cassava         Soybeans         Peanuts 
| Districts/       Area  Yield   Area  Yield   Area  Yield    Area  Yield I
Sub-Districts     (ha)    (kg)   (ha)    (kg)   (ha)    (kg)   (ha)    (kg)
I Getasan          1,421   2,625     147   10,565     1    100        1   600  1
I Jambu            2,894   2,837     935   13,294     0       0       5   800
I Ungaran            208   1,909    287   13,408      0       0    153    856  1
I Klepu              357  1,675    950   13,334       7    857    217    848
I Tegarun            984   2,019    232   11,237      0       0       7    343
I Sumowono         1,847   2,485     347   13,225     0       0       0      0  I
B Dawen               88   2,114     286   13,272     0       0      59  1,712  |
I Susukan            431   2,814    221   12,534  129    798    863    650
I Tumtang            109   2,119     459   11,634     0       0       0      0  1
I Ambrawa            882   2,387     628   13,311    0        0       2   500
3 Bagin              437   2,261    367   10,515      2    500    363    967
ISuxzuh              304   2,084    495  10,721       0       0    423    650  I
I                    10,117   2,496   5,354   12,538   139    799   2,093    783  1
cropping Pattern          Area   %)|
Corn monoculture             47                                         I
Cassava monoculture          31
Cassava + corn + peanuts      1                                         1
I       Cassava + corn + soybeans    21                                         1
I Noyolali.
wonosegoro       2,496   1,698   1,367   9,096    605   562    249  1,072
I Kuuu           2,528   1,808   1,128   8,618    266   564    380    692
I Klego            1,047   1,566   1,525   9,800    488 1.002       223    659
J uangi              520   1,040     509   5,760    147   544        25   640
Xaranggede         996  1,519  1,107  9,858    175    863    131    687  1
| Andong           1,041   1,560   1,464   9,034      18    556    542    659  |
9,628   1,637   7,100   9,036   1, 699   718  1,550    736  I
Cropping Pattern          Area (9                                        I
I        O:brn monoculture           18                                         1
I       C1assava monoculture         44                                         1
Cassava + corn + peanuts    1.8 
I       Caxsava + corn + soybeans   20                                          I
Source: Bina arga
#4066: joy: 7/5/84



-23-
Table l(d)
Secondary Crop area (ha) and Yields (kg/ha)
in Proiect Sub-Districts in the upper watershed regions
of the Jratiuseluna and Brantas River Basins (1982)
Corn          Cassava         Soybeans         Peanuts   |
I Districts/       Area  Yield   Area  Yield   Area  Yield   Area  Yield |
I Sub-Districts    (ha)    (kg)   (ha)   (kg)   (ha)   (kg)   (ha)   (kg) I
| Grobogan
I Kradenan         3,699   1,698    325   9,791      387   814    74   554  |
Gasbus          4,100   1,557    340    9,956   2,056   701       0      0I
I Geyer            1,850   1,589  1,940   13,174      78   820    84   833  |
I Kedung jati        123   1,667     357   9,434      90   711    66   758
I Torah            6,012   1,572      62  10,290   1,273   766    18   500 S
x Karang agung    1,258   1,572  1,308    9,038    189   757    14   571  |
I Pulokulon       3,324   1,614    320   8,525       91   654       0      0
21,041   1,549  4,652  10,892   4,164   736   256   695
I     .I
I     CCOpping Pattern           Area  (L)                                     I
I       Corn monoculture             77
Cassava monoculture         12
I       Cassava + corn + peanuts    10
|       Cassava + corn + soybeans    1
I                                                                              I
B Elora                                                                        I
I Jepon           12,921    625    854  7,645    1,617   413   1,749   389  1
| Ngamen           8,382    908    882   7,496    4,736   264    923  333  1
| Banjarejo        7,970    913    532  7,684    1,717   767    843  439  |
I Tanjungan        5,762    803    551   7,668    3,613   450  1,712  430  1
| Blora            1,816    811    105  7,638        598   455    244  414  I
36,851    789  2,924   7,611   12,281   *'18  5,471  401  I
I     Cropping Pattern           Area  (M)
I       Corn monoculture             44
I       Corn + cassava                8
Corn + peanuts              15 i
Corn + scybeans             33                                        1
4                                                                              I
*4066A: j 07: 7/5/84



- 22 -
Table 2
Relative Occurance of Major Cropping Patterns
found in the Upper Watershed Regions
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basins (1982)
I        t                     Cropping Pattern
I  I  I  I  I  I Cassava | Cassava | Cassava |
I        I         I         I         I         I    +     +  Corn |   +
I        I Corn   I Cassava t Cassava | Cassava I Soybeans] Corn   I Corn
I        IKNono   |Mono-          +    I   +               I I   +    I  +
t________ I culture | culture I  Corn  I Peanuts I Soybeansl Peanuts I Soybeansi
IPercent
Iof area    34    I   19   1   7    I   5    |   11   1   16   1   8
I_____ I .    I              _         .I                      1        I  I
Source: Estimated from Bina Marga data for respective sub-districts.
Table 3
Characteristics of the Dominant Intercropped Farmers' Cropping Patterns
in Moderately Sloped Areas in the Upper Watershed Regions
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basins
(per ha)
I     _           lOUTPUT                   INPUTS
C Cropping  I      I      I       ILabor I Hired I|ertili-I  Seed (kg1)
I Pattern I ICassaval Corn IPeanutsl  (MD) I  %    lzer (kg)I Corn I Peanuts
I          I       I                      I       I              I
I Cassava + I      I      I       I
I corn +   1 2,000 1 1,0001  500 1 200 1  30  1  75   1 40  1   60   1
I peanuts  I       I      I       I       I       I
I          I       I      I       [       I       I       I      I
Note: Derived from Bina Marga data and synthesis of research reports.
#4066A:joy:7/5/84



- 23 -
Table 4
Prices of Inputs and Outputs in the upper watershed regions
of.the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basins (1983)
I'                        I        1   Price/Value     I   Price/Value      I
|  F a c t o r            I Unit  I FinanciallEconomic I FinanciallEconomic |
I                        I        I                    I
INPTS
r Fertilizer:            I        I          I                              I
- Urea                    | kg    |    90   I   200|   .09   I   .20  |
I -TSP                    I kg    |    90   I   2381    .09   1   .24|
I - Cx                   | kg    |    90   |   177  |   .09   |   .18  |
I Insecticide:           I        I          I         I          I
| - Diazinin             I lt    I  1500   1  6000  |  1.50   1  6.00  |
- Furidan               I kg    |   400   1  1600  I   .40   I  1.60  I
| Labor:                 I        I          I         I
- -F rm                   Imanday     1000   1   500 S     1.00          o .50
i - Public Works         | manday |  1000   |   500  |  1.00   |   .50  |
j Materials:             |        I          I         I          I         I
w-Waterways            | ha    | 60000   | 60000  |   .60   1   .60  |
i                        I        I          I.        I          I         I
ISeed:                   I        I          I         I                    I
Local                      
- Corn                  |kg    |   150   |   150           .15   I   .15
- Peanut                |kg    |   850   I   850a         .85   I   .85
|  Improved              |
- Corn                  | kg    |   300   |   300  |   .30   1   .30
I  - Peanut              Ikg    I   900   I   9001    .90   I   .90
JOUTPIJ,SIIIIII
I    O SI                         I          I         I          I         I
| Cassava                1kg    I    30             0 3     .03   |   .031
| Cbrn                    1kg    I   110   I   169          .11   I   .17
I Peanut                 I kg    I   750   I   4071    .75   I   .411
#4066A:joy:7/5/84



- 24 -
Table 5
Crrent Returns from FaPaer's Cropping Pattern
Without ProJect Moderately Sloped Areas in the
Jratunseluna and Drantas River Basin.
I          I_________  Ibpenses'         I         Returns
| I  I FeiIrtl       l       l                   I
__________I Seed       lizer**l Labor  I Total I Gross I  Net  |
I          1                  I    - --I          I         I l=I
I FinanJiai 1 57,000 I  6,750 t  60,000 | 123,750 | 545,000 | 421,250 |
z coonamic  1 57,000 I 15,950 I 100,000 I 172,950 I 431,500 1 258,550 t
1___  Ij_ _    1                         I      I           1I,
* See Tables 3 and 4 for yields, izwut levels and prices used in
estimating returns.
' Analysis assmes labor use declines by 3 percent/year, compared to
previous year's total.
#4066&: joy: 7/5/84



- 25 -
7. Livestock Ekperiment
In addition, during the first three year. of the project,
experiments wlll be conducted to test the technical and economic
viability of small ruminants in the project areas. In steep slope areas
grass and tree plantations will be established, inter-,copped with
agricultural crops for the first 2-3 years, to provide fodder for
livestock. Also grass production from the risers of bench-terraces nay
supply sufficient fodder to support livestock.  The major constraint will
be fodder supplies through the dry season. This constraint can only be
solved through dry season production of fodder, or by storage. If the
experiments are successful a livestock subsidy progras will be made
available in the program beginning in the fourth year. Bowever, the
livestock sector has not been included in this analysis.
8. Economic Analysis: Project Level
a. Total Net incremental Benefit from the SUPS Component
Direct project benefits are generated as a consequence of the
Sustainable Upland Farming Systems component on farm level productivity,
as shown in Table 9a. Cols. 1 and 2 show the net annual return per ha
with and without the project respectively. Incremental net project
returns per ha are shown in col. 3. The total additional area to be
improved by the project p.a. is shown in col. 4. Tbtal net economic
benefits, excluding project level costs, are shown in col. S. The total
net benefit shown in col. 5 is derived by first multiplying the net
Lncremental benefits on one hectare for each of the project years 1-30
times the number of hectares covered by the project in years 0-6, as
shown in Table 9b. 5he benefit streams are crnmmed across each year to
obtain col. 5 of Table 9a. To generate a 30-7ear flow of benefits from
all dam plot/expansion hectares, six extra years are added to Table 9a
and b as the 30th year of benefits from development initiated in year 6
do not occur until year 36.
b. Economic Evaluation: Direct Project Level Co--I.s and Benefits
Total project costs (including 10% contingency), as explained
in Section V of the Project Paper, are shown in Table 9a. Col. 6. The
SUPS costs have been reduced by the economic value of waterways,
materials, seeds, fertilizer and pesticides that have a: ready been
included in the first two years, as shown in Table 8. Col. 7 presents
the net stream of project benefits after all project levtl costs (with
the SUPS component adjusted) are deducted. As shown in col. 8 of Table
9a, the IRR of the project on this basis is slightly less than 12%.



- 26 -
Table 6
IPuts LeveLs
of the Jratunseluma and Brantas River Basin8 (1983)
1            jc|       Croppinpg Pattetern
I        a c t o r             ' Unit    I   Existim        Introduced 7I
INPUTS                    I            I                I
I Fertilizer:             I            I                I
- Urea                   |   kg       1        50      |       200
| -TSP               .         kg      |        25      |       200
| - CL                    |   kg       |         0      |       100       |
I Insecticide:            I            |                I
I - Diazinin              |   lt       |         0      |         9      |
- Fuidan                      k Xg    |         0      |         6
I Labor:
| - Fazm (total, yr. 1)       manday   |       200      |       206
I -EHired                 |  percent 1          30      I        30
I Materials:              I            |
I - Waterways             |  man-days  I         0      1        30      1
| - Terraces building         mandays  |0                       So 500   |
- Terraces maintenance     mandays            0               10       |
i                         I            I                I                I
ISeed:                    1 -
I   ocal                  1            I                I
_ -Corn               I   kg       1        40       I        0
- Peanut              |   kg       |        60       |        0
i Improved                I            I                I
|  -Corn                  I   kg       1         0      |        40
I  - Peanuts              |   kg       |         0      |        60      |
#4066A: joy: 7/5/84



- 27 -
Table  7
Yields in Introduced Cropping Pattern with project
in the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basin*
(kg/ha)
I                           Cassava*          Corn           Peanuts
I     Year                    with            with            after     I
|                             Corn           Cassava         Cssava    I
1                   2,000            1,000             5o0 o
2                   2,200            1,200             600     l
3                   2,400            1,400             700     I
4                   2,800            1,800             850     l
5                   3,000            2,000           1,000
6                   3,060            2,060           1,030     l
7                   3,121            2,122           1,061
8                   3,184            2,185           1,093
I  9                3,247            2,251           1,126     l
.10                  3,312            2,319           1,159     l
I  11                3,378            3,388           1,194
12                   3,446            2,460           1,230
*      13                    3,515            2,534           1,267     I
A14                         3,585            2,610           1,305     l
I      15                    3,657            2,688           1,344
* -     -16                  3,657            2,688           1,344
-      17                    3,657            2,688           1,344
18                  3,657            2,688           1,344     1
g19                         3,657            2,688           1,344
20                   3,657            2,688           1,344     1
21                   3,657            2,688           1,344
22                   3,657            2,688           1,344
-       *23                  3,657            2,688           1,344
24                   3,657            2,688           1,344
25                   3,657            2,688           1,344
26                   3,657            2,688           1,344
27                   3,657            2,688           1,344     I
28                   3,657            2,688           1,344     l
I      29                    3,657            2,688           1,344
30                   3,657            2,688           1,344
*    Yields from years 1-5 are based on an estimate of the potential
of existing technology.  Yields from years 6-15 are based on the
assumption that project research activities will develop
improved technology that will increase cassava, corn and peanut
yields by 2, 3 and 3% year, respectively. From year 16-30,
yields will remain constant without further research.
*406G6A:jy:7/5/84



- 28 -
Table 8a
Pinancial Returns from Introduced &CrPping Patterns with projeCt
Moderately Sloped Areas in the Upper Watershed Areas
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basin
(Hp/ha)
|                       Expenses*                     Returns ( Financial)   |
1 Year         Fertl-  Pesti- Hired   Inte-                                I
Seed   lizer    cide  Labor"  rest    Total    Gross         Not
I       0        0       0  61,800       0  61,800   545,000   483,200
2  28,000  20,000   6,000  63,654  4,660 126,914   648,000   521,086
3  66,000  45,000  15,900  65,564 10,962 203,426   751,000   545,574
4  66,000  45,000  15,900  67,531 10,962 205,393   919,500   714,107
5  66,000  45,500  15,900  69,556 10,962 207,418 1,060,000   852,582
6  66,000  45,000  15,900  71,643 10,962 209,505 1,090,900   881,395
7  66.000  45,000  15,900  73,792 10,962  211,654 1,122,709   911,055
8  66,000  45,000  lb,900  76,006 10,962 213,868 1,155,454   941,586 1
I 9  66,000  45,000  15,900  78,286 10,962  216,148 1,189,162   973,014 1
1 10  66,000  45,000  15,900  80,635 10,962 218,497 1,189,162 1,005,366
I 11  66,000  45,000  15,900  83,054  10,962 220,916 1,223,863  1,038,669
12  66,000  45,000  15,900  85,546 10,962 223,408 1,259,585 1,072,952
I 13  66,000  45,000   15,900  88,112 10,962 225,974 1,296,359  1,108,242
i 14  66,000  45,000  15,900  90,755 10,962 228,617 1,334,216  1,144,571
15  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340  1,373,168  1,181,968
. 16  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308 1,382,050
17  Lo,000  45,000   15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
18  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308 1,182,050
2 19  66,000  45,000   15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340  1,413,308 1,182,050
20  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
1 21  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340  1,413,308  1,182,050
22  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308 1,182,050
23  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
24  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308 1,182,050
25  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
26  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
27  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
1 28  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308 1,182,050
29  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308  1,182,050
1 30  66,000  45,000  15,900  93,478 10,962 231,340 1,413,308 1,182,050 I
I           .I
* See Table 4 for input levels and prices used in estimating returns. Seed,
fertilizer and pesticide are subsidized to project participants in years 1
and 2 as shown in Table 14 p.53.
* Analysis assumes a labor demand of 206 md/ha in year 1 and that labor demand
will increase by 3 percent per year compared to the previous year' s level.
' Interest costs estimated as 24% of first crop's material inputs and 12% of
second crop's material imputs.
44066h:joy: 7/5/84



- 29 -
Table Eb
EconoiLc Cost and Returns from Introduced Cropping Pattern with project
Moderately Sloped Areas in the Upnper Watershed Areas
of the Jratunseluna and Brantas River Basin.
(Hp/ha)
I               ~Rt ense8 1,                                                                                         I
Waterways      Terrace Labor                          Annual Crops                             bconoioa 1   -I
| Year       Materials           Cbn-     Main-               FertL-    PeetL- 
|                      Labor' struct*"  tain"**   Seed   luser          cide     Labor'***  Total       Gross        Net   I
1          60,000   15,000   250,000         0   66,000   105,300   63.600   103,000   662,900       431,500   231,400
2               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   106,090   345,990         511,900   165,810
3               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   109,273   349,173         592,100   242,927
4                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   112,551   352,451        732,350   377,899
5               0         0         a   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   115,927   355,827        833,000   477,173
6                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   119,405   359,305        857,090   497,795
7               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   122,987   362,887        861,685   S18,997
8               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   126,677   366,577        907,405   540,628
l 9                0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   130,477   370,377         933,672   563,295
I 10               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   134,392   374,292         960,708   594,416
11                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   138,323   378,323        988,535   610,212
12               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   142,576   382,476   1,017,178   634,702
13               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   l05,300   63,600   146,853   396,753   1,046,660   659,906
14               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   151,259   391,159   1,077,005   685,846
i15              0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,239   712,543
16               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
17                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
i1               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
I 19               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
1 20               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
21                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
22                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
23                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
24                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
25                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,109,302   712,605
I 26               0         0         0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605 I
27               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,109,302   712,605 |
29                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
29               0         0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   1,108,302   712,605
30                0        0          0   5,000   66,000   105,300   63,600   155,797   395,697   L,108,302   712,605
I/   See table 4 for lnput levels and prices used In estimating returns
&    30 md/ha
'*   500 md/ha
*O* 10 md/ha
"*' Analysis assumes a labor demand of 206 md/ha in year 1 and that labor demand will increage by 3 percent per year
compared to the previous year's level.
*1462ljoys



- 30 -
TABLE 9A EPONOMIC ANALYSIS UACP
1           2            3            4           5            6            7                         9
YEAR NET RETURN    NET RETURN INCREMENTAL        HA SUFS  TOTAL NET  TOTAL PRO- NET PROJECT   NPV e 12%    NPV OllX
/HA WITH        /HA WITH-  RETURNS/HA                   RETURNS  JECT COSTS    BENIFITS
PROJECT       OUT PROJECT                                  SUFS   ADJ SPILL
0            o            0            0            0          0      2841961    -2841961    -2537465    -2560325
1        -231          259         -490          100      -49000     4369266    -4418266    -3522215    -3585964
2          166         254          -66         1010    -503682       5475080    -5976762    -4255Y6S    -4371619
3         243          249           -6         2620   -1373073       6122414    -7495487    -4763517    -4937309
4         :30          244           136        4912   -2629146      6007304    -9636450    -4900s54    -5125313
5         477          239          230         6970   -3700316       5465966    -9186304    -4654067    -4911373
6         499          234          264         7344   -3615076      4074208    -7669284    -3479242    -3703608
7         519          229          290                   903504                   903504       364910       392055
8         541          225          316                 3092386                   3092386      1115143      1208890
9         563          220          343                 5068534                   5068534      1631932      178505V
10         586          216          370                 6221695                  .6221695      1766589      1974040
It         610          212          398                 6820551                   6820551      1750666      1949592
12         635          207          428                 7427969                   7427969      1702299      1912808
13         h60          203          457                 8049178                   8049178      1647021      1867368
14         686          199          467                 6682934                   9602934      1566340      1914771
15         713          195          518                 9335014                   9335014      1522743      1757710
16         713          191          522                iOO00365                  10000365      1456497      1696399
17         713          197          V26                10651399                  10651368      1395102      1627768
18         713          184          529                11241660)                 11241660      1305233      1547725
19         713          180          533                11711765                  11711765      1214121      1452656
20         713           176         537                11999204                  11999204      1110642      1340819
21         713           173         540                12086573                  12086573       999865      1216740
22         713           169         544                12172194                  12172194       891816      1103927
23         713           166         547                12256103                  12256103       807458      1001395
24         713           163         550                12338333                  12338333       725782       '908201
25         713           159         554                12418919                  12418919       652252       923543
26         713           156         557                12497893                  12497993       586073       746649
27         713           153         560                12575208                  12575288       526518       676822
26         713           150         563                12651135                  12651135       472941       613427
29         713           147         566                12725465                  12725465       424750       555884
30         713           144         569                12798308                  12798308       381412       503663
31         713           141         572                12869694                  12869694       342446       456282
32                                                      12882199                  12882198       306052       411464
33                                                      12370190                  12370190       262400       355955
34                                                      10929002                  10929002       206990       283319
35                                                       a162419                   8162419       138029       190630
36                                                       4198708                   4198708        63394       89342
37
TOTAL                                         12427        22956 295268278    34376221   250892057        -736867      3068169



- 31 -
TABLE 98 PROJECTIONS OF NET RETURNS
YEAR            1           2            3           4          Y            6
0
1      -49000
2       -9792      -494900
3        -574       -88698    -1283800
4       13623        -5901     -230088    -24068BO
5       23811       137594      -15048      -431372  -3415300
6       26389       240489      356926       -28213   -612105    -3598560
7       28957       266523      623839       669169    -40033      -644950
8       31616       292462      691377      1169580    949532       -42151
9       34265       319317      758665      1296201   1659603      1000492
10       37006       346079      928327      1422352   1939275      1748655
11       39838      373760       897749    152956   2018291        1937968
12       42761       402362      969555      1693108   2203604      2126579
13       45676      431887      1043751      1917731   2380287      2321846
14       49692       461326     1120340      1956933   2579314      2516439
15       51781       491691     1196707      2100423   2776696      2717716
16       52171       522995     1275477      2243597   2990446      2925689
17       52554      526928      1356654      2391276   3193606      3140372
18       52929      530792      1366582      2543467   3393158      3354433
19       53296      534579      1376905      2562642   3609113      3575230
20       53656       539290     1386728      2581435   3636323      3802773
21       54009       541926     1396355      2599851   3662999      3931443
22       54355       545490     1405789      2617899   3689121      3859539
23       54694       548953     1415035      2635586   3714731      3887074
24       55026       552406      1424095     2652920   3739929      3914059
25       55351       555761     1432974      2669907   3764424      3940502
26       55670       559049     1441676      2696554   3799528      3966419
27       55983       562270     1450204      2702968   3912149      3991915
28       56289       565427     1459561      2718855   3935299      4016704
29       56599       568521     1466751      2734523   3957985      4041095
30       56994       571553     1474777      2749879   3880217      4064999
31       57172       574525     1492643      2764926   3902005      4098424
32                   577437     1490351      2779672   3923357      4111381
33                              1497905      2794124   3944292      4133979
34                                           2909286   3964799      4155927
35                                                     3994995      4177534
36                                                                  4199709



- 32 -
c- EZonomic Anelysis: Indirect Benefits
In-so-fazr-as the project is successful in reducing flooding and
sedimentation, indirect benefits will be created for downstream
beneficiaries. A major goal of the research component of the project
vL1l be to measure the quantity of these indirect benefits. Pending data
from that research, only an indicative estimate is possible here.
Fortunately, there exists some information from a feasible study of a
similar project proposal in the watershed of the Xedung Ombo reservoir in
Central Java, by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Coxporation, which
provides the basis for an indicative analysis.
The reservoir has a dead storage capacity of 91 MC0 (million
m3) and a total storage capacity of 728 1C0. It is estimated that 2.4
NM of sediment is trapped in the reservoir p.a. At this rate of
sedimentation, total storage of the reservoir will be exhausted in 250
years.  Thus the dead storage would be filled in 38 years.  However,
sediment tends to pile up at the tail of a reservoir, displacing live
storaae. The estimate is 1.4 M1M loss of live storage p.a. The economic
analysis of the project indicates that the value of live storage is
$0.065/M3 resulting in an annual loss of live storage of $90,000 p.a.
The present value of this loss, at 12% discounted over 38 years, is
$740, 000.
A more significant loss, according to the report, is due to
damage to canals and irrigation facilities below the dam-fron other
areas in the catchment. A sediment trap on the canal might trap 1.251101
p.a. The cost of mechanically removing sediment is $1.40 m3 or $2.1
million p.a. The present value of this cost over 38 years is $17.6
=illion.
The SMEC study assumes that the rate of sedimentation could be
reduced by one-half by the bench-terraces and silvipasture introduced by
the UACP. Thus the total present value of reduced external costs would
be about $9 million--or, $10 million with other benefits to fisheries,
turbines, etc., included. The SWC part of the project costs $30
million. The present value of reduced external costs is about one-third.
of the project cost on the assumption that present rates of erosion will
not increase. If, without the project, erosion increased at a rate of 2%
p.a., then this value would double to $20 million or two-thirds of
project costs over the 38 year horizon. Longer horizons make no
substantial difference in the present value.
9. Conclusion: Economic Viability of the UACP
There are essentially three factors to consider in appraising the
economic viability of the UACP.
a. The bench-terrace/agricultural couponent, SUFS.
b. Downstream benefits of reduced flooding and sedimentation.
c. The spillover of benefits from agricultural research and roads,
to beneficiaries not formally included In the project.



- 33 -
TABLE 1o. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS UACP ADJUSTED FOR SPILLOVER EFFECTS
1           2            3            4            5            6           7            9
YEAR NET RETURN    NET RETURN INCREMENTAL        HA SUFS   TOTAL NET  TOTAL PRO- NET PROJECT   NPV 8 13X.   NPV *14X
/HA WITH        /HA WITH-  RETURNS/HA                   RETURNS  JECT COSTS    BENIFITS
*PROJECT       OUT PROJECT                                   SUFS   ADJ SPILL
O           0            0            0            0            0     2841961    -2841961    -2515010    -2492948
1        -231          259         -490          100      -49000      4369266    -4418266    -3460150    -3399712
2         166          254          -8B         Q101     -503682      5475060    -5978762    -4143582    -4035494
3         243          249           -6         2620    -1373073      6122414    -7495487    -4597122    -4437930
4         380          244          136         4912    -2629146.     3003652    -5632798    -3057257    -2925499
5         477          239          23B         6970    -3700316      3675612    -7375928    -3542795    -3360373
6         498          234          264         7344    -3615076      2037104    -5652180    -2402519    -2258822
7         519          229          290                   903504                    903504       339862       316732
a         541          225          316                  3092386                   3092386      1029408       950933
9         563          220          343                  5069534                   5069534      1493131      1367206
10         506          216          370                  6221695                   6221695      1621981      1472161
11         610          212          398                  6820551                   6820551      1573541      1415669
12         635          207          428                  7427969                   7427969      1516528      1352406
13         660          203          457                  9049179                   9049178      1454299      1295534
14         686          199          487                  8682934                   6682934      1368321      1216449
15         713          195          519                  9335014                   9335014      1320869      1147195
16         713          191          522                 10000365                  10000365      1252225      1078036
17         713          167          526                 10651389                  10651399      1180305      1007207
18         713          164          529                 11241660                  11241660      1102402       932477
19         713          160          533                 11711765                  11711765      1016374       832168
20         713          176          537                 11999204                  11999204       921521       765862
21         713          173          540                 12086573                  12086573       921443       676700
22         713          169          544                 12172194                  12172194       732090       597902
23         713          166          547                 12256103                  12256103       6S2334       528002
24         713          163          550                 12338333                  12338333       Se1160       466269
25         713          159          554                 12419919                  12419919       517660       411678
26         713          156   .    557                   12497893                  12497893       461019       363417
27         713          153          560                 12575286                  12575288       410508       320761
28         713          150          563        .        12651135                  12651135       365472       283067
29         713          147          566                 12725465                  12725465       325327       249763
30         713          144          569                 12799309                  12798308       289548       220344
31         713          141          572                 12869694                  12869694       257667       194363
32                                                       12892198                  12882199       228245       170659
33                                                       12370190                  12370190       193959       143751
34                                                       10929002                  10929002       151647       111407
35                                                        8162419                   8162419       100229       72997
36                                                        4198708                   4198708        45626       32933
37
TOTAL                                         12427        22956  295268278    27525089   257743189        -373736    -2906841



-3A-
On the basis of (a) above, the IRR is 12%, the same as the social
rate of discount and therefore, a marginal return on investment.
However, the downstream benefits (b) have potential for adding benefits
equal to at least one-third of project costs, as shown in the preceeding
section. Finally, much of the benefits of some of the components will
spillover to other beneficiaries tc) not counted here.  It could
plausibly be assumed that the value of these spillover benefits will be
equal to at least 50% of the costs of the research and roads components.
Table 10 shows the effect of reducing these costs by 50% and the costs of
the SUPS component by 33% to capture the potential value of downstream
flooding and sedimentation. The resulting IRR is slightly less than
13%. This is perhaps the most realistic estimate possible of the real
economic return to the project in the absence of better information.
C. Social Soundness Analysis
1. Introduction
The purpose of this analysis is to assess the compatability of the
Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project with the socio-cultural
environment of the target areas.
Throughout most of the 19th century, produce of the estate crops
was very good in upland areas of East and Central Java and the yields of
upland rice were equal to those of the wet rice areas. By the beginning
of the 20th century, however, economic conditions in upland areas of Java
began to deteriorate. Increased population pressure forced farners
farther and farther up the slopes of the hilly regions. At the same time
the average size of landholdings steadily decreased, from an average of
three hectares per farm in the 1930s to a little more than one hectare in
the 1960s. The carrying capacity of these regions was severely taxed so
that throughout the 1960s famine-like conditions were common place in
many regions. Government programs to build up food stocks have
significantly reduced the risk of famine and on-going family planning and
transmigration programs provide a partial solution to these problems.
However, the prevalence of malnutrition in these areas is still high and
environmental problems have steadily worsened. The development of
sustainable, ecologically sound, upland farming systems is also critical
to addressing the problems confronting upland communities.
2. Socio-Economic Environment
The populations of the upland areas of the Brantas and
Jratunseluna Watersheds share many of the same socio-economic
characteristics. Although there is a social and economic hierarchy in
the local commuities, the degree of difference that exist between
individuals is not very great. Living standards for the majority of the
population are quite low and material possessions are modest even at the
highest levels. The way of life is simple and largely based on
agriculture.



- 35 -
Landownership is the most important factor in determining wealth
and status in the uplands. In theory there are records of landholdings,
but due to changes in cultivation rights, loans, inheritance, etc., they
are inaccurate. Ihe average size of landholdings in the project area is
estimated at .70 hectare divided into several small parcels. In a
typical setting, a large landholder is someone who owns more than 2
hectares.  Landownership of 5 hectares or moLe is very uncommon. A
significant percentage of the population owns less than .50 hectare. The
social and economic stratification of these communities is reflected not
only by the size of the landholding, but also its quality and location.
The villages are frequently located in the valleys and the poorest
families own the most distant and least fertile plots on the mountain
slopes.
Absolute landlessness is uncocmon in the project area, but a
significant though uncertain proportion of the population does not own
enough land to provide for their livelihood throughout the year. The
scope for agricultural labor is limited for these small landholders
because few people own plots that cannot be worked by the family.
Families whose land cannot provide year round sustenance are therefore
dependent upon nonr-agricultural sources of income. For the older members
of these families and for the young females as well, cottage industries
provide one source of additional income. Many families depend upon a
variety of occupations in cities and nearby towns for this income.
Because of the demands of planting and harvesting their own land,
off-farm employment is frequently transitory. Males, ranging in age from
15 to 40 are the primary migrants.
Animal ownership is widespread though not universal in these
upland communities. They provide an additional source of income for many
families, either through direct ownership or caring for other
individuals' livestock.  Cattle, goats and sheep are the main runinants
tended in these areas.
Despite similarities among upland communities in these two
watersheds, there is a degree of diversity. Several factors contribute
to this diversity, the most obvious being those derived from variation in
the agro-c14iAtic zones. Other contributing factors are the availability
of off-farm employment opportunities, migration patterns, access to
markets, proximity to large urban centers and the presence of government
programs promoting rural development. On the basis of field trips to the
two watersheds, four general types of socio-economic categories were
developed.
In the first category, environmental degradation and declining
agricultural productivity are in a very advanced stage. Per-Anent out
migration is high. The population structure is heavily weighted towards
young children and adults over 45. Landholdings are very large,
averaging 2 hectares with some private holdings as high as 10 hectares.
Agricultural labor is in short supply and off-farm employment
opportunities are rare.



- 36 -
The second type is similar to the first with the exception that
erosion and declining agricultural productivity are not as advanced.
Subsistence farming, seasonal migration and limited access to markets are
characteristic of this type. A variety of government assisted programs
are the malnstay of new economic activity in these regions although the
returns from these programs appear to be minimal and there is little hope
of their becoming self-sustaining.
Zn the third category, households have significantly more
options. Substantial numbers of farmers in these areas own vet rice
fields as well as upland fields. Greater access to a-rkets, more
numerous off-farm employment opportunities (including agricultural labor)
and the emergence of a comercial orientation toward the farm entexprise
are everywhere in evidence. These communities are not as hoaogenous as
those described in categories 1 and 2 and the number of landless is
significantly higher.
Zn tho last category, sociO-economic conditions are quite similar
to those described in the third category. One major diatinction is that
the majority of upland households do not own wet rice lands. However,
opportunities for earning additional income through agricultural labor in
the nearby vet rice areas are plentiful. Other off-famr employment
opportunities in rural industries are also frequently available. As Is
the case in categories 1 and 2, these communities are relatively
h'mogenous.
3. Social Organization
For many Indonesian famers, the most important geographical unit
is the hamlet in vhich they live. The hamlet is a cluster of 50 to 100
dwellings, housing between 250 and 1,000 people. Many of the families
are closely related.
The hamlet is headed by an elected headman who represents the
lowest level of authority in the rural government structure. In many
cases the headman comes from the most prominent family within the
community whose members have served as hamlet headmen for many years.
This family invariably has a long and intimate association with the
hamlet and fulfills the role of community leaders. The dynam4sm and
community participation within the hamlet is often reflected in and
dependent upon the personality and attitudes of its leader.
The hamlet is a subdivision of the village or township
administrative structure. A typical townshLp is divided into 10 to 12
hamlets and Includes a population of 2,500 to 10,000 individuals. The
head of the village administrative structure has a staff of 4 to 7
individuals and a number of semi-public organizations at the village
level provide additional guidance * br development activities, the most
important of tbese organization is the LXZD.  The LDID is a relatively
recent addltion to the village aA-inistrative structure with no clear
lines of authority with regazd to the development process. In the
majority of cases, these organizations are dominated by the village
headman.



- 37 -
The role of the village headman in village affairs has changed
substantially in the past two decades. Traditionally, he served as a
comunity leader with primary responsibility as intermediate between the
village and the outside world. In more recent times, with the dramatic
increase of government programs targetted at the village level, the
headman' s role as community spokesman has given way to his position as
government representative at this level. In some respects, the village
headmen and their staffs have become the rural elite with far less in
commn with the rural peoples as was the case in the past. They remain
dominant figures in the political life of rural communi#ies but often do
not function as true community leaders.
4. The Project
The implementation strategy of the UAC Project focuses on
community participation and flexibility in the identification of
appropriate technical innovations. It also emphasizes testing faming
systems for improving the profitability of the farm enterprise, as
opposed to overall production levels, to ensure that the maxmum benefits
will be derived from the program. Further refinement and explication of
these strategies will necessarily have to occur within the first year of
the project's implementation. More importantly, however, the project is
designed to promote continous refinements of these strategies.
The importance of flexibility in the identification of appropriate
technological innovations stems from the significant degree of diversity
in the socio-econonic conditions within the project areas. For example,
labor intensive innovations will not be as suitable in areas in which
significant outmigration is occuring. LRsS capital intensive packages
might be more appropriate in subsistence areas than in communities
characterized by a commercial orientation to the farm enterprise. The
focus on siter-specific planning, which is central to the project
implementation strategy, is essential for identifying the critical
variables which will influence the acceptability of the innovation.
Qoounnity participation is an expliclt element of the proposed
project implementation strategy. Efforts to operationalize the concept
of participation are still in the formative stage and will have to be
clarified as project personnel gain additional experience in this area.
Initially, emphasis should be given to building a collaborative
relationship between the extension service and the farmer groups with
whom they work. Such a strategy necessarily focuses on strengthening the
capacity of the extension service to enlist the cooperation of the
farmers in the development of the demonstration plots and the subsequent
expansion of these activities iin surrounding areas. It is difficult to
generalize about the existing capability of the extension service to
operate along these lines. A stereotype of the extension service as
unresponsive to the needs of the farmers does exist. On the other hand,
field trips to the two watersheds indicated that receptivity to assigning
farmers a larger role in the extension system is in evidence and that
initial attempts to build a collaborative relationship between the two
groups are already underway.



% - 38-
A series of steps can be initiated at the oultset of the project to
effect community participation. The first is the unification of the
delivery of extension services.  The fragmented state of the existing
extension system and the dominance of food crop extension agents makes it
extremely difficult for farmers to get the information they need to
improve the productivity of their farming systems. A second step is to
concentrate on farm-centered data in the development of site-specific
plans for extension activities. A third step is to promote the
establishment of a monitoring system that will enable both extension
agents and farmers to assess the results of on-going efforts to improve
productivity and to adapt their activities accordingly. A fourth and
final step is to focus on the hamlet as opposed to the township as the
critical social unit in these activities.
5. Beneficiaries
The activities associated with the Upland Agriculture and
Conservation Project will benefit a wide array of groups but principally
will assist the rural families who own and operate farms in the 22,920
hectares of the target area. An estimate of the beneficiary population
of the tazget area, based upon average landholdings of .7 hectare and an
average family size of 5, is 160,000.
The immediate benefits to the principal beneficiaries will derive
from the increased yields and improved productivity expected from the
project activities. In the mediumr to long-term, more ecologically sound
farming practices will allow farmers to sustain the gains achieved from
the availability of improved farming systems technologies.
The extent and nature of these gains can be expected to vary
significantly from location to location, depending upon agro-climatic,
environmental and soccio-economic conditions. An important factor in
determining the impact of the project will be the extent to which the
activities have provided the beneficiaries with a greater range of
options for improving household social and economic well-being.
Other direct beneficiaries of the project include the lowland
households located in the two river basins. Restoring and preserving the
upland regions of the Brantas and Jra%,unseluna Watersheds will benefit
lowland populations whose farm enterprises are directly affected by soil
conservation measures in these areas. Project activities that stabilize
the soils in the upland areas will reduce the siltation rate in
downstreams dams, extending their useful life for producing hydroelectric
power and irrigating the lowlands. Similarly, reduced siltation in the
coastal estuaries will increase fisheries production. It is difficult to
estimate the size of this second group of direct beneficiaries. More
than half of the 3.2 mlillion of people living in the targetted areais of
the 8 districts will, over time, be directly benefitted by the project.
A sizeable percentage of the surrounding watershed pcpulations will also
be directly affected.



- 39 -
Tnd4rect beneficiaries include the populations of the numerous
watersheds found throughout Java. Their benefits will principally derive
from the applied agriculture research activities carried out under the
project which will have general application in other regions.
The above analysis states there may be landless population in the
watersheds in which the project will work. However, the available data
is inadequate to pirpoint locations and/or to estimate numbers of
people. The project activities are aimed at landowners and are not
intended to directly Involve the landless. Of course, if data generated
by the project surveys and other activities indicate opportunities to
provide assistance to landless persons under the rubrique of upland
agriculture and conservation, there is adequate flexibility to do so.
Project road construction will provide employment opportunities to
the general population in the areas, and the increased economic activity
brought about by the project also will benefit tl-e general pcpulation.
(Other USRID projects in the same geographic areas directly
benefit the landless).
Institutional development is an explicit focus of the project.
The effectiveness and efficiency of the extension service in the project
areas wlll be increased and the role of local authorities will be
strengthened in the design and implementation activities of development.
The improved organizational and management activities that will result
from this focus are expected to provide an institutional prototype that
sbould be replicable on a very large scale and thus indirectly benefit
these institution and the populations which they serve.
D   Administrative Analysis
1. Tntroduction
The puzpose of the administrative analysis is to assess the
administrative capabilities of the implementing agencies and to determine
whether specific implementation plans will be workable. The analysis
focuses on three elements of tho implementing agencies' opreations:
organization, management and staff. Assessment of the administrative
capabilities of the participating agencies is subdivided along the lines
of the project's four major components: sustained upland farming
systems, roads, agricultural research and training.
2. Sustaind Upland Farming Sstems
As a general obrervation both agriculture and conservation
programs of the government that focus on upland areas are highly
centralized and standardized. 5he rigidity imposed by the existing
centrallzed structure makes it extremely difficult &.or the relevant
government services to design and implement programs that can be tailored



- 40 
to the many of agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions of upland
areaz throughout Indonesia. A second general observation is that
government services for upland communities are highly fragmented,
complicating the effective delivery of farming systems technology.
The following discussion outlines the present governmental
structure and delivery system of conservation and agriculture
technologies through the Ministry of ibrestry and the Ministry of
Agriculture and discusses the relationship of both to local govercment.
a. The RegreeningProgram
The national Regreening Program (Penghijauan) constitutes the
GOI's principal delivery system focused on the conservation of the
nattion's privately owned lands. Responsibility for this program is
shared by seven Ministries, with the Ministries of Pbrestry and H:me
Affairs playing key roles. Until recently (1983) technical management of
the Regreening Program was located within the Ministry of Agriculture
under the overall policy guidance of the Minister of Agricultures. Since
1983, however, responsibility for the Re greening Program has been
transfered to the newly created Ministry of Forestry (MOP). Within the
MOP the program is under the policy direction of the Director General for
Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (Chart I). Within this Directorate
General a Directorate of Soil Conservation has been given the overall
responsibility for soil and water conservation on private lands (Chart
Through a Ministerial Decree issued in December 1983 the MOP
has authorized creation of eleven Regional Centers for Land
Rehauilitation and Conservation. On Java three centers are to be located
In the provincial capitals of West, Central and East Java. The
geographical jurisdictions of these centers are, however, not identical
to provincial administrat*ve boundaries. For exazple, the regional
center located in Semarang, Central Java, is responsible for most of
Central Java and all of the Special District of Jogyakarta whereas the
regional center located in Bandung, the provincial capital of the
province of West Java, is responsible for all of the territory in West
Java plus one district, Cilacap, which is administratively under the
jurisdiction of the provincial government of Central Java. Ihe ral'on;.l
for this territorial division advanced by the Ministry of Forestry is
that their responsibilities are properly defined by watershed rather than
administrative divisions of local government.
Subordinate to the eleven regional centers are forty
Sub-Centers for Land Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation which again are
organized around watershed rather than district government administrative
boundaries. Typically, the service area of one sub-center will cover the
territory of four .o nine district governments.  These sub-centers
(sub-BM2T), are responsible for the technical planning and guidance of
the Regreening Program.



- 41 -
CHART I
OraANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
| FORESTRY MINISTER I
- ..    _I _-
| INSPECTORATE GENERAL I                      I                    I SECRETARY GENERAL I
I DIRECTORATE GENERAL I I DIRECTORATE GENERAL  I        I                            I DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF I
| OF FOREST UTILI8A- I I OF REPORESTATION AND |         |                            | FOREST PROTECTIOti AND
I        TION        | | LAND REHABILITATION  I         I                            I NATURE CONSERVATION   I
I   I   SECRETARY OF     | I
I   I DIRECTORATE GBNERAL    I
|         I       1.   -   1-  'I      I       I
IDIRECTORAT|I I|DIRECTORATEI1 IDIRECTORATEI I DIRECTORATE| I
I   OP    I |OF REFORES-1 I OF SOIL  I IOF GREENINGI I
IPROGRAMM¢NGI I TATION   | I CONSERVA- I 1i SHIFTING I I
I  TION    I ICULTIVATIONI I
| CONTROL I I
I                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IAGENCY FOR FOREST INVENTORY I               I                     I AGENCY FOR FORBST RESEARCHI
I  AND FOREST LAND USE    I                  I                     I      AND DEVELOPMENT    I
IPROVINCIAL HEADQUIARTER OFI
I MINISTRY OF FORESTRY I
#1462 tjoyi6/19/84



- 42 -
CHART II
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DIRECTORATE OF SOIL C4NSERVATION
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
DIRECTOR OF    I
I SOIL CONSERVATION |
---------------- |ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION |
I                          I
I  ISUB DIVISIONI  ISUB DIVISION OF|  ISUB DIVISION OF|
I |OF PERSONNELI I HOUSE KEEPING I ICORRESP)NDENCE |
I                             _ _    _   _ I  ._ __                     - 
ISUB DIRECTORATE FOR |                      SUB DIRECTORATE FOR     I            I SUB DIRECTORATE FOR
IWANrERSIED MANAGEMENTI                ISOIL CONSERVATION TECHNIQUESI            ILAND UTILIZATION PLANNINGI
I                           .                                                .I
I                      _I                                                            I,,_
|       |Watershed Managementi                | _     Vegetative Techniques|                I j  Annual Crops   I
|I      I Study Section                                    S section       I          -     I       Section     |
| _______watershed Manageinentj               I _        Civil Technics    I         I _       Perennial Crops  |
I       I Planning section  I                 I          , Section         I         I             Section
lwatershed Managementi                I             Check Dam      I         I      |  Grazing Crops e
Guidance Section  I                I      I       Section    ,            I      I      Section      I
!Watershed Hydrology I                  1   *       Agro Economy    I          I      IMonitoring of Soil I
I     Section        I           I                    Section      I         '------lconservation rmple-I
Imentation Section I
#1462Atjoy t 6/19/84



- 43 -
Unlike the Ministry of Agriculture, the line of authority from
the Ministry of Forestry in Jakarta to the regional and sub-regional
level is direct. Local governments have no authority over the regional
or sub-regional centers, their budget or their personnel. This is in
direct contrast to the relationship of local governments with the service
agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture, which secund technical
agriculture personnel to work directly for provincial and district
governments. The establishment of these regional and sub-regional
centers for land rehabilitation and conservation represents
deconcentration of Ministry of Pbrestry central authority, whereas the
MaA field organization has elements of both central government
deconcentration as well as decentralization of authority to local
governments.
While the MOF and its regional and sub-regional centers are
delegated responsibility for planning and guiding the technical aspects
of the Regreening Program, the management and financing of the program is
vested with local (district) governments. They in turn direct one of
their respective agriculture technical services to be the lead
inplementing institution. The principal effect of these organizational
arrangements has been the separation of responsibility for planning from
impleenntation. Predictably, when the program runs into problems in the
field the implementors (local governments and their agricultural
services) fault the planning of Ministry of Fbrestry personnel and the
forestry planners, in turn, argue that the implementing agencies have
improperly carried out their technical plans.
At present four sets of instructions are issued annually by the
GOI to effect implementation of the Regreening Program. The first
instruction is in the form of a Presidential Decree that lays out overall
policy objectives, the aggregate budget and calls on involved ministries
to collectively Issue further policy and implementation guidance of both
a technical and administrative nature.
Subsequently, a second decree (SXB) is jointly Issued by seven
ministrles that has specific roles in implementing the Regreening
Program. The seven ministries involved in the formulation and issuance
of the SKB are ubme Affairs, Finance, Forestry, Agriculture, Environment,
Public Works, and BAPPENAS.
This SKB lays out the functional responsibilities of each
participating ministry; designates district level goverznent as the
responsible management entity for field implementation of regreening
(conservation) efforts on private lands; specifies the level and specific
uses to which the Regreening Program budget can be applied and identifies
responsibilities for planning sub-BRILT, plan approval (Governorl and
field implementation (local gove-nment along with extension staff
directly supervised by the local government and the lead agriculture
agency).



- 44 -
The t-.:- '-truction, which is a joint Nme Affairs and
Forestry decree (SSB) further details the organization and management
structure (chart IIl a & b), planning and managekent system, and
res5ponsibilities of each official down to the field level.
The final instruction is a provincial decree issued by the
Governor of each province participating in the Regreening Program. This
document further elaborates on the various Ministerial instructions and
gives greater clarity to the specific responsibilities of each
responsible officer involed in the Ragreening Program.
In suary, the present guidance issued under the various
ministerial instructions is very detailed and limiting in terms of the
specific conservation measures that can be carried out using INPRES
Penghijauan funds. Preparation of technical conservation plans is vested
with the Ministry of Forestry and are drawn up by the Regional
Sub-centers for Land Rehabilitation and Cbnaervation. Responsibility for
preparation of the annual operating plan, whLch is derived from the
Regional Sub-center's technical plan, is the responsibility of local
government, in conjunction with the lead implementing agency, which is
either the district Agricultural Service or the Estate Crops Service.
Implementation is the responsibility of the district government through
one of the technical services mentioned above. An inherent weakness of
this arrangement, beside the separation of technical planning
responsibility from implementation responsibility, is that the technical
agricultural agency charged with executing the program, has as its
primary responsibility, in the case of the Pbod Crop Service, planning
and execution of the national agriculture extension program or, in the
case of the Estate Crops service, the execution of estate crop programs
mandated by the Director General of Estate Crops. Thus, there is a
tendency for the technical agriculture service to give priority to the
programs directly under their control, subordinating the Regreening
Program, overwhich they have Limited technical responsibility, to a
secondazy position.
b* Agricultural Extension Services
Responsibilities for agricultural extension within the Ministry
of Agriculture are divided among the Agency for Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension (AAETE) and four Directorate Generals (DGs)
including Food Crops, Estate Crops, Livestock and Fisheries. In 1974
AAETZ was given the mandate as the lead agency in the field of
agricultural extension. Bowever, it has not had operational control of
the various bodies of field extension workers and has concentrated its
efforts on extension methodology, production of extension material and
particularly in managing agricultural education in high schools and
training of agricultural staff of the other DGs.



- 45 -
CUART  III.a.
ORGW4IZATIONAL STRUCTURB FOR THE GUIDANCB AND CONTROL
OF TUB RZGRBENING AND REFORESTATION PROGRAM
| GOVERNOR |
- F  -    -      _      _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Provincial Guidance  |
l        l          Team         I
|        | Bureau for Population |
| I   and Environment    I
|        | Provincial Regreening |
I |      I       Officer         |
e ~ ~  ~_                                               l  __ _.  .
r Forestry Department                                          i|strict Chief I
Provincial Level   |                                                  l
I Project Manager I                                          I Regreening Project
| Reforestation                                                     M I  Manager
I (public lands)  I                                          I   (private lands)  I
#1462Atjoy:6/19/84



- 46
CHART III.b.
ORiANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
*-m-m---i-----------------mi-n--0-um    Distriot Chief I @-     . . . . . .-. .-@    I P3RP DAS
--------------|I Regreening Officer |
N                                             I                                            I
N                                        _      I  _ _  
| Project Manager  -   - - -  - -
N                                             I                                I            I
I Treasurer ------------------
N                                       _ _ _   I                              I            S
CeSub-Disrit |                             | Implementation I
_______________           I                   Officer Chie                        ' _-_-_-_-_-_- - -
N                                             I    ,                           s            u
N                                                  T                           *      
*                                             I    '                   |  Pegreening    |
N             _, .                                                       E xt:enuion Agent | 
Asst. Treasurer  …-------------1                              n    *
N                                             I                              I    ,     
Village Chief  |                           I Implementation  |
I  ekad, LKMD   I==,==inininI=a"=sW---1 Farmer's Groups |…
I(Village council)|                                    |                    -
.. .. ... .. . .. .. .
nI                                            I                                   S
Hinm=minininm*-----wininininu.inu3=    =In  Farmers I . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Informations
P3RPDAS - Project Planning and Guidance for neforestation         Project Managers are:
and Regreening of Watersheds.  P3RPDAS new name:                 1  Chief, Agriculture Level II
SubrCenter for Land Rehabilitation and Conservation              2. Chief, Estate Crops Level 1I
3. KPHif 
Lines Information:
1.               Command line                                     4   -*-*-*-*-.  Consultation
2. - ; - -                                                                 - - - coordination/Evaluation lne  5.- -Guidanoc and Technical Assistance
3. -'---->---w"- Inspectlon/Audit                                 6  ------------- Operational Coordination
7. . . . . . . E Extension
*l462Atjoy:6/19/84



- 47 -
Operational control of the extension services remains within
the four DGs. This control has recently been reconfirmed under
Presidential Decree No.24fl983 in which Directorates of Extension were
created in all four DGs of the Ministry of Agriculture. The overwhelming
majority of the extension foz=e is under the DG of Food Crops which
currently employs about 23,000 extension staff, 15,000 of whom are PPLs
who are stationed in the field. Other DGs such as Estate Crops,
Livestock and Fisheries have a very small number of extension agents,
numbering 8,000-12,000; 1,000-2,000; and 1,000 respectively. Also the
extension personnel from these offices are highly specialized in fields
such as coconut production, artificial insemination, poultry or
production of fingerlings. For the most part, they are stationed and
work out of the district capital. At the same time, their geographic
areas of responsibility are frequently not the same as the administrative
boundaries of the district governments. Unlike the Food Crops extension
service, the others operate more directly under the management of the
particular programs and projects for which they are employed.
DG Food Crops' major role in agricultural extension dates back
to 1965 and the inauguration of the BIMAS program (see Chart IV). The
BIMAS program was established to take advantage of the new
seeds/technologies available for wet rice production and actively
supported the expansion of Food Crops' extension service to transfer
these improved technologies. This history has significantly shaped the
development of this extension service. The majority of their activities
have necessarily focured on wet rice production areas and administration
of the extension service has been the responsibility of the BIMAS program.
The present system of extension under the DG of Food Crops
operates through rural extension centers (RECs) that cover working
areas. Each service from one to several subdistricts. The REC is
-anaged by two mid-level extension workers (PPMs), one in charge of
program planning and the other the chief administrative officer. A team
of 10 to 12 field extension Jeorkers (PPLs) operates from each REC. In
the lowland areas one PPL typically services 800 hectares of irrigated
land, or roughly 3000 farmers. In the non-irrigated areas, the ratio of
PP$ to farmers is to be significantly higher.
In summary, the extension service developed by the DG of Food
Crops has developed a well defined system of extension and has set up a
nationwide network of rural extension centers that reachs about 50% of
the faxmers, most of whom own and operate irrigated rice lands. The weak
link in this system, particularly with reference to this project, is that
the Food Crops extension agents have not established close ties with
other extensions services including those working with the national
Regreening Program.
Over the past few years, considerable discussion has taken
place regarding appropriate measures which should be taken to address
this weakness and achieve the unification of the extension services.
Recent legislation provides for close coordination of extension



dcart IV                                          -AS-
Oruanisation oT mtaneion sarvice
(lrood Crops$
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             I   3 1 A  
| DIR CSOR 043ML  | 
| MFOD CROPS       |r|| aXd of the 
I__ _ _ _ _  _                                                     I                                    I  h a d o tli   I
,~~~~~ ~~~      ~        ~        ~      ~~~~~~~ _ -  -                                                           Er.
|   | |        | | Dlractori II  Dlretor  I||  Dir etor   |                                           |
Director | I  Dlrector  | |  ra m            |   Plrnt    I I    Land         I                  I          | Director        |   |  Director   I   I    Dlrector
____o_r_nI I Production I I Buslness I I Protection I I Oevelo nt I                               I          I Agr. Training I   I Agriculture |   I Staft rWaning.
I          I   X Rduc4tion   |   |  Iztenuion   I   I and Educatla I
AgrLiultural I        I  RI. Agr.                 R |  ag. Agr.
L  I    I  Secondary    |       | Infoaation               i  n-service
Prov. Inspector   - ------ - - - -                                                      |  - -chools       Contor ininr  Cnterol
1      DOWCA        1                                                    |       |   (Sp")         1
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - - - - -- -- - - - -
|Cl    ||Cct || a f | Chlot Subdinl| I                                           Ijj il |
| Subdin  |l   ubdin            s | ubdin      I      Plant     I   I   Land        |   |    bdin   |
|Progrr  I |Produetloni Ir,  8;elnerul   I Lrotoctton    I l>"o                 nt I   I Extenclon |
I  abuptn  Cht-1  - - - - - - - ---------------------------------
Aaric. Service1
Chief Se  | I        Chief 80co|.           Chief Lee. | | Chief ieco   |
|_Production I   I ra m   ueolnen |I  IPlant Protectionil   I   ateneio    I
-F4ca-t-n
I Hantri Partanian  I            |   PR    I        FP       I   I  PPM   I
|  IPlC)  |         iI (|PRC) |
Co_san4 Line
- - - - - -  Coordination Line
11462A,joya6/19/04



- 49 -
activities among the DGs. Under the decree of the Minister of
Agriculture 664/1979, an advisory working group hasl been set up at the
central level and forums of extension coordination (FPPP) established at
the provincial and district levels.  Following the uEvergreenu workshop
on the subject in October 1982 at which all DGs and AAETE participated,
two important decision were taken as steps in the direction of
unification. First, RECs were identified as the focal point for
extension activities of all the DGs. Second, all DGs were requested to
utilize to the maximum extent possible the nationwide network of farmers
groups organized by local governments as part of the DG Food Crops
extension system.
In a separate effort, the responsibilities of BIMAS, under
Presidential Decree No.62/1983, have been expanded to embrace all DGs in
the MOA. As a consequence, the head of BINAS, in addition to
adainistering the DG nbod Crops extension staff, will take over the
administration of the extension staff of the other three DGs over the
next twelve months.
c. SUFS Assessment
The existing management system responsible for the Sustained
Upland Farming System component has two critical weaknesses: The current
structure has a high degree of centralization and corresponding
standardization and a high degree of fragmentation in the delivery
systems responsible for supporting improved upland farming systems.
A major objective of the Upland Agriculture and Conservation
Project is to assist the Government of Indonesia achieve its ains to
decentralize and unify management of its ongoing upland agriculture and
conservation programs. The proposed management and organization
structure of the UAC Project seeks to accomplish this on the one hand by
delegating responsibility for the management of the SUFS activities to
the district level. On the other hand a unified extension system is
proposed, using the RECs as the operational level focal point and FX2Ps
II as the forum for coordinated planning.
The above refinements in the existing management system for
SUFS activities are new and untested. What is proposed, however, does
not constitute a radical reorganization of existing governmental
structures  Rather, it represents a new and potentially more effective
strategy for using existing systems. The GOI, IERD and USAID all expect
that, as experience with the management system is gained, modification in
both organizational structure and process may be required.
4. Agricultural Research
The sajor responsibility for the development of technology for the
rainfed upland areas.of the upper river watersheds lies with the Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD). This agency already
has a program for research and development on watersheds and, under its



- 50 -
umbrella, there are nine other proposed or active faxning systems
projects. AARD has collaborated with watershed projects in the Citanduy
and Solo river systems and in Yogyakarta. These faming systems studies
have been directly useful within the project areas but have also provided
methodology and experiences for more comprehensive research. In
particular, research with cropping systems, bench terraces and forage
management have provided the technological base for expansion programs
for soil and water conservation. These initial and limited efforts also
provide the background needed for further research.
AARD is at present finalizing an overall administrative system for
all these research activities and the system will be applicable to the
research component under the UAC Project. With specific regard to the
UACP, a Project Management Unit will be established with a team of five
specialists appolnted by the head of the agency to provide technical
support and leadership in their areas of expertise. The PMU will receive
support from the relevant research centers in its implementation of
project activities.
Further details on the administrative analysis will have to wait
for the finalization of the re-organization of AARD.
5. Traininq
The training components of the project will be centered in Jakarta
and managed by a full-time project officer. This centralized management
is necessary given the large number of possible institutional sources of
training which are, in most cases, not located in the project area. Each
province and participating district will be expected to identify its
training requirements annually. The Project Training Officer and an
Interagency Training Committee will assist both provincial and district
authorities in formulating their respective training needs and plans and
will subsequently be responsible for identifying appropriate institutions
to carry out the training. As much as possible the training will be
field oriented and carried out within the project area whenever possible.
6. Roads
Two government agencies will be involved in the implementation of
the roads component, the Ministry of Manpower and the district Public
Works Office (PU). The PU will have primary responsibility for the
design of the roads and for working with the district Project Management
Unit on plans for the location of the roads. The Ministry of Manpower
offices at the district level will be responsible for the management of
the road construction. This strategy builds upon the existing strengths
of the two agencies and will be an effective means for implementing this
component.



A N N E X III
APAC APPROVAL CABLE (83 STATE 252824)



3
.  2         ~~UNCLASSIIZ(:E2fl                                            ?X
ACTIC                                                       ACTION CoC
:IC: DIS! 2e   65
I -  CZ   A0137                                                 0! SEP E3    gIe
pp juFEjA                                                     CN: 3ess/
JE 2UPEBC &2S24/01 24E1507                                    CERG: j     7
jNR    UDUU   ZZE        e                                      DIST: A/
P 2214522 SEP E3
yi SICSTAI! WASEDC
J)TC AMIEMEASSY jAKARTA PRIORITY 7233
UNCIAS                     STATE 252824                           To  Ac: infoI
AIZAC                         /-OFFICIAL  FILE  DID
FILEL
0 O. 12       NEe:  ./A                                       
TAGS:                                                          MCT
' SUIJECI  FPLAND ACRICULTURE AND CONSERIATION-                         - I  I 
FRCJICT (4 c7-eq12) PID APAC REVIEW                           IFI  - _ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LII
,REFS: (A) STAIE 234173 (1 STATS 20SE34                         iFIRFA 
RD-
POP
1.  5UwMAR!:  SUEJECT PIZ WAS REVIEWID PT APAC ON AJGUST  ,    -   -
,11. ISS3.  USAIr '.AS  EPREMSENTED El DOUGLAS TINSIER.          iEH- 
PIB WAS AP?R0VED AND rISSION WAS AUTHORIZED TO ApvOVE   'ENRiT
PP. SU!;'tCT TO FCLIOUINtG. POINTS C^1 ISSUES PEING            sTE-
| _} EP.$ISskC;- I N.   ISOLVED DURING THE COURFE OF PROJECT     - -t
S DES<IGN.                                                       :N
J 2.  DEIAITED rISCUSSION:                                      JAUR
!                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF-W   I_ _
A.APAC _ISCUSSID UBET8ER PROPOSID PROJECT VAS PALLIA1I1°-
) .ATRER T:A:  WEALING VITE TEE BOOT CAUSE OF TEE PROILEM                   -
I.E. PCPUIATIO.N PX?TSSURF AtED TEE Riv!SUITART CULTIVATION       -
UP-?PE  VATF?S'¢- -AvLAS X!APF_RC?RIAT-4 T_ FR AG3ICULTUBI.
MISSION RT P ACKHOLEDGED TEAT THE PRCPOSED FROJECT VILL
IjNC  SOIVE T!AT BASIC PROBLEM BUT RATBER WILL R!3DCCE SOII               _
-IEOSION P.ND INCPEASSE ?ROlUC?IVITT OF uPiAND FARMs, A,
NECE:SSARY bART OF DONG RANGE STP.ATIGY WRICOX MUST INCLUDT
i&PAtSO0 ONSF-F A.} AM 3EPLOYMENT. FIRTIIITLRDIUCTION AN4D
iOUT-MIWRIA 1 ION.                                                   [M  6
. APAC AG.REED PP MESI PR.ESENT 'EOEOUGE MiACP.O- ART,
*M ICRC-  ECONOMIC ANALYSES TO DEMONSTEAT! F3ASIZILITy IN
.E?.rs 0  1ENETI'IS AKE COSTS AT TEE 7AP LEVEL AS WElL AS  ACIO CPY
1CNG-TEUM CONSS!RVATION PENIFITS TO rPLAND AND LOWLA,ID          ACTION
I  ,ASIN AREAS AS' A iWEO'E.  IT VAS R-CCGN12ZlD ET TIHE AP1AC t;      - 
TEAT LPIIAND EYAPM!P.S WILL NOT ADOPT APPECP.IATE rETEODS
,     UNLESS T--! AR!v YINANCIALLY ATTRACTIVE AND HAVE AlREPDYI.I| 
)7j EN: PFCUt .S TIA21,1 TOG A REAlSONAELi nTE1N.  T-EE CON-    -.,   ,;l    #
t   SERVATION ANJD PROrUC1ION .ACAGES DEVELOPED UNDIER TRIS
!PCJFCT TSA&LD TA.  TEIS INTO ACCOUNT AND  RTE EX?PCTEr  ay:                 e*'
I ItACTS OF CO;SEiV.'311ICN PRACTICES ON PRODUCTIVI?T  AND      P= r:Jbir  Ti C  ;.
'cC I-;cZC.    suouLr  sE AnimiSSmt IN TR PS .
C.  LAND T-E:VRT-  S7CuI:! IS IMPORTANT IN ^OI1AINING
!   2        V NCIA --SS!!IID                     STA.TE  252E24jl1



2          DNCLA.SSI IID                       STATE  252-24/01
Ax AECW.&E IC-PT PARTICIPATION IN CO?.PIE-ING CON'SERTA-7ICX
Ai r F; ItzP.lIN  ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATIE V!ITF TEE PROJECT.
THIS ASPrCT O  T'El TPRJZCT SEOULE HE FULLY EXPLAINED IN
TEE PP.  APAC NO6TD A NDMIER OF DIRECT AND INDIRECT
IMNITICIARIES OF TRY PROPOSED PROJECI cET QUE5TIONED ITS
IMPACT ON TRE IANZ LESS. MISSION REP Et.7LAINED THAT I?
¶THE CONSRVTATION 1EYORTS ARE SUCCESSFUL, GREATER AMOUNTS
CF FUHIIC LAWMES III !E AVAILAHIE TO TlI LANDLESS F2P.
cZ.3.SSTS  CR I:ANIMAL GRAZING. TEE PROJT!C% WIIL ALSO ?PO IDi
C?EEIT TO THH LA3DLESS.  APAC REOUESTED Tal  TEE ?ROJzXI
DEAL WITE THE ILNDLESS WITH INTERVENTIONS TAILORED TO
THEIR SP'ECIYIC NEEDS A!1I FELT THAT TEE FP SSOULD DEFINE
TIE EST!IATED NUMPEP. OF 2!NFICIARIIS IN T;R.S OF BOW
TXEE  ARE IMPACTSED, E.G., DIRECT, INTIRMEDIATE AND
INDIRECT.
D.  APAC AGFRE!E THAT TlHE IBP.D'S ?PARTICIP?IION IN THEt
PPOPOSED PROJECT SEOUID BE CON!-11M3D IN TEE PP &ND TE.A^
T s I NATURE ANID EXTENT CF AID/I}RD CCO--DINATION CLARIFIED.
TEE rIISSICN IS ENCOURAGED TO EXPLORE A SOME:EAT GRE}ATER
ITED FINANCING R1OLS IN THE CREDIT COrPONEhT OF THIS
i  PROJECT.
F.  APAC REeU'SIX1D TEPT THE PP EXIPIN PO' ANT T5 WHA'T
*XTENT TEIS ?PFOJECT COUID BE REPLI.ATED TO OTHER APEAS OF
It%DCxESIA. MISSION REP nESPONDiD TRAT TEE PROPOSED
PROJECT  OULL HAVE  IElMENTS WIICH COULD  'S EEPLICATED, IF
TCU>;r SUCCESSTDL, SUCH AS TEE: DECEiNTPALIZDt APPROACE TO
:  FPCJECT IM'PLEMiENTATION AND TEE COOR.INATION MECEANISM
t EVETOFED 1-IVWEEN GCI, I2RD AND AID.
T.  A,AC RE-QUESTEI; T?AT TEE PP EXPLAIN uOW TEE PROJECT
;I1' SERVE TEE tIATOGUE ON T_- r7VELCIOPMENT O  NATIONAL'
REGICNAL POLICIES FOR UPIAND AGRICULTU3RE/'ATERSHEID
rEVEICPM1NT ANT CONSERVATION.
I
C.  APAC WIS INTERESTED IN ECf TFE   OJ"CT WOUL1) PROVID3
FCR MAXIMUM INVOIVELiMNT OF TEr PRIVATE SECTOR FOR SUPPORT
CY TFE IM?I:EMENTATION OF THIS PROJECI. MISSION REP
SlA-TA   TEAT IT WAS TEE ITENT7IOY OF ITE MISSION TO
INVESTIGAT7  PRIVATE SECTOR INVOLVEMENT IN AREAS OF SEED
C7RTIFICATION, NURSERISS, INPUT SU?PIIES AND ESXT-t!SION
ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT. REP INTICATED
TEl ZITENT CT TR17ATE SECTOR IN1OLV'EM-'T CN THIS PROJECT
WAS A MATTFR O  DISCUSSION 'WITE THE GOI, BUT TSE MISSION
-4'0DIE !E PARTICULA31T INTERESTED IN ERA.AINS PRIV-TE      *
SICTC2 XURSERIES INTO THE PROJECT. APAC SVIG-ST!D TEAT
THERE MIV-T El A ROLE FOR PRIVATE INEORMAL CREDIT
!NSI1TUT-TONS Y ITEIN THE CREDIT CCMPON7NT OIF THE PROJECT.
PCCCP-INrG Y, MISSION SHOULD En?lO?E PR50?ECTS FOR S!CE
:PRIVATS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS TO ?AP.RICI?ATz rN TEE
PFOJECT, AND INCC2FORATE CONCIUSIOilS IN TPE PP.
92E-24
!;'AN Ii
--      liN'~Ci;.SSTITI!                    S TATE    :coP



UNCLASSIYIEr                      STATE  5529e 2
B. APAC WAS INTERESTED IN TEE ROLE CRrDIT PLAYS IN TEE
PIOJECI, PhITICULARL! HOW TEE PROJECT ALDRESSES T3E ISSUE
OF !STABLISEING A S!IF-SUSTAI'4ING CREDII YACItITY AND POW
SUISIBIZEL AGRICULMTUE CREDIT FROM OTEER SOURCES MIGHT
COIG"ITE  ITE DEMANDS FOR TEE CREDIT PROVIDED UNDER TRE
)PRCJECT. MISSION REP STATED TEAT T3E CREDIT SNVISIONED
UNDER TEE PROJECT IS NOT TEE TrADITIOKA1. SHORT-TERM
AG!ICUITURAL CREDIT PRESENTLY AVkILAPIE PUT A MORE
) FLZIMLI, IMPLICITLY LONGER-TERM CR:E1T ESTABlISEED UM1Df
TEE  IX/2/CD  NETWORK.  IN TEIS REGARE, IT IS EXPERIMENTAL
I  NATUIRE. APAC NOTED THAT PID DID NOT SPECIT! THE
IMFPIE!NTING AGENCY, ALTEOUGE TEE RKX AJAONG OTHERS, WAS
MENTIONED AS UNDER REVIEW. -APAC CONCLUIED THAT AS TEE
CREIZT PROGRAM IS PITOTAL TO TEE SUCCESS OF TEE PROJICT,
A CAPEIUI ANAITSIS O  TEE ROIE AND POTENTIAL OF THIS
PROGP.AM BE INCIUDED IN THE PP AS WEIL AS TEX
JUSIIFICATION OF TEE IMPI.Et:TING AGEWCY.
I. APAC NOTID TPAT IrRD/GOI lWOULD PE FINANCING THE
CCNSTRUCTION 0  PCCESS ROADS. E'-VEN THIE DESIGN',
MATERIALS USID AND TEE PROCEDU3R7 EMPLOYED. TEESE ROADS
ICOULD EXACIRTATE TEE DEGRADATIOT; C-F T ::I' JVIRONMET.
* P.P. SEOULD ANALYZE TEBESE IMPACTS Cl'SEIT. FURTEER.
AS TEE ROADS ARE BUILT TO ?ROVIDE EtN ACCESS T3
AVAILABLE MrAlKTS FOR REGIONAL GOCDS, AHE! ALSO PRorIDF
*PN EASIER METEOD TO MARKET GOODS AND SvRVICES COMING
.INTO TBE REGION. THE COMPARATIVE AEVANiTAGE ENJOYED
IT TEE UPLAND FARMERS FOP SEIECTED CROPS MA! DISAPPEA?
-DUE TO AVAILAIILITY OE CROPS PRODUCED B? LOWLAND FARMEF.S
MAit!TID B! WA! OF TEES- NU ACC_SS ROADS. APAC FELT
ITEAT TEE PP ECONCMIC ANAIYSIS SEOULD TAXE TEIS INTO
A CCG'U!CI
J. APAC WAS CONCNEI: TEAT T7_ P'D DI% NOT INCLUDE
PRCVVIION TOR OPIRATION AND MAINTENANCE O! TEE
CONSERIATION/FARMING FLOTS, ACCESS ROADS. ETC.  APAC
IEMIETES TEAT 0 AND M SEOULD BE ADDRIESSa D I ;L
I INCLUDING POW THIS WCUL-D r}E FINANCED, AND WHEO WOULD sE
RESPONSIBL-.
.K.  CLCSEI! LINEiD TC J. ABOVE. APAC NO¶!D THAT MANT
I?IPIUMENTATION DELAYS RESULT TROM LACK OF GOI !LDGETART
AVAILIAILITIES. APAC STRESSED TEAT F? SHOULD ANAlTZE
TB! POTENTIAL CONSQOUENCES OF ?._DUCED GOI CONTRIDBTIONS
TO TBE PlOZECT AND OUTLINE POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS.
IT.  APAC CONCLUDE; THAT. ALTLOVGE TEE PID DESCRIMED TE-
PPCCSED FROJECT ALS PEAS! I CY SOMF IARIER E1FORT, TEZ
R0OJECT SHOULD BE DSIG.N13D AND CONSITERED AS A DISCRETE
;SET7-CCNTAINED PROJECT. T"E= O-Ji-CTIMES, AS STATED IN TEE
PIE. SECUIZ SE OTIAINAPLE WITEIN TEE PROZECT PACD AND
AIr SEOULD NOT !I COMMITTED ZVTN' I!,PLIC-L-r TC CONTINUE
-IN THIS PROJECT  MZEONM THAT PGINT.
M.  APAC AGREED T21T TEE PROJECT S73OULrj    AUTFCR1ZED IY
$TE MISSION OK T'BE UND-ESTANDING TEAI THE P7"jECT, S
:           llUNCLASSIFIED                     STATE  2!2S24';O2



*-XCIASSITIDS                      STAT!  25zs24ie2
DLESIGNiD. WILL 3! CONSISTENT WIT! ASIA 3UwEAU GUIDMLIIZS
CH RAIITIZ AGRICULTURE AND WILL RESOIVE T.VE ISSU!S
AN1/O0l INC0POIATF. TE'POINTS RAISED AROYE. IN
*ACCOZANCf-CiIIT  T?nSI GUIDELIE4!5 PTR RIFTEL 3T PP NEE'D
TC I:3ctDE TBOROUGH SCCIAL SOUINIDT!SS, ANALYSIS. IMARKET
£'lETSIS AND EIZIEC! OFT HIOST COUNTRY Comm9ITmENT.
3.  APAC APRMECIATES INPUTS OF DOUGIIAS TINLF. AT REVIEW.
HIS UND)ERSTANDING IND -TOUGL1FIL INSIGIFTS ASSIST"D ALL IP
APEi3CIATING PROELEMS OF ARND OPPO3TUNITIES FOR UPLANlD
AG2ICUIlTrz PKL CONSzRvAIiom IIx INDONESIA. MISSION IS
AUTECRIZIE TO PROCEIT WITH E1EVLOPM7N. CT TEE PROJECT
EPA r.   SBTUITZ
IT
#2E024
NNUN
UXt: CLASSIXIED                    STFATE  25i2.-4!lZ



AN N E X IV
LOGICAL FRAMEWORX



#34OlAijoyi 6/1/84
VRQJGCT DESIGN SU$NAIt
CUCO ICAC FRlWiJK~
Project  litlel Upland Aariculture and OInservatton Prolect I llags I
I                         ~~~~~~~~I                                                         I                                                      . .I
NARRATIVE SUHIAtR          O|IJCTIVILI IRIflALE INDICATORS                                      M EANS Of VERIFlCAtION   I           HPORTANT ASSUKTIOS              I
I                                       _(-I                                                                                             I
I   _  Ur Hcctot Wall te           measures of Coal A__ *_evea_* nt2 (A-I)                         I (-3)                         A sumptions for Achieving goal           |
I occtiee_to which ehl             I                                                                 I                            I ternet.; (A-4)
I         c eontrbteI$ (A  L
| To sustain aiid emilance tho     | Percent of uplands in sustainable productive use                  L Land eepebility           I that other development pollees         I
I producttve capacity of           | (forest, elvipasture, estate crops or privately                   a xnd use statLatLea.        a end activities of the COI relevant   I
J Java's uplaeds through           | profitable, but ecologically stable, annual cropping            I Haisuramenta of            | to this area (e.g., populatlon           I
Improved menagesent of             Systems).                                                       I sedimaentation rates.    | control, transulgretlon, aff-farm    I
omil nitd wator resoures.                                                                                                          e  ploynnt seneration) will be
I  I                                                                I                            I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~effectively carried out. 
I   _ _ _  _    _    _    _    _ .    _ _    _    _    _    _    _    _ _    _    _    _    _   _ .  __        _    _    _    _    I  _ _  _    _    _    _    __             I
Project Purposel (S-1)           | GonditLone that vill indicate puroose has been                     L-31                        Assumptions for achievins purpoas 
s chieved,                                                                                    C    . 
1. To expnid and Ilpi ova        I  Dy end oft  hase I.e.             By end of Phase l.b.
inatlttitional capaities,         (36 months from mati.-                       (year 6)           I
I  primarily at provincial,        I faction oft  sjo  CFO)|
district and fare levels        I                                                     -                                        I
to expert.eilt wIth               I.e. decentralimed, Inter    l.x. decentrslid ioter    I - Annual assesseente.   I - That Covxrneent VIII utilise the   |
I  alterintivo approachers              ageny plaening system          asency planning system        I - Project evaluation.   I  uonaeent system described Is the  I
to upland frming and            I   in place and functioning         fulLy functloning and        I                            I  Project Paper.                          I
to apply thtee approaches;          with annual plans produ-         elther expanded or           |
fcd for project years I-        ready to erpand into         I                            | - That Government will provido the
I                                  I   111 and compreheneive            broader pheoe It prog-    I                               I neceasamy manpover.
I   plan produced for yearc         ram in both test and         |                            I                                           I
I   IV - VII                        Central Java provinces;   I                               I                                           I
|  I.b. unified budget systen   l.b. GOI prepared to1
I   In plAce and routinely          iaitiate broad phase I t                                 I                                          I
I functioning utilixriw           program utiLising Uni-       III
OMIT as e  insle tIWtlS         fied, decentralized          I
I ystool                          budettaiina  preetleed||
funcIioning  itili.i,~          progra th is projectl
I l.e. lRteresene1 district    I.e. CUI prepared to
|                        |  ~~~~~~~~gulddc. tee-e and        lnttlate broadly based       |
Project Hanagament Unite             thase 11 prosgra  utili-   |
u         t     (FMW) routinely planning  sing, decenttelilcd
Iaend uen. gir projeetl           and interpgency project
,              |                                   *^~~~~~~~~~~~~mnagement concepts as
I                         ~~~~~~~precticod In this
I                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~project;                                    
_                                        ____   _.____                                                                                          ___ 



I      NARATItW SUIART           i            OUJCTIZLY WRIFUtALI INDZICATRS                   I aIANS OF VUIIVLCATtON  i           IHORIANT ASIWTIOUS            1
| i.d. Upi and intewgecy        I.t. Up and p.lyv.le.t        I                          i
exteaslon teore  ffe -aten propse. has                                                   1 |
tively elanaotw and            proewa  tefective la        I||
*oeuutir< Coeprehen-          diesrnntatill Improved
mnle fteld program la         technology through pro-
tagleted oubwatersbodec       duttiwe lateraetion
|                                 with tearmer eonserva-
I                  ttea rewves                l~~~~~~~ I
l       m.e. recr groups      10.: Nethotdoleate gte   at-
IdI           c    ynzle-         tively   ctn&       or tam -  oa-
ally funotio.loa1               unitie Is lotorSaettn
process ol divelipoe t
I                        t~~~~~~~n eenJunctloa with  I
I                                 local goversuent lave
proveoffective and
lectituttesi frameworkL
an process n te to a n
l                                                  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oth fam*eoffiuity
I                                 s        and local gvferl nmaa                                                                  I
msat to move lato rxpsn- 
dad pkaee 1I praires       I
ilvolvig wtoject              reeod of private con-
Managemnt biuri               trecterse univereitic. 
prlrvte contractor,           and loundatioam  In eel-
umolversities and                laborateia with local
I   foudatioas to provide         comunitieoer of   U. In
I   supporting servleso           providing tevices to C
resea          etb  Ote. Oan     varrant judgwent that
I routi: basis to                 suck collborative                       I                                                     I
I project end portite-          *cetlon cam be suboton-     ||;
patios coenittes3            tinly expanded durtag    |                             I
nameIII 
I 1.g. Evid4oce that prepgga    1 g.  ublic information 
I  bce crested public             progresaeae/poign|
c moaectoucnees conceriat         rotinely Informing          I
|   uplnaA productivity end       pubiic an uplaod osri-    |
eeaoeervation issues and      culture and soil and
I  cerrective  etieon             wter cncerv,ation
".as.te l                                                                                       I



.3
|       NMKATIVI *UWA                         OE.JC IILT VIPIFIARLI 114ICATORS                    "RAW  of YEICATWON               IN    AT  UI
j                                     I                                 .               -- -       .I   _          -  -I_.I
|I.b. Project 11nageaumt       I.b. A atrong capacity  tor  |
I                                  I.E oef atios systeme            for execution and                                     I                                        I
I   ti  plce an4 functiu nitoo    gart of evaluatiao
asu pleer"4.                    coeacwh exists at
proj et and province
le"l tA1 evidence sew-
otektl tbrou-h this
effort hoe eutabliuhed
tbari la part for pro-
*  |                 t                                  ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toirg phase It.                   
| 2Incrosse COI tachwieal        12. FI        system field       2. Ienear     e      ha has                                                                      I
aapacity and  arebireh laboratory *ad out-                       eetablelhed a dLveril-    |                           |                                        I
proesse  n  oateh *yetei-    I     e . etc teis plee            tied rane. o@  profit-
ticlly,  an am a cati-          en4 tunettoniw  and             eble, but aeologlcally
nucus basil, lprove the        Ilitill results                  stable technologies for
iolo ocl ead soeLo-              comas  on stream.               upland comunitIeI
|  ecooesl teuneattoo                                             t Ielu41wg iuLttel
I  related to upland tainag    I                                    results on tree crops/
l   contittone on Java.          I                                  alvipasture technology.
Project Outpute L      nC-l e    I anitude of Otputs  (C-2)                                                            I Aaiue"tliae for achievina  outmutel
my eI el A       le                 my ande4 e f     Ie      I b
1   zAwn  S1t              | t6 soothe fromye 
ag4eentri11eg  a" UU91r        _"asttw  *o10r CFO)
nagament and budgetary
systems in place and tuac-      la. Policy guidence and        la. (anageusnt System           Annual saueruaente.       - tequate delegations of authority
tioning which provides  the       regslatlona In place           lnternaitsed into            Project evaluatleo.         to the provincial and distitet
tintitutlonal framework           wbich authodse nad define  eprovicial manaOGemet          I                             goeermeats.
mad uengoae.nt proceeree      I   the etructure end proes    qettee and routinely           |                            -  uppart from relevast Hitlatrtes.  |
for effactlvely eutending         of deeeatrallted and uul-    applied to all districte  |                               - Acceptence of reuponubilltty and
to upland communitiee lnfor-   ifled aanageaent at the           province widul                                           autbhrity by the proviaen and
I    t:o: , technology a Loputs   preoiciul, district end                                                                 districts.
required for the diffusion        field lenlea                                              I                          I                                        I
I  A austained application of                                                                                                                                      I
|  acolgesally eteble upland                                    I                                            I
farmina systete technoloy.  |
lb. A uitfied budgetaay       lb. Budgetary eysea|
§  I  qetes le place and     Internalized Into overall
|w|    tioalng under the          budgectig processe an
|entrol and management        routinely applied to all
of district gsvermamtete      dittrlete, province widel



|  hUMlVS SWIIttHMt                    OBJCtLWLT VSRIVIAUIS INDICATORS                        I4ANS OF V1URIFICATIUN  |          INIORTANIT AISUHIfNS
Il. Interarency District          la. Ianageaent system
II    Ildaerg  Teoae (WOT) and     intaernaeled   toete
r aCet Hanag"ect Unilts        peovincial xaaagent
I   ) eatablished and          syatems snd routinely
It teming in gour              applied In all distrites
dptroctot  pvldenead byt   province wLde
preperatton of annual
prjc   lans and btldates
tuaeationeent plaa
feer prrJet years IV-VIg
-  ateSct^lec of 13Rf1UA                                   |
presrez and *2P PreO&u AN
Intoeoverall proJect uenee I
*lnt ztrueeUre & synt4sl
id. staff of 22 participating
t3EVIUC have receIved
I   appropriate traintin  dad
planning and sataite of
the Surs Plot Projectel
2.    ieerot   S  tema    I 2e. Oac fieldlaboratory &   2. n effective farming                     Annual asene.unt.         I - sufficient and able staff ad           I
Poerclel |*outech  ttoe developing    yste    rese h eepeelty  I ProjOct Sveluetn     |tlanctoe carrq out tbf  proltee.|
a comprel,ensivo program           and field testing farming        existing and to routinely |                              |- Nothodoloy that moves results to
o fupland teruing :ytea            uyste:e technology innlu         de.loepinr  Improved and                                   efarmers fields ivthla PACO.
applied cosetca h designed         dtng eouponenta focused onl   lisproned technolostlte                                         InvtlCutioLtenaltetieeO et taMLa       I
to Improve asisting and            eOlilfwater eenrersutton and   for field application.                                        systems reaeeeth by AARD.
develop new technolosies.    I   anagaexti ecropping                 o ic-
toena  livestock, tree cropa
and eililpaeture and eoclo-
sconoc *wevaluation.
2b. Tho acceptance of reco-                                    I                            I
I  mendatlons developed by the                                  I                            I
I  researcb.                                                    |                            I                                          |
I                                                               I                                                                       I
I _ _  _  _      _   _      .                           -    -    -__ _ _ _ _ __            .  _                            _  ______



!A|RPATIVi  UHl^tR        |            OUECTtWLY SW4MIRL  IVICAVU                             HHVS or   IPtCAT I                   TS         t niu         
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _.AN ___                                           ___VCAW .                                   NOTN  AINFI
3. Suitslnbhle Uplond              3. Suitolnable Upland            3. tustaineble Upland
FI r l $Ytm5      lOt           Iymints "  Pilot               i       toecrt fttes ilot t
I  Nang..Aent/dmlivtry               a. Up to three (3) OPP           a. An estoblished prog-   |  Annual assI*eoeuts.          I - Ttat better technology Is avell-
I  systems esteblished for         I  baded mini vatereltad            can and proess. in place      Project evaLuatiosn.    I  *ble of can be developed according
I  the ditfualon of farming        I   utainable farntrg               whlich has introduced        |                           I  to the project plan .
I   ystato  technology to          I  system pilot projects            project supported cor       I                            I - That loatmer  ill acePt the           I
I  upland communities.                to place In each of the          servotioe and produe-        |                           |better technology. 
(4) four participating           tiwity incroeasng tech-   I                              I - That the required inputs will be   |
districts which includo:         nology an approxiumtely                                     avallable as planaed                   |
23 000 htec. equally                                      - Sutfictent and able staff ad           I
a *woteorzhd developeait      divided 0between tho pro-                                   ftuincing to carry out the progt. I
pla  and preogruam             vinces of Central ad        |                            | - Timely pre-financing by 001.          I
I                                   last Jav& $                                              I - Farmers adopting the Improved         I
| I                                                             I                            I  practiese will be is ecatigteus 
*   I irrigated nurseries                                    |                            | gtoups.                                 I
I                                  I    ootobltohad                                                 I                           I                                          I
I                        I    *~~~~~~~nd properly dlotrlbutod|                                                     
amon  8 participeting
district which produce
sufficient grase/lesume
| production to soot deool                                    |I 
| *stel.ted at 700 lb.pr Ip
| district at 2,eoo hletarsr 
proWcan in place and|
functitoning which produece                                I                                                                      I
Igood seed for distrtib-                                   |
I    tion uodsr the program
|    sufficlent to meot demand                                  |
|    *etimated at 700 Ha. per                                   I
I    district or 2,e00 hectares r                               |
overall                                                     1
I  C up to five strategically                                   i
I |                                |    located Demon"tration                                       |
I     ams of + 1O hfe.eh                                        | 
|    i  each woterohedl                                         I                            |
I        ___                           1  _     __               ___                          __               __                   I   _     _     __               _



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
6~~~
I       NesARPAIZW  IuNa           I           OIzcnECrLu    WUIMAILS INDICAUS                       KRA 0S     U VIRIIICAtION          DiIORIAJT AIPUUUCUU
* pilet appfoachae te           * lstltutlieelie.d         |
eo_u«lty       mS"s  ol     fese@   Is plae of                               
upland reacurue  eOecutod    rtoc.t ve:  pecte io-
Is selected dietiette          making betueen upland                                  I
whlh utiltee a rewre of        eo_unitiet   and local                                 I I
Inetitutleao (e.g.  con-      goveroceat wich reult
I earvatiaa group., villge    nt eofficetnt *pplice-
caumile, ruligiew              tie. of roeeurce ead
|                       ~~~~~~~~~I ttitvtlenes) and Wbteb    oustaituble upland         |                         
I  tiliee local lntetwt-         *e"lepmet and eeerar-|                                
tlfea  {{{g.8      livA:    t   vatloeg!                             
unIlweritieo) to provide                                                                                                         I
t ehnical lbceketoppr
to upland easmuitloea
I *Ie  Reusto    op.  b. lItas lesouro.e  Dveloe. I                                         I
ex eiIiioef et      Ic.l. am lecol gover I-                  - roject treislq  id    - AdquAte imetitutioeljertewleela I
traisiug p:og- isn aup%aued      "at deciolealworat,    Itfinial "useeo.                 I                                         Iouger/ate4ade.
d giculturo. eooaervatlea        techniceans   testlee        - AnsAel easees ta. t       - Adequato Bellish leangse eapebi-
precticee and comunitty          vorksre, ead gareer ad  | toJtct  ol atle                  lity on pact of *p rlot $telf.
|    nagemeat for exteaeion      caeunity leaders   Pare-ltl e t.tept                                             t that  stetl-
workers, famets  nd ceu-    t9eine4 1n uplead dat-                                          I ti* uttebl, traees adA prvlide
c I ity leadert  and lecal         e.2. N.A. level traimiag                                    time for treile.                       |
I                                 I govermnmet deailsoe makere.    lor 36 prafecsionl             I
tbreuab U.S. land Creat
iUvnrlsityjVIDA/Seil,
I                                  I                                   Caaeerwetioa service
I                                   work/study program.         I                           I
I                                  c.3. An i.foruatiaa prog- I                              I
ram of newsletters slide 
"shown & moviei  will b
I  I                                brought to the villes. .
I . Access Peodet kceess           .  Acesas bidet 475 kse       Ilysoeal verifeaties.    - Adequate local eapacity/p.rea-
I  roeda estebllsead as            OfrWi  grade village          Project budget end           power exists to carry cut the 
I  required to sustelnable         access road constructed   I records.                     I coaractioa activitles. 
I                                  I  upland pilot project            And/or wpgratded to          I-UEctive warklg reletiaeblp                                          I
areas.   + 90 km  by enr        us:tainable uplatd           |                              btwe    Toenag& IKerjo end v.U.        |
I__et_year threo__  I                 r     ar ratte   pilot   |
project *r ^^               ll                                     



NARIAUTI   lIEAR!         I            OLJCTIVLR   VRJ UFIAIL  IKDICATOKS                     M EANS Or VRitlZCAITIO  I          IHW ITAiT AUUUHWZOMS
,                       ~~~~~~~~I *7. mic iII                                                                                                                     I
I    Frole  Itniovatloa Fund   d.                               1oeet    Inetn t un
|  eytee esteWllaoh    a nd       system eoteWllgthd *ndar
I  eah partlelpatl qotetet   each Participatin
I*teatodimg  rloto li rompomme  distritI                                                  I eIttW
to prepomal ftee local          rcnto in response to
lostituttos anA eg_namitlmou  proposele from local
Institutlio  & comme_nltles.m
4. *yalatloa  Elannil             4. Uvolueat(oe  conducted
and Erol et    isorlmal          amoumlly3 with major
for phase III  Vfeil  ec          evaluation at an  o e
"<   ee  *Iuatloll  third aid fifth yalrl
of eeenot activtiteoql 
HIS la pl ee end endulel|||
*^"|_en4t 644961 esults.                                                        
I      __                               ____                                                            __                            __



ANNE X   V
BUDGT ANNEX
I



>        s    ]  §  tn^2  twAa    i    2  U  .2 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
a-              -2-                ml~~~~~~~~~~-~~~-  ~ a -  __  SO
a-~~~~~ap
U .   ____  H. _~-  a __             0 _     ______ 
-~~      0 ________________ _OO   gf  _M
a  _ ___________ __--_-_-   --   -   - -  -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
.4f         oooo    oooo   -------            8--
a-a-  P  a   7m - --  -  --  -   -  --  -  -
a a-
.-0~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1°  ° O o o _aO                 o
t~~~~~1 0 cm 10   a ° 0 20 " oe   o  ea o0    _8
Oa~~~~a
a a AM CD ae oaaa  00a o °o 
lo       t-o ao o- 8e   aa- ao o   o
a  i a       DaB             
e~~~~~4 1w                    0  ""     _  "e
.4     5
o  z e  e e o o  o e o  o o e   e  ° CD|CD
lo    __ _____________   __._ _.  _____ _ _
*  a-a-a-a-   ia-i-a-  a-i-a M 
0~~~~~~~~~



lud,e  Ane
ProvinoLal toevel project Mana&ement a staft costs toentral and Saint Java)
I(u' In 00031
I          1 _____                  an~~~~~~~~tip      PtQ lict year                                      s ame  Sote h1ip.ieot Tear                   ______ 
_________________ init i-r-r 1            F2        14T         1T          Total    lunit Coseti              i  . ..F .1Y      3    4   I        I . . I    Ttal 
IA. invqutment Catel                                                                                      I         I I II100000l  I  I   I       I       I       I    I~ 
I Pb,inoial evel'                                                                                        I"*                     I       I       I       I       II
Ib.kt.acentralJ5za,a                                                                                                                                       
ITnil                   IIG I                      I     I      I                               10000   I 600001          I       I       I       I       I       I    '0000 
IOItt.quiAWPurn(POU)I set  I2  I                                             1I 10000   1 200001                         I       1       I       1       I       1    208000
Is. Reourrent costs  I                                                                                    1601260160I260L30I260160I                                   901600 
11. Personnel (10.31I           I     I     I            I      I      I      II                          I 310001 3100,01  L10001 310001 310001 310001 310001   217000            I
I  roj. Coordinator    P o   I2I          I      I      I      I             I       2       1   3600  I  72001  72001  72001  72001 -720-01 -720-01  72001    50400 
Iproject Plan. Oct. INo   I2 1             I                          I              2       I   2500  I  s0001   s000l  s0o01  50001  50001   500l  sool    35000
I Nis/oval* officer  IPNo   I  2 1    I           I                           I       2       1   2500  I  s0001  50001  s0001  s001,  s0001  s0001  5000              35000       I
I Proj. PIFn. Off.        "a ao    2                                          1         2     I   2500  I  50001  50001  50001  50001  s0001  500l  s000l    35000                 I
I Ieoretarium             No   I4 I         I      I     I      1      I              4       1   1000  1  40001  40001  40001  40001  40001  40001  40001    260000               I
3rivera  I No   I  6 I    I  I    I      I      I      I       S~     ~~~~~~~ I  00  I  43001  diSo1  46001  48001  41001  4.001  46001         33600 
12. other               I                                                                                   971001 971001 976001 971001 97.001 97.001 971001   664600 
1 Fra&vel lcw.dPCU) IAnn. I           I     I      I            I      I      I               issoof/y/  I T5I-oI Ti-oiil i3-56 ifo 17000  WroliI -1TWi 170001   Tti-T             I
I Office hnx'. (IP0.3   I Ann. I    I    I        I                    I      IIuO,/P/y 1 3,0001 360001 360001 3,0001 360001 360001 360001   252000                               I
I Vehiclebimnning       IM0/I         I    I       I  I  I   I                                I           I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I                I
Expuenses (10.3)   1km/li' I 20 I 20 I 20  I 26  1 20  I 20  I 20  I                        140jgpAmu 1  41001  41001  41001  46001  41001  46001  410001    33600               I
Ircoj. Monitoring   I          I    I    I       I      I      I      I      I               I           I      I        I       I      I        I       I       I                I
I  vaI/Spes.Iteds    AnMn. I             I      I      I      I                             120000/P  I 400001 400001 4100001 400001 410001 400001 400001   2600000              I
IC. Total ProvincialI                                                                                                                                              
I    OI(bt             I                                       I      I      III010I2012001100110I2101210                                                            931600       I
13332Am joy:6/27/34



Upland Aqrlculture and Onssr,ation lprolect
District Level Managemwnt £Utaff Ceets (Central and East Javad
(RV. La coos)
1.. Inyesatmnt Cocti                                                                                 1001           I      lzoo                                240000
1isLtrLat Leirel       I      I     I    I      I      I     I      I     III                             II                1                       
Jetiep  DLt~raJVa,1A       U I    I      I     I      I                          16 I       1I00   I       Iooo    I       I      Ioo     I                   1I  0 0
OI                    I        III . fI   I I         I     I                            I          I      I       I       I      I       I                              I 
f,gn(ltutr./H     I ILI1R)uI4I         I      I   41       I                           110000   1 4001   1   14I                01      1                      0u00
11. inecurrent CSlte I                          I     I      I     I                                 124001152400l1U24001304s00130480012048001304uoI   1674400 
IA. permannl (MU)  I          I    I    I       I      I     I      I     I               II 594601 596001 596301119200I1119200I111g20011192001    655600 
I Proj. Manager        I NO   I  4 I    I       I   U I      I      I     I       U       1  3000   I 120001 120001 T10C0l 240001 240001 2490011 240001   I1fio
I Planning Officeer   I NSo   I  4 I    I       I   I        I      I             I       I  2000   I  10001  10001  60001 160001 160001 160001 140001          61000 
I MIS/hval. Officer  I No   I  4 I    I         I   U        I      I             a       I  2000   I  00001  10001  00001 160001 160001 160001 160001          11000O
IPLnasm  OffLcer.   I No   I  4         I                  I      I     II               I  2000   I  Mol0  10001  10001 160001 160001 160001 160001          35000 
Date A"lyst  I ft    1  4 1    1  1   9 I                a       I ~~~1500   I 40001  .0001  60001 120001 120001 120001 1L20001         66000     I
I secretaries          I No   I  a I    I       I  16 I      I      I     I      16       I  1000   I sogol  10001  600001 160001 l.00o1 1so001 160001          Sa000o
IClerks               I No   I  4 I    I       I   U        I            I       a       I   800   I  32001  32001  32001  64001  .4001  64001  64001          35200     I
o Divers              Ino        a             I  16        I I          I      16       I   600   I  64001  64001  64001 121001 126001 121001 12l001          70400     I
I3. Other              I                                                                               652001 321001 92800I1165G0011U5600113560011856001   1020800        I
I TravelI Allow.       lann.  I    I    I       I      I     I      I     I               13600/ann i T4 1511 i-14 115i iT44- oi -re  001I  -2 FG0, I2830100101o-o  IATSUI
I Off Ice gxp. (19W)   Iea rn.  I    I    I     I     I      I      I     I               11000/.th I 320001 410001 410001 960001 960001 160001 960001    512000 
I Vehicle ftanning    IDOOokaI 20 I 20 1 20  I 20  I 20  I 20  I 20  1                    14ORp/k.  1  32001  64011  44001 126001 120001 123001 121001          400 
I hpeneeuI(Po)lijep I               I    I      I     I      I      I1.1                 I          I       I       I      I       I       I      I       II
I ofI.Mentral (NW) lann.  I    I    I           I      I     I      I     I               1500oMth  I 160001 240001 249010  410001 430001 430001 4,0001    254000         I
lilt. Total isitrictl I                                                                                                                                    
IN.tltu/Wmte(1.ZIP I   I    I    I      I      I     I      I     I               I          1245200115240011524001424800130410013041002400139eO    18621000
23332Aijoy sG/27/I4



I.                                                                                  4~~~~~~~Tbl  
TeahaLcal Assistance I
_____                                   Teatg titgI                      ass Cost. JNiet year                                   ______ 
I________________                                                     __6_U__ i    UnA.Cout 0        I .....1                            .....LJTI             Total 
I             111111111                                                     I          11              T    I    I~~~3   I 
It. lmveatuent Costs             I                I       I    I     I      I                                                                                         odooo 
office ru  Ieq  IpiIse                               I                         I      itoo    I         I00      I        I                 II                    *-. 
SA. ;m    Iecr.svd  Ofi         I    I      I      I     I                                                    I        I        I       I                                      I
I  h1c1IW                                       I       INO             IS          1 7500  1450001            I        I                                         45000
I office Pwrn/euipl6got  I   1    I           I     I    I    I       I        2      110000   I 300001          I        I        I                I              20000 
Io.var. uv,. R::,I            I    I      I      I    I    I    I        I           I          I      I        I        I         I        I        I                       I
I whioal.             I"a   I II          I      I    I    I    I        I    1       I7500   175001             I        I        I        I                       7500 
I OCffrurn./Eqt.Lp.  Not   Ii             I      I     I     I    I      I    I      110000   I100001            I            I I               I                  10000 
Ill  ReaUCirtl.Cm.j                                            I     I      III                           I        I        II                II               110512545 
I                        I       I                       1        1         III                           I        I        IIII                               I- - 
IConsult. Cant "act   1,/al          I      I      I                I      I           112500 2/I        I                 I                           I      I 
he  x "as. I Upat.)          110  I 36  I 36  I 36 113  112  I          I           1          11250001 4500001 4500001 4500001 1500001 1500001             I   1775000 
asFov. Coon!. Off.l         I 7.5I$0s4110.t41g6.41S4*4136*4I12+121                  I         I 93750114000001140000011230000I111000001 50000013000001   6043750 
Ic. re Remeatcb         I       1 4.51 24  I 24  1 24 I 24 I 24 I 121                  I         I 562501 3000001 2000001 2000001 3000001 30000011500001   1706250
IO. Oen.ltakttw UP               13  II                         I     I                           1 375001         I        I        I        I        I       I      37500
1IzndonegianeI                   I           I       l         II                                I       I        I        I        I        I        I       I                I
In      1s5    112   13l                             2    2    2                     1  450   1  22501   54001   54001   54001   54001   54001               1     29250     1
I  clerical          I       I     I      I      I    I     I           II                     I       I        I        I        I        I        I       I                I
I unskilled           I       I5  I12    12  I 12 I12 I 12 9             1           I  100   I   SOOt   12001   12001   12001   12001   12001              I       6500     I
as Prove QW066 OffI             I      I  I           I       I    I       I           I         I       I        I        I        I        I         I      I                I
I    hofeseLonal      I       I 3  I48    43  I 41   43 I 43 9 46  1                 I 2500 3/I  75001 1,200001 1200001 1200001 1200001 12000011200001    727500             I
I Clerical            I         1I  46  I41    45   46 I 24 1 24  1                  I  450   I   4501  214001  216001  216001  216001  103001I 101001    106450             I
I Unshilled           I        I1    72  I72  I72   72   24 1 24  1                  1  100   I   1001   72001   72001   73001   72001   24001  24001              23700      I
Ic.Vlre ereah                                                 I I    I1     I          I         I       I        I        I        I        I        I       I                I
I Clercacl            I       I3  I12  112  I12 I12 I 12 1 12  1                     I  450   1  13501   54001   54001   54001   54001   54001  54001              33750 
I Unskilled           I       I3  I12  I12  I12 I12 I 12 1 12  1                     I  100   I   3001   12001   1.2001   12001   12001   12001  12001              7500 
Iveholae run. .aiPORS6 lslet Rpi 40 u 20,000 kuu   ntuber of vehilel. annuallyll                  I       I        I        I        I        I        I       I      63195 
A. I. goo.              I   /Y 10.51 I II SIII  I  I  I I1    I I               7.5  I1.00    I   4001    6001          8001     6001     Dool   3J001   wool        .3111 
I v. prow.coord. OffI. I  v/y I0.1    6  1  6  1  6 1  6 1  2 1  2  1   29.1   1                  I    301   4a001    46001   49001   46001   16001  16001            22480 
1 C. re fecseach         I  Viy 10.2 1  I  I  1L  I  1LI  ILI 1, II  I  I    7.3   I              1   2401    .001       1001    60o1    6001       fool   Srl0        5040     I
IVehicle maintenance  I            I                II   I   I       I        I       I          I        I        I        I        I        I       I            I
IA.-W. 8..                                             I 1I1IL1 I       I  11   7.5  1750  1    2751    7501    7501    7501    7501    7501   7501                   4875 
B . lrov.Coor.3. Off. I          0.I6 16             6      S    6    6        29.1   1                751   45001   45001   45001   45001   45001  45001            27075 
IC   V    esearch       W/f   02I1          1    1        I I    I  1    1.3   1                  2251    7501    7501    7501    7501    7501   7501             4725      I
I               I       ~~~~~~~101I  1I   It    I   "I   1         I                                       I        I        II                         
I    IALW             I                                                                         14163451232440012324400121744001172440011105500153,0001  1067554S 
of licem are aolocate4 wLth counterparts
yOffice zirupieng, intal assumed under monthly costs
43332gjoym /27/64



rari t rtesPeh         ac  cmoent s
4Unit                                                  r  4 5II.. atal  Unit cost I 0     1       2       3      4
A. _Ivesmen   costs                                         i          i                            11840001 550001                                       1       239000    .
N o   1                     1  3'                               110000        I.0000130a0001         I       1       1              1 
PI Vik-up truck       N1o    I                                                   Ii~              112000  1 120001   1       I      I       1       I       I 
motorcycles            Nol   1151101                                           20      1   OO       I 100001 100001
1N1nibus                         I             I      I      I      1.1100                           1 120001       I                      I
Mazteactore       No ~~~160 41     I                                       4      1 4000       1 160001               1       1               1      1
IGenmrat.r (7000 W)   No.1          II                              I      I     I 1    1000         I       I  50001        I      I       I       I       I               I
I Office 3tquipuent   I get  1 21         I                          1            2      1  7000      1 140001        I       I      I       I       I       I
Iftroonal couut.rI No  I             I ILI       I      I                                II I  10000  I       IioLOoI        I      I       I       I       I
I Field toab.taility I Va r.   I  I                            I                        I 9000       I 90000         I       I      I       I       I       I
I                                                                                                       I       II   I I    I   II                          37I2
I*. lacurrenk Coete  I  *  a                                   I                                                                                    I~~~~~~~ omeeIfttww~01  W.WI ameI w w   ~aI  -m 
II. Pureonnel (EKUI  1         I    j                         I                          I11574601159660I1S981E0I159060115286011591601159"601   1116620
ftoject Wader  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ No      II *7  *                              0/y      I    00 uu.uI .w.w1 uw0.;:Iuu0;;1 .0m01 u.u1u.a                0o-
Seior   mrh           I No I7    I           7 I   7         I 7I                9      14o/             301360  336001 336001 336001 336021 336001    23S200 
Juior   I0ko            Me      1I  1    1I  1            1  I  1I11            I4        4I0/          540001 540001 540001 540001 540001 540001 54000)    378000 
ITeahnLaanu             No   I24 I24 I24 I24 I24 I  24 I24 I 169                        I 14404y    I 34560 1 345601 345601 345601 345601 345601 345601    141920 
IField Am  steants     No   I25 I25 I25 I25 I25    25 I23 1   175                       I  780/'    1 195001 195001 1uS001 195001 195001 195001 195001    136500 
secretaries          INO        5 I5 I 5 I            5 I 5 I   S              35      I 10004y    I  50001  50001  50001  s0001  sOcal  50001  50001            33000     I
I GrAven       I      I  S I~~ 91    9 I 91    91         9  9 I 9      60      I  60004'    I 48001  72001  72001  72001  72001  72001  72001            48000 
2. other              I                                                                                 7962091 8701 94,701 9,8O701 9119701 611701 811701    610140 
IVeb. Run. btpne.  I 000  1 40140 140  1 40  I 40    40  1 40  I   280                  IRRp5O/km   1    17712 201 1 71201 1 71201 171201 121  7=1201 1112301    119940     I
Ve~hicle OMK          Is.rep I  6 I  9 I   9 I 9 I 9I 9 I   9 I    60                   1 V750000/y I  450 01 7501  67501  67501  67501  67501  67501             45000 
I Travel allowance   I Ann. I    I    I          I      I     I      I      I            I   71P      I 200001 200001 2600001 200001 200001 200001 200001    1460000         I
IOfios  and staff I           I    I I          I I          I      I      I            I            I       I       I       I      I       I       I       I               I
houseo rental         I Ann. I    I    I       I      I      I     I      I            I             I 160001 150001 1600o1 110001 110001 160001 1.000l    126000           I
I Tr/aDnE./Publia.  I Ann. I    I    I           I      I     I      I      I            I            I 200001 200001 350001 350001 300001 200001 200001    110000           I
I                      I       I     I    I      I     I             I     I             I            I       I       I      I       I       I       I      I 
13. Field Res.Budget I Ann . I    I    I         I      I     I      I     I                          1 3500001300000120000012040001I200000120000012000*00I1 .A0000~ 
IC. Total Faruing      I       I     I    I      I      I     I      I      I                                                                 
I avut   Hoe.  ost.    I    I    I    I      I     II  I                      I            17?1010IS96730145673014567301451730144173014417301   3616460
Is332A1jcya 6/27/U4



_Upland AgticuLtute and Conservation PC*laat
suistainable Uplanda Faming Ustons Pilot Proleata
(Rpm In 00 a
pnt1         Pr   a   er          ______                               ame Wisti byroeo t IYear              ~a
II. Investment Coslt.II                                        II                              1 3060001  160001 3208001  929001            I        I        I    725600
I.     I   I   I    I    I    I    I    I              I       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .0aa.l   0.suu.-u-I  -"-I I       I                  a 
Kotorcyole           I       1 221 121  261  121    I    I    I    72   1 1000/motor  I  100001  160001  240001  220001                   1        1       I      72000
Jep(gub-project    No   I 201   I  201   21    I    I    I    42   1 10000/veh.    2000001                  1 P-00001  200001          I        I        I    420000
Ofce 3qudp.        I st1401   I  421   21    I    I    I    94   I 400/mat                 I  160001         I  1610001   01 Il                 I               33600 
IOffice Hurs.Deapt. I      a14               1 2                          0 I300nus                col          I900    001                1200
We___u___n  costs I   ha47001I   120 100420000/nuts.                                                              !420  744O  7440    424ii740
Hin.Af A!r..1 II              I              I    I    I    I    I            I               I ( iiiiY-)I(75-601 I(73560 1 (90-7201 1 (,072011 (,072-01 1 ,0_720) I   (-49390108 
road c~ir.Aq*PM)1s  I  No  I  41   I   41    I    I    I    I            8   I 1440/yr        I   s7601   S7601  115201  11S201  115201  115201  115201           69120 
Liestock (PMS)   I No  I  41   1   41    I    I  4 I    I             9   5 1440/yr       I   S7601   57601  11521  1L15201  115201  115201  115201            69120 
noaeCrop (PuO) I  No  I  41   I   41    I    I    I    I            S   I L440/yt       I   57601   57601  11S201  11S201  115201  111201  115201            69120     I
I   xt.Monager (PIN) I  No  I li1 121  241  121   41    1               72   1  760/yt        I   71001  202101  390001  561601  561601  561601  561601    291720 
M in.of FrorestryINor)        I                                                                  (9160)l (9160) 1(16320) 1(17520) 1(17520) 1(17520) 1(17520)1   (102720) 
1  Soil 0onmerv (P'M)l  N o  I  41   I   41    I    1    I    I            a   1 1440/I        I   51601   57601  115201  115201  115201  115201  115201            69120     I
5   ursegy Itaff(IPLP)l No H@    41   1   41   21    I    I    I    10   I  600/yr            I   21001   24001   41001   60001   60001   60001   60001            33600 
Rlural Extocenturl                I                                                                                                                           
I   xt.staff(PPEMPl3)   Ho  11101 601 1301  a01    I    I    I   360   1  600/yr              1  330001  510001 1410001 1980001 2160001 2160001 2160001   1152000            I
In. Other Cost         I        I     l       I     I    I    I    I           I               I 4006S05 1636001 3075501 4104001 4242001 4242005 4242001   2575000 
1 Vehicle run. expn. 1000 km540 I   I    I    I    I    I    I                 IIpOAcm         I -io-oo-oI  400001'T  o  6001820001l  OUR00    820001  9120-001    439 00-0   I
1 Viehiole maint.      l8t.ropi   I   I    I    I    I    I    I               IRp730/yr       I  222001  234001  460001  492001  492001  492001  492001    166000 
I Notoraycle 0414      115000kg    I   I    I    I    I    I    I              53p100/yr       I   16501   42001   70301   99001  10.001  101001  101001            56100 
I  cave1 allowance   I Anne I   I   I    I    I    I    I    I                It*             I 3170001  760001 1245001 1733001 1162001 1862001  1162001    1249400          I
I P13 housing allow. I Ann. I   I   I    I    I    I    I    I                IItp500/yr      I   10001   10001  160001  160005  160001  160001  160001            96000 
I Hrorsry Opr. cost  I 3haw I  41   1   61    I    I    I    I                IRPlQOOGyr      I  320001  320001  640001  moCoul  600005  100001  100005    4410000           I
1i11.  WUS Submid, Iha/yr   1   122011990131501522016120161201 22620   1R9300000 ovenl 1398001 24116005 3089601 9010161149192411061012114S35681   6560260 
1                      I            I   I    I    I    I    I    I             I   2 yearcs   I *.a.sa-al           uuum wersa5.fuulu5saulau5au4.5                 eU..m      I
IPlantini Matterial' I        I   I   I    I    I    I    I    I              I               I   960001  9,9601 2577401 4813761 6810601 7197121            I   2250666 
Ilotyr. DoermV If             I  II          I    I    I    I    I            I               I        I        I        I        I        I        I       I 
+ * hpansian         Spar/hal   I   I    I    I    I    I    I               122920 ha       I        I  122001 1232201 3196401 5992641 1503401 8959611   2600632 
I2nd yr. DenFm ** uI          I  II          I    I    I    I    I            I               I        I        I        I        I        I        I       II
I   4 UpaniaL                I ISn  I        I                    I          I  2 years    I          I        I   .0001  101001 2096001 3,29601 5576001   1246960 
nlestoperation                I   I   i           I     I     I    I          I               1 1300011 1300001                   I        I                 1    260000
1  1   1      1I1*1PwuiV.L000/yrI                  I               I        I        I        I        I        I        I        II
1TcYAL1+1*U1                           I    IPPH I   60OfyrI       I          I               I 9024611 58590011241780116924361222266412693752121843081  11513200            5
*  1                 I       I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I lPpi I   300/yrl    I      I               I *'I                                                                          I
s ee following table for leeds budget detail
to 001 will. fund the second year subsidy for the last axpanmion segmeant, which wLil be In Tear 7. therefore afttr PACW.
0 3332AtjoysG/27/84



ulpland Agricul1ture and o3nhervation Project
Hu R Asoureem Development
Quantit   b  Prolet Tear                                                   Bas____  ie   eu roeter_______
(iionewlIIutLlI.eI  I   2    ~~2                                              I I I  II                                                         I    Toa
It. investment costs                                       
IexL.t. laailLtiesI           2     I      2      2     I      2      2      II                                                                              
Geproje providedl                                                                                                                                    
Ilogistics supportl                                                                                                                                  
ltrg. wiLXb. donel                                                                                                                           
Iunderocntract r)2                                                                                                                                  
jIl. Recuarrent cots.                                                                                                                                              1365661
IA. Trrainingi Olreotorl No   I      I       I     I      I      I      2     I       7    I 3000  I  30001  20001  30001  30001  30001  30001  30001               21000
10. Travel Allowance lannuall         I      I      I     I      I      I     I       7    1   2040  1  13261  20401  20401  20401  20401  20401  20402             13566     I
IC. Newsletter         limit. I    19    21    31   3 1    dl    d1    42   1           2L      5000o   I  50001 100002 150001 150001 200001 200001 200002    105000          I
I                      I       I      I      I     I      I      I      I     I             I          I       I2     I       I       I       I       I      I                I
Iliz.  intensive       I       I      I      I     2      I      I      I                   II                 I      II              IIIII
Iiehorc~z~OUCSe        I       2      I                                       III                              I      I                                            735200     I
I A. Vaguer.           tpre/wkl       I 37402 57101102001122401122401122401  56440    1           1eI            374001 57aQol102000Il22400112240011224001         5644-00 
IN. OttensAon workor.lpreAvkl  2201  2301  4301  4201   601             I     I   1360    I    100  I 220001 230001 430001 420002  60001                           126000 
2C.ZXxtensionNMana-        I      I      I      I      I     I      I  I                  I          I        I       I       I       I       I       I                       I
I    gers a uuperv.  Ipru/wkl   441   241   561   242            I      I     2    220    1    100  2  44002  24001  560"I  24002  72001              I      I      22000     I
ID. Subject Matterl            I      I      I     I      I      I      I         I       I          I         I      I       I       I       I       I                       I
I    Specialists       Ijpre/whl   161       I   161   3221   321   3222            128     1    100  I  16001        I  16002  32001  22002  32001           1     25000 
I                      I       I      I      I     I      I      I     I      I             I          I       I      I       I       I       I       I      I                I
lIv. In-OountryTh  ralI            I     I      I         I      I      I     I             I          I       I      I       I       I       I       I      I      190002
IA. KeyCtF ers         I pr gYkl      I      I  1001  1002  1001  1001        I    400    1    100  I          I      I 100002 100002 100002 100009          I      iii0i    I
tis. state             Iprsdwkl       I   401   201   201   201         I     I      60     I    100  I        I  20001  20001  20001  20002          I       I      6000 
IV. ftmal raLnineI             2                                                                                                                                1240000       I
IA. Diploma (ind.40) Ipr./yrl         I      I    of    el   102   101    41         40    1   2000  2                I 160001 160001 200002 200001  $100o1         60000 
In. MAoterm (Ind.20) Ipr./vrI2/   I    52    Si   102   iol   102             I      40     1   5000  I        I 250001 250002 500002 500001 500001          I    200000      I
IC. Neuters (abrd.20)Ipra/yrlT/   I    SI    SI   102   102   101    52              s0    1  19200  I            600011920001212000I11200011920001 960001    960000          I
iNatoc-a-e-          IpAvk  I    3 22           II    31     I              2I     1        100        301 00   10001  30001  10001                 I10001       ______ 
2V11. Study Taure      I       I      I      I     I      I      I      I     II                              I       2       I       I       I      I       II
I  Abroad           Ipr./vkl       I   lei   lei       I   1.2      I   iII      72     I   1000  I        I 160001 1600021        I 1.0001       I 160002       72000
I                2~~~~~~ I      2      I     I      I      I      I     2             I          I       I      I       I       I       I       I      I                I
TOPAZ.       ~ ~I    I      2  I      I         I      I      I     I             I          I 403261219I40139204014426401456S40142264012704401   2244766           I
l/ 24 month program
le 30 month program
13332hijoyo6/27/04



k4qse Rrnneu
Table 6
O0ngervation P4Oee pb4d
(Rp" In 000uJ
I                        alUf   by   tU our                                   same Cost                                            F r  _
oI.txlqtlev un I                  I           l3     4    i    5                             a        I       2                 4   I        I        I     tI
A   lti 1nSun   ots                                                                                                                                           L-o
I hiae1           lIo/Ditl 4 1         I     1 4 1      I    I      I    a      I 10000  1 400001          1        14 0001          1            1          60l0
og*tle furneqwilpIlDlati   *  I        I     I  4 4     I    I      I    *       I  1000  1  40001         1        1   40001        1                        *0oo0
____                 I       I    I      I      I    I    I    I       I           I         I       I        I       I        I        I        I       I               I260
|  . Recurrnet costs                                                                                                                                            2X
1. core staff         11 taI  4 1   4 I   *4    4               4    4 I     e      1   900  1  3600    36001   36001   36001   36001   36001   36001           -5300
0    - planner   lp¢r.yr   4 |   4 1   4 1  4 1  4 1  * |   4 1   20          1   360  1  1I401   14401   14401   14401   14401   14401   14401            10060
I -  urvoyar      Ip C.r        1 12    12 I  12 I 12    1 12   12 I  12 I   64  1   300  1  36001   36001   36001   36001   36001   36001   34001           25200   1
I    - designer         Iper.yrl  6 I       1 I   I  U I  a I          a I   So       I   1so  I  12001 1001   12001   12001   12001   12001   12005              640*
I      glseimator       SperrYd  *       a * I   6 I a  I a  I a   I   a I   56       I   100o1   8001    *oo        6oelol gof         ool    6o0l    goal        1600
I    - clocrks           per.yrl      1  I      I   * I e    I I    I   0 1   64      1   15D  I  12001   12001   1200    12001 L12001   1001   12001              64004
I    - ttechniclans    Ipr.yrl       I   * I  10 I1 I1a   1  I 24 1  24 1  126        1   300  1       1   24001   30001   54001   54001   72001   73001          34400
const. aup.r,. Iper.Yrl  I        4 1   5 I 9 I 9 1 12 1  12 1   63           1   200  I        I    6001   10005   18005   16001   24001   24001          10200
|    - dratn    lper.yrl  0 1    a I   a I  I I a I   I I   e         56 s        100  I   s001    6005100t    6001             005ol    sooo    60         5600
2. sraTel allowanc per.rtIl  !  2!  27 534  11  54                     1  2             600 !    72001  144001  162001  204001  324001  324001  32400t    15540   1
. 3  Vohic. aperakion                                                                         I  20001   20001   25.01   41001   45001   600eoe    6o00          71500   I
| 4. Construction         KM I  |    I   5 |  42 1 66 1109 1127 1 126   47            1   100  I       1  40,001 3402001 5346001                         001    3047500   1
5. Maintenance                                                                                               I | A    |    }  2  l    l    l    l  l   l     |  |    125|   11751   26251   555sl   37251  140O   I
| .Kainlten   4 e. fr5K         1    1      1      I    I    I    I                                                                                                        I   ko  so  Ze  eo  ol eol *ol 4z
S. tpaIr        e             1    1      1      1    I i                           1            2201    2001   64001    Bo001           l       o001 l 60001   4360 
C      Tan    a                    I      I           I    I    I       I           I         I      I'  7140 1                            _0
;T- - T-                             -  -o)    I .          . I     I1. _        I        I  , 4 I         I      SI  3 I         , I- I  I I ll
e Labor, materials plant hire
! only material
1 3332Ajoyt7/2/84



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N
m
I



AREX 6: STATUTORY CHECKLIST
Listed below are statutory
criteria applicable generally to
projects under the FAA and project
criteria applicable to individual
funding sources: Development
Assistance (with a subcategory for
criteria applicable only to
loans); and Economic Support Funds.
A.  GENERAL CRITERIA FOR PROJECT
1.   FY 1982 Appropriation
Act; Sec. 523; FAA Sec.
634A: Sec. 653 (b).
(a)  Describe how               The Committees in appropriation
authorizing and                  of Senate and House were
appropriations Committees        notified of the project through
of Senate and House have         the FY84 Congressional Presenta-
been or will be notified         tion and through a Congressional
concerning the project;         Notification.
(b) is assistance within
(Operational Year Budget)
country or international
organization allocation
reported to Congress (or
not more than $1 million
over that amount)?
2.   FAA Sec. 611(a)(1).
Prior to obligation in          Yes
excess of $100,000, will
there be (a) engineering,
financial other plans
necessary to carry out
the assistance and (b) a
reasonably firm estimate
of the cost to t:e U.S.
of the assistance?
3.   FAA Sec. 611(a)(2).  If          No further legislative action
further legislative              is required.
action is reqaired within
recipient country, what
is basis for reasonable
expectation that such
action will be completed
in time to permit orderly
accomplishment of purpose
of the assistance?



-2-
4.   FAA Sec. 611(b); FY 1982
Continuinq Resolution
Sec. 501. If for water
or water-related land
resource construction,has
project met the standards
and criteria as set forth
in the Principles and
Standards for Planning
Water and Related Land
Resources, dated October
25, 1973?
5.   FAA Sec. 611(e.  If              NA
project i.s capital
assitance (e.g..
construction), and all
U.S. assistance for it
will exceed $1 million,
has Mission Director
certified and Regional
Assistant Administrator
taken into consideration
the country's capability
effectively to maintain
and utilize the project?
6.   FAA Sec. 209.  Is project        It is being iplemented as
susceptible of execution         a mltilateral project.
as part of regional or
multilateral project? If
so why is project not so
executed? Information
and conclusion whether
assistance will encourage
regional development
programs.
7.   FAA Sec. 601(a).                 This project should directly
Information and                  encorage (b). (c) and (e).
conclusions whether
project will encourage
efforts of the country
to: (a) increase the flow
of international trade;
(b) foster p_ivate
initiative and
competition: and (c)
encourage development and
use of cooperatives, and



-3-
credit unions, and
savings and loan
associations; (d)
discourage monopolistic
practices; (e) improve
technical efficiency of
industry, agriculture and
commerce: and (f)
strengthen free labor
unions.
8.   FAA Sec. 601(b).                NA
Information ad-
conclusions on how
project will encourage
U.S. private trade and
investment abroad and
encourage private U.S.
participation in foreign
assistance programs
(including use of private
trade channels and the
services of U.S. private
enterprise.)
9.  FAA Sec. 612(b), 636(h);         Normal project disbursement
FY 1982 Appro riation           procedures assure this.
Act Sec 507. Describe
steps taken to assure
that, to the maximum
extent possible, the
country is contributing
local currencies to meet
the cost of contractual
and other services, and
foreign currencies owned
by the U.S. are utilized
in lieu of dollars.
10. FAA Sec. 612(d).  Does           No
the U.S. own excess
foreign currency of the
country and, if so, what
arrangements have been
made for its release?
11.  FAA Sec. 60i(e.  Will           Yes
* thEe project uztilize
competitive selection
procedures for the
awarding of contracts,
except where applicable
procurement rules allow
otherwise?



-4-
12.  FY 1982 Appropriation Act        NA
Sec 521. If assistance
is for'the production of
any commodity for export,
is the commodity likely
to be in surplus on world
markets at the time the
resulting productive
capacity becomes
operative, and is such
assistance likely to
cause substantial injury
to U.S. producers of the
same, similar or
competing commodity?
13.  FAA 118(c) and (d).  Does        One purpose of the project is
the project take into            to reverse the negative
account the impact on the        environmental impact of the
environment and natural          farmers by demonstrating more
resources?  If the               sound and productive so5l
project or program will          conservation practices. A
significantly affect the         formal environmental assessment
global commons or the              ill be completed prior to any
U.S. environment, has an         procurement or use of pesticides.
environmental impact             With regard to roads, an envison-
statement been prepared?         mental assessment will be done as
If the project or program        roads are designed.
will significantly affect
the environment of a
foreign country, has an
environmental assessment
been prepared? Does the
project or program take
into consideration the
problem of the
destruction of tropical
forests?
14.  FAA 121(d).  If a Sahel          NA
project, has a
determination been made
that the host government
has an adequate syrtem
for accounting for and
controlling receipt and
expenditure of project
funds (dollars or local
currency generated
therefrom)?



-5-
B. FUNDING CRITERIA FOR PROJECT
1.   Development Assistance           this project wll provide
Project Criteria                forwrd steps for items (a),
(b). (c) and (d). Also.
a,   FAA Sec. 102(b), 111,      the project will be a partial
113, 281 (a).  Extent to        testing of (d) by the Mission
which activity will (a)         in collaboration with USAID/
effectively involve the         Philippines and USAID/Thailand.
poor in development, by
extending access to economy
at local level, increasing
labor-intensive production
and the use of appropriate
technology, spreading
investment out from cities
to small towns and rural
areas, and insuring wide
participation of the poor
in the benefits of
development on a sustained
basis, using the
appropriate U.S.
institution.; (b) help
develop cooperatives,
especially by technical
assistance, to assist rural
and urban poor to help
themselves toward better
life, and otherwise
encourage democratic
private and local
governmental institutions;
(c) support the self-help
efforts of developing
countries: (d) promote the
participation of women in
the national economies of
developing countries and
the improvement of women's
status; and (e) utilize and
encourage regional
cooperation by developing
countries?



*-6-
b.  FAA Sec. 103,               Yes
103A,104, 105 106. Does
tej project fit the
criteria for the type of
funds (functional
account) being used?
c.  FAA Sec. 107.  Is           Yes
emphasis on use of
appropriate technology
(relatively smaller,
cost-saving, labor-using
technologies that are
generally most
appropriate for the small
farms, small businesses,
and small incomes of the
poor)?
d. FAA Sec. 110(a).            yes
Will the recipient
country provide at least
25% of the costs of the
progran, pr3oject, or
activity with respect to
which the assistance is
to be furnished (or is
the latter cost-sharing
requirement being waived
for a "relatively least
developed country)?
e. FAA Sec. llO(b). Will       NA
grant capital assistance
be disbursed for project
over more than 3 years?
If so, has justification
satisfactory to Congress
been made, and efforts
for other financing, or
is the recipient country
Wrelatively least
developedo?
f.  FAA Sec. 122(b).           Yes
Does the activity give
reasonable promise of
contributing to the
development of economic
resources, or to the



-7-
increase of productive
capacities and
self-sustaining economic
growth?
g.  PAA Sec. 281 (b).            This project supports development
Describe extent to which         of local government institutions
program recognizes the           and increasing the productive
particular needs,                capacity and income of the rural
desires, and capacities          poor. It provides for training
of the people of the             In self-government and in
country; utilizes the            technical skills. It looks to
country's intellectual           local admistItions to
resources to encourage           loal acadelic  gvstitutions to
institutional                    assist the local govermnts in
development: and supports        iplemntation.
civil education and
training in skills
required for effective
participation in
governmental processes
essential to
self-government.
2.   Development Assistance
Project Criteria (Loans
only)
a. FAA Sec. 122(b).              GOI is able to repay the loan.
information and capacity
of the country to repay
the loan, at a reasonable
rate of interest.
b. FAA Sec. 620(d).  If          NA
assistance is for any
productive enterprise
which will compete with
U.S. enterprises, is
there an agreement by the
recipient courtry to
prevent export to the
U.S. of more than 20% of
the enterprise's annual
production during the
life of the loan?



-8-
c. ISDCA of 1981, Sec.          NA
724(c) and (dO If for
Nicaragua, does the loan
agreement require that
the funds be used to the
maximum extent possible
for the private sector?
Does the project provide
for monitoring under FAA
Sec. 624(g)?
3.   Project Criteria Solely
for Economic Support Fund
a. FAA Sec. 531(a).
Will this assistance
promote economic or
political stability? To
the extent possible. does
it reflect the policy
directions of FAA Section
102?
b. FAA Sec. 531(c).
Will assistance under
this chapter be used for
military, or paramilitary
activities?
c. FAA Sec. 534.  Will
ESF funds be used to
finance the construction
of the operation or
maintenance of, or the
supplying of fuel for a
nuclear facility? If so,
has the President
certified that such use
of funds is indispensable
to nonproliferation
objectives?
d. FAA Sec. 609. If
commodities are to be
granted so that sale
proceeds will accrue to
the recipient country,
have Special Account
(counterpart)
arrangements been nade?



-9-
e. Section 133.
Notwithstanding any other
provision of this joint
resolution, none of the
funds appropriated under
section 101(b) of this
joint resolution may be
available for any country
during any 3-month period
beginnning on or ,fter
October 1, 1982,
immediately following the
certification of the
President to the Congress
that such country is not
taking adequate steps to
cooperate with the United
States to prevent narcotic
drugs and othsr controlled
substances (as listed in
the schedules in Section
202 of the Comprehensive
Drug Abuse and-Prevention
Control Act of 1971 (21
U.S.C. 812)) which are
produced, processed, or
transported in such country
from entering the United
States unlawfully.'



A      N N E     VIII
BIBL IOMQEPHY
0~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 8
BXELOGRAPHY
Direktorate Jenderal Xehutanan, P3RPDAS Daerah Aliran Sungai Bran:tas,
'General Information about Brantas Watershed and Some Running
Activities", April 1983.
E1 Swaify, S.A., Arsayad, S., and Krishnarajah, P., "Soil Erosion by
Water", in Natural Systems for Development, Richard Carpenter,
editor, MacKillan Publishing Co., 1983, pp. 99-161.
Hamer, W.I., 'Soil Conservation Consultant Report", for the Soil Research
Institute of Indonesia, 1980, 1981, 1982.
HBdson, Norman W., NSoil and Conservation Strategies in the Third World",
Journal of Soil and Water Conservation, November - December 1983,
p. 450.
'Pola Terpadu Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai Jratunseluia", oleh BAPPEDA
Tk. I Jawa Tengah dan Proyek Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai
Jratunseiuna, April 1982.
Sheng, T.C., "Protection of Cultivated Slopes -- Terracing Steep Slopes
in Humid Regions", FOA, 1981.
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corp. (SMEC), "Report on the Serang River
Project", 1982.
USAID/GOI, "Composite Report of the Watershed Assessment Team", 3
volumes, 1983.
World Bank/Indonesia, "Policy Options and Strategies for Major Pood
Crops", Report No. 3686 IND, 1983.
#41711



AlNNEX   iX
LIST OP WOPKIG PAPERS AND- BACKGRUND WERZL



Ala=X 9
working Papers and Background Materials for the
Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project
The Papers and reports listed below by and large stand on their own, but
all of then define same constraints faced in the design of the UACP. Papers
steummng from the C:itanduy II Project are included to show why specific
objectives and organizational elements, different froa those of previous
watershed projects, have been incozporated in this project. Other papers are
proposals or think pieces that may provide useful ideas for the project as
specific needs develop. All are on file with the UAlC Project Papers.
1. 'Secondazy Crop Mark.eting, USAID/Tndonesia, Ric Bernsten, 1983.
2.  aagement Information System Terms of Reference.
3. a. Subsidies and Credit
b. IUpland Agriculture and Conservation Project Paper Annex;
Pinancial Support for Project Participants", Jay Rosengard, 1983.
4. 'Cooperative Seed Production and Distribution, for USAID/Indonesia', Sam
Piliaci, 1984.
5. Specific Proposals for the UAC Project Training Component.
6. 'Proposal for Upland Agriculture and Conservation Pro3ect", Applied
Agricultural Research, $inistry of Agriculture, 1984.
7. "The Citanduy River Basin Development Project-Citanduy Upper Watershed
Management Project--Feasibility Report", for the Directorate General of
Water Resources Development, Ministry of Public Works, PRC Engineeridg
Consultants, Inc., Denver, Colo., USA, 1980.
8. "The Citanduy River Basin Development Project-Panawangan Pilot Watershed
Implementation and Evaluation Report", for the Directorate General of
Water Resources Development, Ministry of Public Works, PRC Engineering
Consultants Inc., Denver, Colo., USa, 1980.
9. -Citanduy II-Orgaxnzational Arrangements for Iutegrated Multisectoral
River Basin Developmente, for USAID, Paul Bisek, 1981.
10. 'Citanduy River Basin Integrated Development Project (Citanduy II) Ciamis,
West Java, Monthly Reports", for USAm, Resources Management International,
Inc. in association with PRC Engineering Consultants, Inc., 1982-1984.
13. Citanduy 1I Detailed Component Description", Annex 3 of the Project Loan
Agreement between the Republic of lndonesia and the United States of
America, 1980.
12. "Analysis Social Soundness Terbadap Project Proposal Upland Agriculture
and Conservation Project", di Dati I Java Tengah dan Jawa Timur, John
J. 0.1. Ihalauw, 1983.
$41711






