Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5355-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$90.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AUGUST 10, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 10, 1990)
Currency Unit   =  Lempira (L)
US$ 1.0   =  L 4.2
L 1.0   = US$0.24
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31, 1990
ABBREVIATIONS
BANADESA   -    Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola (Agricultural
Development Bank)
BANASUPRO  =    Suplidora Nacional de Productos BAsicos (National Supplier
of Basic Products)
BCH             Banco Central de Honduras (Central Bank of Honduras)
CEFEX           Certificado de Financiamiento Externo (Tax Return
Certificates)
CETRA      =    Certificado Transferible de Opci6n a Divisas por
Exportacifn (Trading Certificates),
COHDEFOR   =    Corporaci6n Honduretia de Desarrollo Forestal
(Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development)
CONADI     =    Corporaci6n Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (National
Industrial Development Corporation)
ENEE       =    Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (Electric Power
Company)
IHMA       =    Instituto Hondureflo de Mercadeo Agricola (National
Agricultural Marketing Institute)
HONDUTEL   =    Empresa Hondurefia de Telecomunicaciones (National
Telecommunications Company)
SANAA      =    Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillado
(National Water Company)
UNDP       =    United Nations Development Program



HONDURAS                      FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Honduras
Amount:              US$90.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Description:          The proposed loan would support the Government's
structural adjustment program. The main areas covered
by the Government's medium-term program include
measures to: (i) improve incentives to stimulate
private savings and investment in export oriented
activities; (ii) increase public savings and the
efficiency of the public sector; (iii) improve the
commercial banks' mobilization and allocation of
resources; and (iv) improve the productivity of the
private agricultural sector.
Proiect Benefits:    The adjustment program would accelerate export growth
and increase domestic savings while creating the pre-
conditions for a recovery of economic growth and
employment. The program is expected to support the
country's recovery and creditworthiness facilitating
the country's access to external financial flows
needed to attain long-term sustainable growth.
Project Risks:        The principal risk centers on the Government's ability
to maintain the required political consensus to avoid
slippage in the pace of implementation of the reforms.
Another major risk centers on the Government's ability
to generate the required public savings, on negative
shifts on Honduras' terms of trade and on the
country's capacity to obtain sufficient foreign
capital during the initial years of the program.
Estimated
Disbursements:        The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in three
tranches: US$45 million equivalent upon
effectiveness, US$20 million equivalent after a
satisfactory performance review in February 1991, and
the remaining US$25 million equivalent after a
satisfactory performance review to be held in the last
part of CY91.
Appraisal Report:    This is a combined staff appraisal and President's
Report.
MapS                  IBRD 19771
LThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Program Summary
PART I              THE ECONOMY       ............................             2
A. Background ..........     ...........................   2
B. Recent Development and Prospects ....      ...........  3
C. Major Adjustment Issues ......      ..................  4
PART II             THE GOVERNMENT's ECONOMIC PROGRAM ..............           4
A. Balance of Payments .......      .....................  5
B. Public Finances ........      ........................  7
C. Agricultural Incentives ......      ..................    10
D. Financial and Credit Policies .....      .............    11
E. Social Issues ........      ..........................  13
F. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Plan   .......    14
PART III            THE PROPOSED LOAN .................................       17
A. General ............    ............................   17
B. Program to be Supported ......      ..................    17
C. Poverty Impact ........      .........................  21
D. Loan Amount .........     ...........................  22
E. Proposed Tranche Conditionality .....     ...........    22
F. Implementation Assistance .....      .................    26
G. Other Conditions .......      ........................  26
H. Accounts and Audits ......      ......................  26
I. Cofinancing Arrangements .....      ..................    27
J. Program Benefits and Risks .....      ................    27
PART IV             COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS  ...    28
PART V              BANK/IMF RELATIONS ........      ........................  29
PART VI             RECOMMENDATIONS .........     ..........................  30
ANNEXES:
I           Economic Indicators: National Accounts, External
Trade, Balance of Payments, External Capital and
Debt, Public Finance and Credit, Social Indicators
II           Status of Bank Group Operations
III           Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
IV           Matrix of Actions
V           Government Letter of Development Policy
Map :               IBRD 19771



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$90 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a propose..
loan for the equivalent of US$90 million to the Republic of Honduras. The
loan would support the second phase of a structural adjustment program
aimed at achieving balanced and sustainable economic growth. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. Cofinancing from other
multilateral and bilateral agencies has been arranged in an amount
equivalent to US$60 million.
2.       On September 15, 1988, the Executive Directors approved a
US$50 million SAL (Loan 2990-HO) to Honduras in support of the Government's
medium-term adjustment program. Initial implementation of actions agreed
under the SAL--in liberalizing the exchange system, freezing public sector
expenditures, and implementing a three-month monetary program--allowed the
disbursement of the SAL's first tranche during the last quarter of CY88.
But the unwillingness of the Government to reduce public expenditures and
its inability to put through Congress a package of fiscal measures to
increase revenues, resulted in a projected public sector deficit far
greater than the one agreed with the Bank under the SAL program (7.3Z of
GDP), and made it impossible to finalize negotiations with the IMF on a
Stand-by arrangement. As a consequence, progress under the SAL aborted,
and the second tranche of the SAL was not disbursed as programmed. To
finance the large public sector deficits, the Government resorted to
accumulation of arrears in servicing its external debt, including that owed
to the Bank, during 1988-1989. Bank disbursements were suspended in
December 1988, and the country's portfolio was placed in non-accrual status
as of April 1, 1989. The IMF declared the country ineligible on November
30, 1989. The IDB placed the country in non-accrual status in December
1989.
3.       On January 20, 1990, a new administration was inaugurated.  Since
taking office, the Government of President Callejas has stressed its belief
in the importance of renewing the adjustment process for the country's
political and social stability.  On March 2, 1990, the Government initiated
the implementation of strong stabilization/adjustment measures, and
requested IBRDIIMF/IDB support. On June 28, 1990, Honduras cleared all
outstanding arrears with its multilateral creditors. A Paris Club Meeting
to reschedule bilateral official credit has been scheduled for September
1990. Basic understandings between the IMF and Honduras' authorities were
reached, and a Stand-by arrangement was approved by the IMF Board on July
27, 1990. Based upon the actions mentioned above, on July 3, 1990, the
Executive Directors approved disbursement of the first SAL's second
tranche. The program to be supported under a second SAL was appraised by a
World Bank/IDB mission that visited the country in May 1990. The
Government's economic program and the specific policy actions supported by
the second SAL are summarized in Annex IV. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.



PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
4.       Honduras' economic performance in 1989  reflected the fundamental
structural weaknesses in the economy that made long-term growth
unsustainable unless a major economic reform program was implemented. Real
GDP growth fell from 4.7? in 1988, to about 2? in 1989. Gross domestic
investment declined to less than 132 of GDP, and national savings dropped
to 5.8Z of GDP. The overall public sector deficit remained high at 9.2Z of
GDP despite sharp declines in public investment, and public sector savings
were negative(-2X of GDP). The current account deficit of the balance of
payments reached 7.2Z of GDP, and the Government's use of arrears in
servicing the external debt to maintain an overvalued exchange rate
continued deteriorating the competitiveness of Honduras' exports. Net
external financing, including grants was not sufficient to cover the fiscal
deficit, and the Government recurred to domestic financing in an amount
equivalent to 4.5Z of GDP and an accumulation of external arrears amounting
to 4.7? of GDP. The rate of domestic inflation as measured by the WPI
increased to about 20? (10? in 1988), and Honduras' arrears on its external
debt reached US$640 million. By the end of 1989, Honduras had entered into
a stagflation process and the black market exchange rate had reached over
L4/US$l (L2/US$l official).
5.       On March 2, 1990, the Government of President Callejas announced
an economic program to address the economy's major problems. A new exchange
rate regime that brought the average official exchange rate to L4/US$l was
implemented. Foreign exchange transactions are conducted in a free
interbanking exchange market except for Central Government debt service and
debt conversion operations which will remain at the official exchange rate
of L2/US$l. In addition, the Government sent to Congress a revenue package
that by introducing changes in the rate of the sales and other taxes, by
eliminating exemptions in the trade regime, and by imposing temporary taxes
on exports, was expected to increase Central Government revenues from 16?
of GDP in 1989 to 21? of GDP in 1990. Finally, in April 1990, the Honduran
Congress approved a budget submitted by the Government which limits current
expenditures to about 21? oi GDP, turning around the consolidated public
sector savings to about 0.5? of GDP (-2Z in 1989). Despite the effect of
the devaluation on the service of the public debt (an increase of about 2?
of GDP), the overall public sector deficit will be reduced to 6.9Z of GDP,
permitting its financing with only slight recourse to domestic credit (0.5?
of GDP).
6.       The Government remains committed to the stabilization and
adjustment program. Preliminary statistics for the first quarter of CY90
show public sector current expenditures below the targets defined in the
public sector budget agreed with the IMF and Bank, and approved in April
1990 by the Honduran Congress. Additional measures which should further
improve the balance of payments and public sector deficit prospects for
1990, were implemented on May 24, 1990, with the Central Bank announcing an
adjustment on the exchange rate from L4/US$l to L4.20/US$l, closing the gap
between the official interbanking and parallel exchange rate systems to
less than 5X, and improving incentives for export growth. Also, an increase



- 3 -
in the ceiling for the active interest rate from 172 to 192 was announced
and, with exception of credit lines for basic grains, interest rates for
all Central Bank-funded credit lines were increased to 19Z. Besides
improving the balance of payments and public sector deficit prospects,
these actions should improve the credit allocation in the economy, as well
as savings prospects for 1990. If maintained during the rest of the year,
the flexible mahagement of the exchange rate and interest rate will
strongly help the Government in meeting the fiscal and balance of payments
targets.
B. Recent DeveloDments and Prospects
7.       As the initial impact of the March measures filtered down,
employment ar.d growth levels deteriorated. Agricultural production is
expected to increase only slightly this year. Manufacturing, which is just
beginning to absorb the impact of the March adjustments, is slowing down
its production levels. A forecast of zero GDP real growth may be the upper
limit for the year. Inflation also picked up. The CPI increased at an
annualized rate of 35Z in the first four months of the year. As the full
impact of the measures occurs, a slow-down is expected in the inflation
rate for the second half of the year. Nevertheless, the average yearly
inflation rate may well be over 25? before stabilizing around international
levels by 1991; quite above Honduras' historical levels.
8.       Despite the Government's austerity, however, the fiscal situation
has not improved as expected. Revenues in the first quarter of CY90 from
the temporary export taxes and new import tariff structure have fallen
below expectations as revenues from trade-related taxes had a weak
response. While import and export levels appear to be on target, trade-
related tax revenues have failed to fully materialize, because of
administrative deficiencies in the collection process. To revert the first
quarter trend in revenues, the Government is proposing to Congress tariff
increases for the major public sector utilities which could yield an
estimated increase of about L45 million during the remainder of the year,
permitting fulfillment of the deficit and savings targets for the
consolidated public sector established in the Government's economic
program, without recurring to further cuts in current or investment
expenditures.
9.       The stabilization/adjustment measures have improved the country's
long-term balance of payments and growth prospects. If the Government
continues implementing the program started in March, non-traditional
exports such as shrimp farming, melons, vegetables, and garments could
strongly expand. Along with increases in banana production these reforms
could enhance the economy's export prospects rapidly. In addition, the
trade and exchange rate management reforms may also increase production of
basic grains, helping in reducing the balance-of-payments deficit and in
increasing the rates of economic growth and employment creation. The
recession should bottom up by late 1990 and medium-term prospects for
sustainable growth should strongly improve.



-4-
C. Maior Adiustment Issues
10.      As mentioned, looking to the medium to long-term, Honduras'
development prospects are strong. The country has just begun to exploit
the potential which its rich agricultural resources offers, in particular
in the production. of tropical fruits, shrimp farming, and vegetables. In
addition, potential in hydrocarbons and in tourism augur well for future
activities. This potential clearly offers the opportunity for diversified
growth in many sectors of the economy, with excellent prospects for exports
given Honduras easy access to the United States market, and its strong
comparative advantage in agricultural production.
11.      To take full advantage of this potential, however, Honduras needs
to set its development strategy taking into account the major long-term
priorities of human resource development, addressing the problems of
unemployment and widespread poverty, diversifying the economic base, and
ensuring that incentives exist for a private sector led economic growth
process. Thus, despite the progress already made by the Government since
its assumption of power, much remains to be done before Honduras' long-term
growth prospects are sustainable. In particular, the required long-term
adjustments to be addressed include: (i) trade reforms to further reduce
the anti-export bias in the economy; (ii) public sector management reforms
to increase public sector savings and to improve the efficiency of the
public sector current expenditures and investment program;
(iii) elimination of distortions in pricing and marketing policies
affecting agricultural production; and (iv) policies to liberalize credit
and interest rate policies and to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory
framework in the financial sector. The key actions contemplated by the
Government's program in these areas and the proposed SAL II conditionality
are discussed in the following sections.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC PROGRAM
12.      The Government of President Callejas, which took office in January
1990, set out to redefine fundamentally the role of the state through a
radical, but long overdue, economic reform and restructuring program. The
essential aim is to reduce the complex regulatory framework and costly
subsidies which pervade the economy, to encourage private sector
investments through trade reforms, public sector reforms, changes in
pricing and credit policies, financial sector reforms, and establishment of
a long-term macroeconomic framework free of distortions. The reforms which
have already been implemented and those underway reflect the Government's
commitment to extend the stabilization effort to one that will
fundamentally change the structure of the economy. In addition, the
reforms in the management of the public sector are designed to improve the
effectiveness of the Government's public enterprises and social programs,
to serve both long-term adjustment goals and to cushion the temporary
short-term negative social effects that inevitably accompany such far-
reaching reform efforts.
13.      The medium term strategy represents a fundamental change from the
traditional economic policies followed in Honduras. It will eliminate



controls in the trade system and pricing policies, it will maintain a
flexible management of the exchange rate, it will deregulate the financial
system, and will substantially improve the public sector finances and
investment processes. Upon its completion, the policies espoused under the
new economic strategy will reduce the dependence of the economy on coffee
and banana exports through an expansion of non-traditional exports, that
will permit Honduras to achieve a sustainable current account deficit in
its balance of payments consistent with real economic growth of at least
4-52 a year, and to reduce the country's unemployment levels in a
sustainable manner. A brief presentation of the Government's actions and
future policies is given below.
A. Balance of Payments
14.      Exports of coffee and bananas represented 50Z of the total
exchange earnings of the country in the early 80s, and about 60? in the
last couple of years. The concentration of exchange earnings in two
products with unstable international prices has generated wide swings in
Honduras' export earnings, aggravating the country's cyclical balance of
payments crises. Excluding transfers, Honduras' current account deficit of
the balance of payments remained around 10? of GDP until 1985; even after
official transfers, it reached 6.1? of GDP in 1989. Thus, a critical
element to attain a sustainable deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments, lies in the country's capacity to expand its exports.
This could only be achieved by adopting a flexible exchange rate, and by
reducing the anti-export bias of the trade regime.
Table 1: HONIURAS - MAIN BALACE OF PAYMENTS COCEPTS
(U GDP)
1987-73 1974-79  1980  1981  1982  1985  1987  1988  1989
Resource Balance               -1.9  -8.4  -4.2  -7.3  -6.4  -4.6  -2.7  -2.7  -2.8
Current Acct.Bal.(excl. off.transf)  -6.2  -10.0  -13.3  -12.0  -10.1  -9.5  -7.9  -7.5  -7.2
Current Aect. (Incl.off.transf.)    -4.4  -8.7  -12.4  -11.0  -7.8  -5.7  -4.9  -4.8  -8 .1
Long Term Cap. (incl.off.transf.)  2.7   8.2  10.8   8.6   4.4  7.6   8.8   7.7  7.9
E & 0                           0.2  -0.3  -1.6  -0.7   1.5  2.7   1.2   0.9  -0.8
Accumulated Arrears            -0.1   0.1   0.0   0.5   1.5  n.a   9.1   9.2  13.1
15.      As noted in para. 5, on March 2, 1990, the Government modified the
exchange rate system and sent legislation to Congress to reduce the maximum
import tariff rate from 90? to 40X and to eliminate all exemptions and
surcharges (with the exception of Decree Law 18-54) to foreign trade.
Before these actions were taken, a fixed exchange rate system with a rate
of L2fUS$1 had prevailed for over 60 years. To allow greater flexibility in
the exchange rate system, trading certificates (CETRAS) had been introduced
in 1988. CETRAS were issued to exporters by commercial banks in exchange
for deposits of their foreign exchange earnings up to a level of 502 of the
value of the overall transaction in US dollars. CETRAS were then
redeemable at the official exchange rate by any holder of them, closely
reflecting the parallel market exchange rate value. The modifications of
March 2, 1990, eliminated the CETRA system and established a free inter-
banking parallel exchange rate market for all transactions, de-facto



- 6 -
liberalizing the exchange rate regime. The Government has committed itself
to follow up with a flexible exchange rate system as part of the agreement
reached with the IMF on a Stand-by. Fulfillment of this policy will be
considered an essential element in the SAL II program.
16.      On March 1, 1990, the minimum nominal import tariff was 1X, the
maximum was 90Z, the average tariff was 202, and the dispersion measured by
the coefficient of variation was 0.96. When surcharges were added, the
maximum import tariff became 1251, the average tariff 442, and the
coefficient of variation was 0.65. Weighting by domestic production, the
average protection rate was 562 and the effective protection in
manufacturing was estimated at 942. In 1989, the hypothetical revenue
derived from import tariffs and surcharges should have been 322 of the
total value of imports. Due to exemptions actual collection was
significantly lower (22Z).
17.      The trade reform approved by Congress on March 2, 1990,
substantially changed the trade regime. The range in nominal tariffs was
reduced to 2-402, only two surcharges remain (51 for customs services and
102 for imports of cars, tires and some consumer goods) and, with the
exception of exemptions provided under bilateral arrangements which
comprise less than 5Z of total imports, all exemptione were eliminated. In
the short run the effect of the devaluation on customs valuation
compensated for the tariff reductions. From a long-term perspective the
new protection structure is more transparent and efficient than it was
before. This improvement in transparency and efficiency was made without
worsening, but rather improving fiscal collection.
18.      In addition to the improvements mentioned, the Government is
committed to continue the trade reform. The process of trade
liberalization set in motion will be intensified. Import tariffs and
surcharges will be merged into a single tariff to prevent having separate
regimes for tariffs and surcharges; the trade regime will be redefined
accordingly.
19.      There are no formal quotas or import prohibitions in Honduras
except in the case of basic grains where imports are authorized only if
domestic demand exceeds domestic supply. However, all imports require
prior licenses approved by the Central Bank in a discretionary manner.
Until March 1990, the exchange rate differential between preferred and non-
preferred imports made import licenses act as a variable tariff surcharge
in non-preferred imports. The Government has indicated its unwillingness to
use import licensing to define an official and non-official external trade
regime. Import licenses, as well as quantitative restrictions on basic
grains will be totally eliminated. As a first step, the Government has
reduced the period for granting -n import license from 30 days to a maximum
of 15 days in July 1990. The Government intends to continue this process
by eliminating all import restrictions and by replacing Central Bank import
licenses with a system of import registration by which imports are
automatically authorized once they are registered for statistical purposes.
20.      Prior to March 2, 1990, Honduras used three kinds of export
incentives: (a) temporary admission; (b) CEFEX (Tax return certificates);
and (c) free zones. Under the temporary admission regime, exporters are
exempted from import tariffs and surcharges and from sales and other



domestic indirect taxes incorporated in the domestic price of imports. In
addition, profits are exempted from income taxes. These benefits only
accrued to exports outside the Central America region. The CEFEX was a tax
rebate of between 10-152 (depending on domestic value-added), of the value
of non-traditional exports in excess of the historical export level
registered by the producer. The CEFEX and temporary admission system were
not mutually exclusive. Free export zones are regulated by two laws; one
applies to the areas francas of Puerto Cortes and La Ceiba on the Caribbean
coast run by the Government, the other promotes privately managed parpues
industriales. In both cases the legislation exempts 'maquiladoras" from
paying trade and any other domestic taxes.
21.      The CEFEX regime was abolished on March 2, 1990.  Fiscal subsidies
on non-traditional exports will not be reestablished. The Government
understands that export subsidies inhibit real exchange rate depreciation
and, given the scarcity of fiscal resources, they could not be granted to
all exporters. Thus, the Government will ensure an adequate incentive
system by maintaining a competitive real exchange rate. A flexible
management of the nominal exchange rate, continuation of the trade
liberalization process, and sound fiscal measures will be better policy
alternatives that the Government will follow, rather than granting
excessive fiscal incentives to exporters.
22.      At the same time that the exchange rate system and trade regime
were modified, the Government sent to Congress a package of fiscal measures
which, although required for short-term stabilization purposes, affects
export prospects. Indeed, the imposition of temporary taxes on the value of
exports (9% to non-traditional and 122 to traditional products) should be
eliminated as soon aa possible, and the reduction in fiscal revenues
derived from these taxes will have to be substituted with alternative tax
measures.
23.      In sum, the Government's reform program for the trade system
consists of: (i) elimination of the taxes on non-traditional exports during
1990, and on traditional exports by December 1991; (ii) elimination of the
Central Bank import permits by mid-1991; (iii) adjustment of the tariff
system to a maximum of 202 and a minimum of 5X over a two year period; (iv)
elimination of all quantitative restrictions during 1991; and (v) the
implementation of a revamped export incentive system by end-1991.
B. Public Finances
24.      Honduras' most pressing problem is its ongoing fiscal crisis. Low
public savings and large public sector deficits have been financed with
increasing levels of external debt and, for the past two years, with
increased levels of money expansion. As a result of this, the country's
major economic asset, its price stability, is in danger of being lost,
hampering the implementation of a private sector-led growth strategy as the
large public sector borrowing requirements squeeze out private sector
investment.
25.      Public savings (excluding transfers) fell from more than 5  of GDP
in the late 1970s to -22 in 1989, as current expenditures grew faster than
current revenues from 1980-89 (Table 2 ). Fixed public investment dropped



from 102 of GDP in the late 1970s, and in the early 1980s during the
construction of the large E1 Caj6n hydroelectric project, to 7a of GDP in
1989. The reductions in the public sector deficit from a peak of over 12X
of GDP in 1983 to 7.42 in 1988, took place at the expense of public
investment. The estimated increase in the consolidated non-financial
deficit to around 9.2S of GDP in 1989 augurs difficult times ahead, since
it did not correspond to an increase in public sector investment. The
increase in public savings needed to permit sustainable growth in the
medium term will require both increased revenues and modifications in
public expenditure patterns.
Table 2: HONURAS - CONSOLIDATED KWD-FIWANCAL PUBLIC SECTOR
(Percent of Current GOP)
1980  1984   1986   1988   1987   1988   1989
Current Revenues           22.9  258   28.3  25.8  28.5  26.0  25.7
(of which Taxes)         14.2  14.2  14.8  13.4  14.2  13.9  14.0
Current Expenditures       20.1  23.9  24.9  24.7  26.8  28.1  27.6
(o/w) Wages A salarioe     17.0  19.4  19.3  18.9  19.8  19.4  19.6
Interests              2.2  38?    4.1   5.7   8.2   8.2   6.4
(on ext. debt)        1.6    -     -      2.8   1.9   8.3   4.2
Public Sector Savings       2.8   1.7   1.4   0.6   0.7  -0.   -1.9
Capital Expenditures       11.9  12.8   9.0   8.7   7.3   7.3   7.3
Overall Balance            -9.1  -11.2  -7.6  -8.   -8.6  -7.4  -9.2
External Financing, Net     6.7   8.5   5.8   2.8   8.8   3.5   4.0
Domestic Financing, Net     8.8   0.8   0.3   1.5   2.0   2.8   4.6
Foreign Grants              0.1   1.9   1.6    i.7   1.3   1.3   0.7
Source: Banco Central de Honduras.
26.      As part of its economic program for 1990, the Government has
limited wage increases to a maximum of 10? during the year and has budgeted
a reduction in real terms of 102 in Government purchases of goods and
services. In addition, in an effort to commence with further
rationalization of current expenditures, in April, 1990, the Government
laid-off 3,000 public employees, many of which had been hired as temporary
staff. The effort is expected to limit total Central Government
expenditures in 1990 to L3.1 billion and contribute to an overall reduction
in the public sector deficit to 6.9? of GDP in 1990 and turn around public
se-tor savings from -2Z of GDP in 1989 to O.5Z of GDP in 1990. An increase
to at least two percentage points of GDP in 1991 in public sector savings
is the initial target of the Government's program.
27.      Reforms in the tax system are key to strengthening the medium-term
finances of the central government; thus, they have become a central
element in the Government's economic reform program. The main objectives
of the Government's fiscal reform are:
a) administrative improvements in management of the customs
system anid in the collection of the sales tax; and,



b) a tax reform modifying the structure and rates of income,
property and value-added taxes with a view to eliminating
any distortions and disincentives to production that exist
in the current structure and shifting more of the tax burden
directly related to the external sector away from it. Such
an adjustment will be extremely important to permit
liberalization of the trade regime to take place with a
minimum of fiscal sacrifice.
Steps are already being taken to strengthen customs administration through
the establishment of computerized procedures and improving the quality and
increasing the remuneration of the staff. An 18-month program of
administrative reforms has been agreed with the Bank and a study, needed to
set the basis for the tax reform required to support the long-term
viability of the Government's adjustment program, will be initiated in
September 1990.
28.      The Government is also committed to maintaining a public
investment program with an appropriate balance between the limited priority
investments needed for strengthening non-traditional exports and necessary
basic social infrastructure. To help the Government identify additional
possibilities for efficient expenditure cuts, as well as to evaluate the
existing list of possible projects for formulation of a public investment
program, the Bank undertook a public sector expenditure review (PSER) in
FY89. Agreement on a 1990 public investment program between the Bank and
the Government has been reached. The Government has requested a new Bank
mission to review the 1991/1992 public investment program. Such a request
will be satisfied as part of the SAL II program.
29.      The public enterprises in Honduras have added to the burden of the
fiscal deficit and external public debt service. The public enterprise
sector grew at an extraordinary rate in the 1960s and 1970s, reflecting the
Government's effort to spearhead economic development, create employment,
and promote the growth of underdeveloped areas. However, the sector has
performed erratically, and its contribution to the national economy has not
been commensurate with the amount of resources it has absorbed. Some
public enterprises have developed an excessive and unsustainable dependence
on public financing.   At the same time, a rapid build-up of Government
arrears to some public utilities threatens their financial viability.
30.      A program for the restructuring and adjustment of the major public
enterprises is under preparation at the Ministries of Finance, Economy and
Planning. Basic 1990-1991 financial programs for SANAA (water and
sewerage), and HONDUTEL (telecommunications) have been defined within the
Government's fiscal targets. The Government is considering several actions
to redress these inefficiencies, for example, permanent staff employment
has been frozen and employment of temporary staff cut in 1990; financial
targets to increase the revenues of public enterprises to at least 1? of
GDP in 1991 and each of the next two years have been defined, and the
investment program of public utilities is being redesigned, emphasizing
utilization of existing capacity rather than development of new projects.
The Government also contemplates, as an essential element, the refinancing
of a significant fraction of the enterprises' external debt.



- 10 -
31.      In addition to the attainment of financial targets as indicated
before, the Government is committed to reduce the size of the public
enterprise sector. As part of the agreements reached with the USAID, the
Government is carrying out a rationalization program that, besides reducing
the number of public enterprises, should provide valuable short-term
revenues to the Central Government from the sale of some of them. The
program began in 1987 and so far, eleven enterprises formerly belonging to
the state investment corporation (CONADI) have been privatized, in part
through a program of debt equity swaps. Through end-1990, the Government
plans to sell to the private sector at least five more enterprises. In
addition, the Government is evaluating the privatization of several
decentralized agencies and public enterprises outside CONADI, such as the
state wood monopoly (CODEHFOR) and a tourist development complex (DINOTUR).
An evaluation of the estimated revenues derived from the sale of these
enterprises during 1990 was made by USAID. If fully implemented, the
process of privatization would yield L144 million, about 4.2? of total
Central Government revenues for 1990.
C. ARricultural Incentives
32.      Agriculture is the most important sector of the Honduran economy,
employing more than S0 of the labor force, accounting for over 20? of GDP,
and generating over two thirds of export earnings. Fueled by favorable
external markets, especially for bananas and coffee, agriculture production
reached a peak in 1978. Non-traditional agricultural exports lagged,
affected by the discrimination created by an incentive system which favored
manufacturing over agriculture and by the Government's intervention in
domestic markets for agricultural commodities and factors of production,
which failed to prevent a fast deterioration of the agriculture/non-
agriculture terms of trade. The Government's direct involvement in the
marketing of basic grains through its purchasing and marketing institutions
(IHMA, BANASUPRO), and of subsidized credit through its financial company
(BANADESA) only compounded the inefficiencies of the overall agricultural
policies. BANADESA, the Government owned agricultural development bank and
the main source of institutional credit to small-scale farmers, faces
significant losses and liquidity problems due to high operational costs,
loss of credit discipline among its borrowers and therefore severe problems
of loan recovery. Moreover, price setting for basic grains, intended to
provide cheap food to consumers and remunerate farmers adequately, resulted
in high fiscal losses. However, Government's agricultural services and
credit, aimed at supporting production, had poor coverage and failed to
protect farm income, particularly those of the lower income strata of the
population.
33.      The basic problem in agriculture was one of undoing the negative
effects of the incentive system and the Government's intervention in the
agricultural markets. Complementing the general improvement in the
incentive framework derived from the adoption of a flexible exchange rate
regime and the elimination of trade restrictions (paras. 15-23), the
Government's program includes measures to gradually bring agricultural
prices in line with international prices by eliminating price controls at
the wholesale and retail levels, and by eliminating quantitative controls
on imports of basic grains.



- 11 -
34.      IHMA and BANASUPRO's purchasing and marketing activities will be
increasingly transferred to the private sector. IHMA's profits derive only
from its monopolistic power to import grains. Despite these profits, it
kas accumulated a loss in its global operations of over US$15 million.
After restrictions to import grains are eliminated, IHMA's losses will
accumulate even faster. Since it is already suffering large losses and it
is decapitalized, IHKA would need a major injection of capital to continue
operating. This would imply a high fiscal cost which the Government knows
it cannot afford. As part of its economic reform program, the Government
has indicated to IHMA's management that a gradual reduction in Central
Government transfers will take place in 1990/1991 and that unnecessary
functions, such as some drying/storaging activities should be privatized.
35.      Since 1980, BANASUPRO has operated with losses that in 1989
reached about 62 of total sales. Though grants from the EEC and other
bilateral donors helped cover losses in the past, such donations have
dropped sharply since 1987, eroding BANASUPRO's capital. BANASUPRO was
created to become the main channel for distribution of basic goods to
isolated areas of Honduras. It has grown to 110 distribution centers of
which about half are in the two largest cities of the country: San Pedro
Sula and Tegucigalpa. It has become, therefore, accessible to relatively
well-off groups, resulting in subsidization of many consumers outside the
target group at a high fiscal cost. The Government intends to discontinue
BANASUPRO's activities in relatively well-off areas in urban centers,
adjust its prices periodically to reflect market prices more closely,
purchase its products in a competitive environment, and reduce its
subsidies to targeted groups.
36.      As part of the adjustment program, the Government has defined a
restructuring plan for the next two years with specific targets to reduce
BANASUPRO's non-rural stores, replace the current wholesale and retail
price controls on agricultural goods and the guarantee price system for
basic grains, eliminate IHMA's monopolistic power to import basic grains,
and privatize some of IHMA's storage and drying operations. These reforms
will substantially reduce the transfers from the Central Government to
these institutions by end-1992.
D. Financial and Credit Policies
37.      In order for the financial sector to play a role in the
development effort envisaged, it needs to increase its intermediation
efficiency and strengthen its long-term viability. To increase the
sector's efficiency, the Government's program contemplates measures
to: (i) provide a flexible interest rate policy, and (ii) eliminate
directed credit. To strengthen the financial system's long-term viability,
the Government's program includes actions to: (i) strengthen the quality
of the commercial banks portfolio; (ii) reach adequate provisions against
bad debts ratio; (iii) reduce the concentration of credit in individuals
and corporations related to the corresponding banks' shareholders; and
(iv) strengthen the Superintendency of Banks.
38.      Deposit rates in Honduras are unregulated, and in 1989, annual
interest rates on savings deposits ranged between 4? and 10Z, while time
deposits earned 8Z to 14Z. Lending rates are subject to ceilings,



- 12 -
established according to the source of funds. For loans from commercial
banks' own funds, the ceiling has been at 17? since February 1987; for
loans from rediscount lines, these rates currently range between 5? and
16X. Interest rate policies have also been strongly influenced by
management of domestic public debt.  In an effort to attract financing, the
Government issued tax-free bonds and made the bonds redeemable on demand at
the Central Bank. When combined with the high reserve ratio requirements
(15 to 35Z), and the availability of tax-free government bonds, the control
of interest rates leads to financial disintenmediation and credit
misallocation. First, real deposit rates are now highly negative, a fact
which may lead to a reduction in financial intermediation during 1990.
Second, the reserve requirements and the availability of tax-free,
redeemable-on-demand government bonds limits the amount of deposits that
the banks are willing to hold. On the other hand, the ceiling on lending
interest rates reduces the incentives for banks to differentiate pricing of
term deposits, reducing the incentives for the growth of term deposits in
the economy. Third, negative real interest rates in the face of
expectations of devaluation encourage capital flight.
39.      The Central Bank of Honduras has been active in the credit
allocation process through the use of rediscount lines. The share of
Central Bank credit in the banking system's total resources increased from
19? in 1980, to 24? in 1989. Implementation of directed credit programs
has led to several unfortunate results. First, it has reduced incentives
for commercial banks to increase efforts in resource mobilization. Second,
it has delayed the exit of many inefficient firms by subsidizing their
activities. Third, it has increased the administrative costs for financial
intermediation by imposing special conditions to administer the lines of
credit. Finally, it has hampered the creation and growth of long-term
credit and equity markets.
40.      As part of the package of measures implemented by the Government
since March 2, 1990, active interest rates were increased from 17? to 19?.
As part of a medium-term adjustment program, interest rates are now to be
determined flexibly, with the Central Bank Board meeting regularly to set
ceilings consistent with the flexible exchange rate and monetary growth
targets. Honduran law requires the Central Bank to set ceilings on active
interest rates. Nevertheless, with a flexible exchange rate and specific
monetary targets, the ceiling cannot be far from what would be market
levels.
41.      In addition, the Government's medium-term adjustment program
contemplates measures to reduce the level of directed credit financed
through the Central Bank, and a gradual reduction in the amounts of
subsidized credit in the economy.
42.      Honduras financial sector is limited in scope but relatively large
for the size of the country. In 1989, the system included 14 commercial
banks, three development banks, one industrial finance corporation and six
savings and loan associations, for a total (excluding the Central Bank) of
24 financial institutions. In addition, limited information on non-bank
financial intermediaries shows that there are about 2,800 informal non-
financial intermediaries, of which about 400 are active. The formal
banking system is monitored by the Superintendency of Banks, a semi-
autonomous department of the Central Bank.



- 13 -
43.      Private commercial banks are the most important segment of the
financial sector. They hold 91? of the system's assets, nearly 91Z of its
deposits, and more than 70? of its short-term liabilities. The commercial
banks obtain 84? of their resources from private sectot deposits, and 16?
from Central Bank rediscount and credit lines. About 69Z of the funds are
used for lending: 46? to the private sector and 23Z to the public sector.
44.      The recent stabilization measures, and the introduction of a
strong adjustment program, may weaken the commercial banks' portfolios.
Changes in the incentive system will affect many firms currently oriented
to produce for the domestic market. The fall in domestic demand will
aggravate their situation. As subsidies are phased out and interest rates
raised, many firms will find it increasingly difficult to service their
debt. Finally, the shift in relative prices may affect the real value of
assets provided as guarantee in many loans. As a result, some banks may
find their financial situation unsustainable and demand Central Bank
subsidies to remain afloat.
45.      Preventive solutions to these potential problems are indispensable
for the country's long-term growth process. As part of its program the
Government intends to strengthen the power of the Superintendency of Banks
providing it with the capacity to: (i) impose remedial actions addressing
non-compliance of prudential regulations regarding portfolio
classification, capital adequacy, provisioning levels, and lending to
related parties; and (ii) intervene in distressed financial institutions.
E. Social Issues
46.      The initial effects of the adjustment measures implemented by the
Government may increase unemployment and poverty levels. The sharp
reduction in domestic expenditures sought for 1990-1991 will transitorily
reduce employment. The sharp price adjustments required for the
stabilization process will fuel inflation in the initial stages of the
program. Although no reliable statistics yet exist, preliminary indications
show the CPI rising at an annualized rate of over 352 in the first three
months of the year. Although the measures should slow down inflation
towards the end of the year, the price increases will have negative
consequences on real incomes of poor urban and rural consumers adversely
affecting health and nutrition indicators. According to an informal study
prepared by a private consulting firm, the initial loss of current jobs in
the economy could range from 26,000 to 52,000, as the adjustment measures
take their toll in public employment (10 to 20,000), highly protected
industries (4 to 8,000), construction (7 to 14,000), and other sectors (5
to 10,000). Although the study does not take into consideration the job
creation aspects of the adjustment program, it cannot be denied that in the
short run unemployment will increase.
47.      The Government is acutely aware of the initial negative social
impact of many of the measures needed for long-term sustainable growth. It
has made it a point to define public sector initiatives that will improve
social services over the next two years, particularly to mitigate the
consequences for the poor and vulnerable of the necessary economic
adjustment measures. Given the scarcity of domestic resources, it will be



- 14 -
critical to target them efficiently on the neediest groups. This is
especially true of subsidy payments, which should be made explicit in
Government finances, and restricted to the poorest. Honduras should try to
attract the maximum possible resources from abroad to supplement domestic
efforts in this sector.
48.      As an initial step, in the 1990 budget approved by Congress, about
LIOO million were approved to: set up an Emergency Social Fund (FHIS),
which should provide emergency employment by funding small works in
Honduras' municipalities, finance a targeted program of family subsidies
which will provide school books and uniforms and targeted food programs for
children of poor families, and temporarily subsidize fuel prices for public
urban transportation which will help to limit increases in bus fares. The
Bank has indicated to the authorities that it is willing to participate in
the definition of a sound social program to ameliorate the impact of the
adjustment effort on the poorest sectors of the population. The
Authorities are aware of this, and requested Bank support in defining a
comprehensive social emergency program to complement their economic
adjustment program. Preparation of a Bank loan to support such a social
emergency program is underway.
F. Medium-term Prospects and Financing Plan
49.      The full potential of the Honduran economy has been constrained
during the 80s by the deterioration of the terms of trade and by the
misallocation of resources created by the Government's macroeconomic
policies. Although little can be done to avoid the effects of external
shocks on the domestic economy, a shift in domestic policies away from
protectionism and Government intervention in the economy should encourage
the private sector to invest in activities where Honduras holds a strong
international comparative advantage. With the appropriate exchange rate
policy, trade liberalization should increase the real exchange rate,
shifting resources toward the production of exportable goods where Honduras
is internationally competitive such as banana, coffee, shrimp farming,
vegetable production, and fruit to be supplied in the Northern winter
period such as melon, watermelon, etc. Moreover, efficient import
substitution would complement the effects of export expansion by reducing
the country's imports of basic grains. Because of the high labor content
of all these activities, Honduras' unemployment rate would gradually drop
and employment would shift from subsidized jobs (in Government or supported
by the Government's protectionist policies), to long-term sustainable jobs.
50.      The adjustment of the exchange rate taken at the beginning of 1990
and the fiscal adjustment measures envisaged by the Government would result
in a real devaluation that restores the purchasing power parity of the
early 1970s. Although import volumes are initially squeezed as their
domestic currency price rises, Honduras' cost competitiveness strongly
rises as the Government's trade liberalization measures are implemented.
Conversion of non-tariff barriers to tariffs will increase public sector
revenues. Over the medium-term, however, trade liberalization reduces the
revenue impact of this and changes the pattern of imports. Border pricing
will eliminate distortions affecting the agricultural sector productivity.
Interest rate liberalization and an ending to credit allocation policies
will increase private savings and private investment. Honduras growth



_ 15 -
would be sustained by more diversified export-oriented activities and a
higher generation of domestic savings.
51.      Bank projections (Annex I) indicate that implementation of the
scabilization and adjustment measures would preserve Honduras' price
stability, strengthen long-term growth prospects, and improve the balance
of payments situation. Public savings would turn around from negative in
1987-89 to around 4.5Z of GDP in 1995. Despite an increase in capital
expenditures, the overall public sector deficit would fall to 2.8Z of GDP
by 1995, allowing a drop in the net domestic financing to the public sector
from 4.5Z in 1989 to less than 12 in 1995. Led by the private sector,
total investment would recover, reaching 20X of GDP in 1995.
52.      Acceleration in the growth of non-traditional exports would result
from the liberalization of the trade regime, and the flexible management of
the market exchange rate which would provide incentives for private sector
investment in export-oriented activities.   Real exports would grow at
about 7Z per annum after 1992, with non-traditional exports increasing at a
rate of almost 9? per annum. The rate of GDP growth would slowly increase,
reaching almost 41 in 1993 and after initially jumping in response to the
exchange rate adjustment of 1990, the current account deficit of the
balance of payments would fall to around 5? of GDP.
53.      The 1990-1995 financing requirements for this scenario are shown
in Table 3, along with the likely sources. The projected requirements
assume that Honduras' outstanding commercial arrears are eliminated by full
refinancing during 1990. Although gross fund requirements would remain
large (because scheduled amortization is expected to be quite heavy--on the
order of US$ 150 million until 1994, 32 of GDP in 1989 -91), the economy
becomes less dependent on foreign transfers. All debt indicators would
improve. Inflows from grants are projected to drop from US$175 million in
1990 to about US$80 million in 1995. A large portion, however, remains
financed by bilateral sources, indicating the importance of Honduras'
Consultative Group in mobilizing resources from bilateral and multilateral
sources (if the Government's commitment to policy adjustments is carried
out) to ensure the success of the program.



- 16 -
TABLE 8: HONDURAS PROJECTED FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
I. Gross Financing Requirements   462.9   428.4   480.8  388.8   862.9   868.2  s86.6
A. Current Account Balance     350.4   800.8   818.8   282.2   224.0   195.7  187.0
o/w MLT Interest            167.0   172.5   198.2  202.4   194.2   197.0  199.5
B. Amortization Payments       137.5    81.7    89.0  11.2   107.3   122.8  138.2
C. Buildup of Reserves         -26.0    40.0    75.0    25.4    81.8    88.2   53.3
II. Sources                       482.9   428.4   480.8   388.8   382.9   868.2  358.6
A. Official Grants             52.1   175.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   80.0   80.0
S. Net Direct Investment       87.4    60.0    60.0    46.0    40.0    40.0   40.0
C. Public MLT Disbursements   206.2   848.2   311.0   228.2   189.6  195.8  204.3
!. World Bank Group          I.8   106.0   99.2    38.7    18.9    13.8  20.4
2. IDB                      34.9    70.0    94.6    60.5    48.0    60.5   78.0
8. IMF Net Flow             -0.4    19.4   21.6    15.0    0.0    -5.8   -8.3
4. Bilaterals               81.8    95.8   49.1    57.9    66.7    89.8   60.6
S. Other Public DBT         87.L    58.0   48.8    54.1    57.0    57.5  58.8
D. Private Source 1           168.2  -154.9    19.8    17.8   38.8    40.5   84.2
Memo Item:
Accumulated DS Arrears 2        641.0     0.0     0.0     0.6     0.0      0.0    0.0
I/  Includes net short term, errors and omissions and arrears.
2/ Arrears to the Bank, Fund and IDB have been cleared; the rest
are assumed to be rescheduled.



- 17 -
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. General
54.      The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan would support the
Government's 1990-91 action program of economic adjustment and recovery.
The loan was prepared with the Government during February 1990. Appraisal
took place in May/June 1990. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C.
between July 19 and 20, 1990 and completed on August 9, 1990. The Honduran
delegation was headed by Mr. Ricardo Maduro, President of the Central Bank.
The following paragraphs describe the components of the SAL program, which
are summarized in Annex IV. Annex V contains the Government's Letter of
Development Policy addressed to the Bank. The Supplementary Data Sheet is
provided as Annex III.
55.      The loan of US$90 million equivalent would be disbursed in three
tranches over a period of about 18 months. The SAL program addresses the
most critical medium-term structural issues affecting the domestic
competitive environment, the management of the public sector, issues of the
agricultural and the financial sector, and the overall macro framework for
the adjustment program. The Government's program is also being supported
by the IMF and IDB through a Stand-by and the cofinancing of the
agricultural portion of the SAL respectively. The IMF program is focused
primarily on aggregate macro-economic performance issues and targets,
notably the exchange rate regime, levels of fiscal deficits, and overall
monetary policies. Close cooperation between the IMF, IDB and the Bank has
been essential to ensure consistency and avoid overlap. Satisfactory
progress on the overall economic program, with specific reference to the
macro-economic targets established for 1990-91 (maintenance of exchange
rate flexibility, flexibly determined interest rate ceilings, fiscal
deficit levels) will be monitored closely as conditions for tranche
releases of the SAL.
B. Program to be Supported
Trade Reform Actions
56.      Exports of new products remained small through 1987.  Recently,
however, development of these exports has accelerated, reaching an
estimated US$210 million in 1989 (21.7? of total exports). Shrimp
farming, garments and fruits and vegetables dominate this item in the
balance of payments. In combination with an expected reorientation of
basic manufacturing goods, these items will provide the bulk of new
exports. This assumes the maintenance of a satisfactory package of
incentives, including a realistic exchange rate and a significant reduction
of effective protection in import competing activities.
57.      The initial reform of Honduras' trade and foreign exchange
regimes, described in paras 15-23, improved its trade prospects. The real



- 18 -
exchange rate has depreciated by over 25Z. As part of its agreement with
the IMF, the Government has confirmed its decision to follow macro-economic
and exchange rate policies aimed at maintaining, and improving the
competitiveness of its exports. As part of the reforms supported under the
second SAL, the dispersion and level of import tariffs will be further
reduced. With the adjustment of March 2. 1990, Honduras' trade regime has
a tariff range of 40-2% and no exemptions, or country surcharges. A
further adjustment to 35-4Z will be defined as a condition for second
tranche disbursement. A final adjustment to 20-5? will be defined as a
condition for third tranche disbursement.
58.      Elimination of all Central Bank import permits will be another
major element of the SAL II program. Elimination of all Central Bank
import licenses will be a condition of the SAL's second tranche. In
addition, all quantitative restrictions for imports of agricultural
products will be eliminated before disbursement of the SAL's second
tranche. In addition, the temporary taxes on exports imposed in March
1990, will be eliminated during the program. As a condition of second
tranche disbursement, temporary export taxes on non-traditional products
(9Z) will be eliminated, and all temporary export taxes on traditional
products (122) will be eliminated during 1991. As a condition of third
tranche disbursement, satisfactory progress in the elimination of temporary
taxes in traditional exports will be required.
59.      Fiscal export subsidies to nontraditional exports are a poor
substitute for real exchange rate depreciation, one that complicates the
incentive system and discriminates against some exporters who, given the
scarcity of fiscal resources, do not have access to those incentives. The
incentive framework for promoting exports to markets outside the region
needs to be strengthened and new legislation provided in accordance with
internationally accepted procedures. The Government has already eliminated
the CEFEX system and committed itself to a flexible management of the
exchange rate regime; it now needs to introduce a new Export Incentive Law.
Under the new law, only import taxes on inputs and capital goods should be
exonerated, eliminating the current exempticns from domestic indirect and
direct taxes. Agreement on recommendations of a study for a new export
incentive system and an action program will be a condition for the second
tranche disbursement. implementation of the new export incentive system
will be a condition for third tranche disbursement.
Public Sector Actions
60.      Limitations on the growth of current expenditures, care in
defining and implementing an efficient public investment program and
strengthening of the cost effectiveness of public enterprises are major
objectives of the Government's medium-term adjustment program. As an
indication of its commitment to implement them, the Government has defined
annual public savings targets of 0.5Z of GDP for 1990, and of 1.7? of GDP
for 1991. Fulfillment of the 1990 target and a 1991 Central Government
Budget with targets to increase the non-financial consolidated public
sector savings to 1.72 of GDP in 1991 are conditions for the disbursement
of the SAL's second tranche. Satisfactory compliance with year-to-date
consolidated non-financial public sector savings and expenditure targets,
as established in the 1991 public sector budget, will be conditions for the
SAL's third tranche release.



- 19 -
61.      Administrative improvements on management of the customs system
and the collection of taxes could quickly provide increases in public
sector revenues. The Bank has reached agreement with the Government on a
1990/1991 action program to improve the administration of the tax system's
collection. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of this action
program will be the conditions for the disbursements of the SAL's second
and third tranches.
62.      To ensure the long-term sustainability of the economic program, a
tax reform will be needed to substitute revenues from trade taxes to income
and consumption taxes. Disbursement of the loan's second tranche would
depend on a satisfactory agreement between the Bank and the Government on
recommendations of a study on tax reform and the action plan to implement
them. Submission of legislation for such a tax reform is a condition for
the disbursement of the loan's third tranche.
63.      A projected 1990 investment program was agreed during appraisal of
the loan. The program contains major improvements over the one previously
reviewed by the Bank in the 1988 PSER mission which visited Honduras in
October 1988. Taking into account the magnitude of projected public savings
and capital inflows, the sustainable size of the program agreed was
estimated to be about 7.5 percent of GDP annually. Compliance with the
agreed 1990 financial targets for the public investment program, and
agreement on a 1991 public sector investment program are conditions for the
disbursement of the loan's second tranche. Disbursement of the SAL's third
tranche would be contingent on verification that year-to-date capital
expenditures fell within the targets agreed in the 1991 investment program
agreed with the Bank and agreement on a 1992 pvblic sector investment
program.
64.      During appraisal of the loan, the Bank's assessment was that, in
addition to the Government's privatization program, reform of the public
enterprise system requires strengthening of the internal organization and
management of the enterprises themselves. Administrative reforms for the
main public enterprises to be carried out by the Government are being
supported by USAID, IDB, UNDP, and the Bank. A financial program defining
targets for tariff adjustments, reductions in current expenditures, and
external debt service was defined during appraisal for the two largest
decentralized institutions (HONDUTEL, SANAA). Achievement of savings of
0.3Z of GDP in 1990 for SANAA and HONDUTEL will be a condition for the
disbursement of the SAL's second tranche. Achievement of projected savings
of 1Z GDP in 1991 will be a condition for the disbursement of the SAL's
third tranche.
Agricultural Policies
65.      The Government intends to reverse its pre-1990 policies for
agriculture. The guarantee price system and quantitative restrictions on
basic grains currently administered by IHMA will be eliminated and in the
case of corn replaced by a flexible tariff system. Public sector
interference in marketing of other agricultural goods will be phased out.
To that end, IHMA and BANASUPRO's purchasing and marketing activities are
to be increasingly transferred to the private sector, with prices



- 20 -
determined competitively. The Government. however, still feels a
commitment to protect certain groups (small farmers, poor urban dwellers)
that benefitted from the old strategy. Under the actions to ensure
protection to the neediest groups of the Honduran society, the Government
is committed to implement a targeted assistance program. The action
program to implement such assistance will be agreed upon as part of the
Bank's social sector loan under preparation.
66.      During appraisal, an action program was agreed to change the
current guarantee price system and marketing practices for basic grains.
The program includes: (i) the elimination of IHMA's monopolistic trade
restrictions; (ii) replacement of the guarantee price system for corn with
a variable tariff system; (iii) a rationalization program for IHMA's
storage and drying facilities; (iv) elimination of price controls on
agricultural products; and, (v) a rationalization program for BANASUPRO's
purchasing and marketing activities.
67.      Second tranche disbursement will be contingent on: (i) elimination
of all import restrictions for agricultural products; (ii) the replacement,
starting with the crop year 1991/1992 of the current guarantee price system
with a variable tariff system for corn; (iii) elimination of all other
agricultural guarantee prices; (iv) elimination of all agricultural price
controls; (v) satisfactory progress in the rationalization program for
BANASUPRO and IHMA; and (vi) reduction of Central Government and/or Central
Bank transfers and/or loans in support of BANASUPRO's operations to a
maximum of L4 million for 1991. Disbursement of the third tranche will be
contingent on: (i) satisfactory compliance with the implementation of the
agreed guarantee price system for corn (ii) satisfactory progress in the
BANASUPRO and IHMA rationalization programs; and (iii) reduction of Central
Government and/or Central Bank operational transfers and/or loans to
BANASUPRO to a maximum of L2 million for 1991.
Financial Sector Actions
68.      In May, 1990, the Honduran authorities initiated a financial
program aimed at providing more flexible interest rates and eliminating
credit allocation by increasing the maximum active interest rate from 17Z
to 19Z, and reducing the credit subsidies given by the Central Bank. The
financial system, however, still preserves many special programs for the
allocation of credit. These programs establish credit to be allocated at
subsidized rates from domestic and foreign funds. The distortions created
in the Honduran financial intermediation process by Government intervention
in interest rate setting and credit allocation should be completely
eliminated.
69.      The action program agreed under the loan includes measures to: (i)
eliminate the difference between each rediscount interest rate presently
applied to Central Bank rediscounts, as well as on credit lines
administered by the Central Bank; (ii) quarterly review of interest rate
ceilings beginning September 30, 1990 which, in so far as possible, would
be adjusted in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to allow sufficient scope
for market determination of lending interest rates; and (iii)
administrative unification of all rediscount and credit lines
(agricultural, industrial, export, and housing finance) under four Central



- 21 -
Bank units; and (iv) limit subsidized credit funded with external resources
to the amount existing at December 31, 1990.
70.      To address the need to strengthen the banking system's financial
health, the following actions will be supported by the Loan:
(i) improvement of the portfolio classification system; (ii) pre-
determination of provisions for the last three categories of loan portfolio
under the new five category system (iii) impose a minimum capital to asset
ratio for all banks; (iv) compliance with the established rules on interest
accruals, loan concentration and loans to related parties; and (v)
agreement on a program for the reorganization of the agricultural financial
system, including a reduction in Central Government transfers to BANADESA
in 1990 by lOZ from the level in 1989.
71.      Disbursement of the SAL's second and third tranches will be
contingent on the satisfactory progress in the implementation of the action
programs defined above.
Social Sectors
72.      To address the Government's concern with the impact of the program
in the social sectors area, the following actions will be supported by the
loan: (i) provision of resources in the Government's budget for 1991 for
the Ministries of Health and Education, and for programs to provide food
and employment to the neediest sectors of the population equivalent to the
levels in 1990; (ii) agreement on parameters for measuring progress in the
implementation of the food and employment programs; and (iii) development
of a social sector restructuring program to improve the efficiency and
equity of social services. These actions would be a condition of
disbursement of the second tranche. Satisfactory progress in implementing
the food and employment programs along with submission to the Bank of a
financing plan for the social sector restructuring program would be
conditions of disbursement of the third tranche.
C. Poverty Impact
73.       As mentioned, the initial effects of the adjustment measures
supported by the loan may increase poverty. However, when complemented by
the PHIS and the Bank supported work in the provision of targeted social
services, the adjustment program should help reduce Honduras poverty over
the long-term.
74.      First, the program would make a special effort to better target
public social expenditures to the truly needy. Second, the opening of the
economy should help improve productivity and therefore increase real wages
and employment; the encouragement of non-traditionel exports should also
help reduce poverty by increasing output of labor intensive commodities;
and the proposed transfer of imports to the parallel exchange rate market
will have a similar effect through efficient import substitution. Third,
and maybe most important, poverty will increase more if the proposed
program is not implemented. Under present circumstances, the financial
disequilibrium is such that an inflation cum devaluation cycle will develop
and poverty will grow more and stay higher without actions along the lines
of those suggested.



- 22 -
D. Loan Amount
75.      The proposed loan of US$90 million equivalent would meet about 152
of Honduras' gross external capital requirements for 1990/1991. The loan
will be disbursed in three tranches of US$45 million, US$20 million, and
US$25 million respectively. The first tranche would be available for
disbursement at loan effectiveness, and the other two would be made
available following a satisfactory review of progress in implementing the
program with the Bank. Adequate external financial support will be
critical to the success of the adjustment program as explained before
(para. 53) and the Bank will support the Government's requests for
concessional aid through the Consultative Group for Honduras.
E. Proposed Tranche Conditionality
76.      The first tranche of US$45.0 million would be disbursed upon
effectiveness. There are no special conditions for effectiveness other
than those specified under the General Conditions applicable to the Bank's
Loan Agreement. Before presentation of the loan to the Executive
Directors, the Government has taken the following actions:
(a) modified the exchange rate regime and adjusted the market
exchange rate from L2/US$1 to L4.2/US$l;
(b) obtained Congressional approval for a phased adjustment of the
tariff regime that will reduce the range and dispersion of
import tariffs from 120Z-02, to 20Z-5Z over a two-year period,
the initial adjustment has eliminated all tariff exemptions
and reduced the range to 40Z-22;
(c) eliminated CEFEX incentives;
(d) defined and obtained Congressional approval for a 1990 Central
Government budget which will contribute to reach overall
targets for public sector savings of 0.52 of GDP and for
overall deficit of the public sector of 6.9Z of GDP in 1990;
(e) reduced the public sector labor force by eliminating 3,000
redundant positions;
(f) agreed on an 18-month tax administration reform program and a
public sector investment program with the Bank to improve the
efficiency of tax collection and public sector investment
processes;
(g) defined and approved 199011991 financial programs for public
utilities SANM (water) and HONDUTEL (telecommunications), to
increase the efficiency and savings of these utilities to 0.3Z
of GDP in 1990 and 1% of GDP in 1991, and submitted to
Congress a new budget including actions to meet the financial
targets for HONDUTEL and SANAA.
(h) allocated L98 million in the public sector budget for 1990 to
support emergency food and employment programs;



- 23 -
(1) increased lending interest rates from 172 to 192 and Central
Bank-funded rediscount rates from a range between 6-12Z, to
152, with the exception of rediscount rates for credit granted
to producers of basic grains.
(j) agreed on an action program to replace guarantee prices system
for corn with a flexible tariff system and agreed to eliminate
all price controls and guaranteed prices on other agricultural
products; and
(k) prepared the 1990/1991 rationalization program for BANASUPRO
and IHMA.
77. Release of the second tranche (expected to take place in early 1991)
would be conditional on:
(a) a supportive macroeconomic framework;
(b) reduction of import tariffs to a range of 35-42;
(c) eliminatiGn of Central Bank import licenses to any imported
items and all restrictions to imports of agricultural
products;
(d) elimination of temporary export taxes on traditional and non-
traditional products in accordance with the Decree Law 18-90
already approved by Congress;
(e) agreement on recommendations and an action plan to implement a
new export incentive system;
(f) verification of public sector savings target of 0.5? of GDP in
1990, and a public sector investment program for 1991,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued by the Borrower.
(g) agreement on recommendations and action plan to implement a
tax reform program;
(h) submission to Congress for its approval of a 1991 budget with
an increase in public sector savings to at least 1.7X of GDP;
(i) verification of compliance with the expenditures targets of
the agreed public investment program for 1990;
(j) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the tax
administration reform program;
(k) achievement of 0.3? of GDP in 1990 of savings of HONDUTEL and
SANAA;
(1) replacement, starting with the crop year 1991/1992, of
guarantee price system for corn with a flexible tariff system,
and elimination of all other agricultural guarantee prices as
well as other price controls for agricultural products;



- 24 -
(m) reduction of Central Government and/or Central Bank
operational transfers and/or loans in support of BANASUPRO's
operations to a maximum of L4.0 million for 1991; and
satisfactory progress of BANASUPRO's and IHMA's
rationalization programs for 1990;
(n) provision in the 1991 Central Government Budget for (i) a
budget amount for the Ministries of Health and Education at
the same proportion as the 1990 budget; and (ii) an amount at
least equal in 1989 Lempiras to the amount provided in the
1990 budget for expenditures in targeted food and employment
assistance programs; agreement on parameters to measure
progress in the implementation of these programs; and
submission to the Bank of a social sector restructuring
program.
(o) review and revision as necessary of the ceilings for interest
rates in lending operations in Honduras on September 30, 1990
and December 31, 1990;
(p) adjustment of Central Bank-funded rediscount interest rates
for agriculture to the level of any other Central Bank-funded
rediscount rates, with the exception of credit lines to
farmers with total land holdings below 10 hectares;
(q) agreement on a program to eliminate Central Bank-funded
directed credit lines;
(r) agreement to limit subsidized credit, funded with external
resources, to the amount existing at December 31, 1990;
(s) reorganize the administration of rediscount credit lines in
four units: UPCA for agricultural credit (except BANADESA's);
FOVI for housing credits; FONDEI for industrial credit; and
the Departamento de Credito y Valores of the Central Bank for
other credits.
(t) reach, as an average for the commercial bank system, a ratio
of capital and reserves, to total assets and off-balance sheet
items (deducting holdings of Government bonds, cash, and
deposits in other banks), of 5.OZ by December 31, 1990; and,
(u) agreement on a program for the reorganization of the
agricultural financial system. In particular, the program
should reduce to 102 the Central Government transfers to
BANADESA in 1991 from the levels provided in 1990.
78. Release of the third tranche (expected to take place by November 1991)
would be contingent upon:
(a) a supportive macroeconomic framework;
(b) reduction of import tariffs to a range of 20-5Z;



- 25 -
(c) elimination of all import surcharges for agricultural
products.
(d) satisfactory progress in the action program to eliminate
temporary export taxes on traditional and non-traditional
products in accordance with Decree Law 18-90;
(e) successful implementation of the new export incentive system;
(f) presentation to Congress of an agreed tax reform program;
(g) verification of compliance of year-to-date expenditure targets
for the agreed 1991 public sector budget and investment
program;
(h) achievement of a projected 12 of GDP in 1991 of savings of
SANAA and HONDUTEL;
Ci) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the tax
administration reform program;
Cj) satisfactory compliance with the implementation of the agreed
flexible tariff system for corn;
Ck) satisfactory progress in the implementation of targeted social
assistance programs;
C1) reduction of Central Government andlor Central Bank
operational transfers and/or loans to BANASUPRO to a maximum
of L2.0 million for 1992, and satisfactory progress of
BANASUPRO and IEBA's rationalization target for 1990;
'm) satisfactory quarterly review of lending interest rate
ceilings starting on March 31, 1991;
(n) adjustment of Central Bank-funded rediscount rates for credit
to farmers with total land holdings below 10 hectares to the
level of other Central Bank-funded rediscount credit lines;
(o) satisfactory progress in the year-to-date targets established
in the program to eliminate Central Bank-funded directed
credit lines;
(p) verification of compliance with the limit established for
subsidized credit funded with external resources to the level
existing at December 31, 1990;
(q) reaching, as an average for the commercial banking system, of
a ratio of capital and reserves to total assets and off-
balance sheet items, of 5.5Z; and,
(r) verification of compliance of loan reclassification and loan
provisioning for the banking system in accordance with the
criteria agreed.



- 26 -
F. Imolementation Assistance
79       The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) has been a major
source of financing for strengthening the Governments program
implementation capacity. During appraisal the Bank met with ONDP officials
at the request of the Government to discuss the technical assistance
requirements to support the Government's economic reform efforts. As a
result, UNDP has defined with the Government a program of technical
assistance focussed on institutional strengthening. support for the public
investment planning, and project evaluation. The Bank will also be
providing direct technical support in the preparation of the export
incentive system and tax reform studies.
G. Other Conditions
80.      Honduras has undertaken an imaginative and far reaching economic
adjustment program. However, the beneficial effects on the country's
balance of payments and GDP are likely to take some time to materialize.
Meanwhile, the 1990 import bill, exacerbated by the recent oil price
increase, will remain significant. Furthermore. Honduras' debt service
burden, which is heavy, is compounded by the exceptional efforts made to
clear its arrears to multilateral creditors. The absence of adequate
financing would place the economic adjustment program at risk, and
therefore, retroactive financing up to an amount of 50Z of the Bank loan,
well above the normal practice for adjustment operations, is being
recommended for the expenditures incurred after May 15, 1990.
Disbursements of each tranche would be made against import documentation
received from the Central Bank, except for items on the standard negative
list. The co-financing funds obtained would also be disbursed against
general imports, along with the tranches of the proposed Bank loan.
81.      Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Contracts of the public and private sectors
estimated to cost more than US$5 million equivalent will be procured
through simplified ICB procedures. Contracts of the private sector, valued
at less than US$5 million equivalent would be procured following
established commercial practices, wbich should include, whenever possible,
requiring quotations from eligible bidders from at least two foreign
countries. Contracts of the public sector. valued at less than
US$5 million equivalent, would be procured following Government procurement
practices acceptable to the Bank.
82.      The Central Bank will be responsible for the coordination and
collection of relevant documentation and for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications under the loan.  Disbursements against contracts
valued at less than US$5 million equivalent would be made on the basis of a
Statement of Expenditures to be submitted by the Central Bank, with
detailed documentation being retained by the Central Bank for review by the
Bank as required. Full documentation would be required for approval of
individual contracts exceeding US$5 million equivalent. Applications for
withdrawals to the extent practicable will be consolidated and submitted in
amounts not less than US$5 million equivalent.
H. Accounts and Audits
83       A separate account would be kept by the Central Bank for all
expenditures made under the loan. The account and statements of
expenditure would be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines, and the



- 27 _
-audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than four months
after the close of the fiscal year.
I. Cofinancina Arrantements
84.      During the preparation of the loan, the Bank discussed with the
Honduran authorities the possibility of obtaining cofinancing for the
second SAL. Mr. Maduro, Honduras' President of the Central Bank, and Mr.
Villanueva, Minister of Finance, agreed to the Bank's exploring such
cofinancing possibilities with donors. The IDB has agreed to cofinance the
agricultural policy reforms of the SAL with a US$50 million loan. The
Government of Germany has expressed its intention to cofinance the SAL II
program with DM15 million. Discussions with other governments are ongoing.
J. Proaram Benefits and Risks
85.      Honduras' creditworthiness indicators would improve because of the
program's implementation. Bank projections indicate that the debt service
ratio would decrease from 28.52 in 1988 to 172 by 1994. The economy vould
also undergo a substantial transformation and diversification that would
reduce the long-term risk of a new economic slump. Its capacity to respond
to cutbacks in aid would be strengthened and Honduras' standard of living
could improve at an accelerated pace in the late 1990s.
86.      Despite the improvements mentioned before, Bank projections
indicate that Honduras' creditworthiness would remain extremely vulnerable
to changes in coffee and banana prices, and to increases in international
interest rates. Moreover, a small hardening (of about 2-3 percentage
points) in international coammercial credit terms quickly erases the
marginal improvement in Honduras' creditworthiness that is assumed to be
derived from the implementation of the adjustment program along the lines
defined in the preceding paragraphs. Thus, prospects for sustainable
improvements in Honduras' creditworthiness heavily depend on obtaining
significant amounts of the required financing on concessional terms.
87.      There are three main risks associated with the proposed operation.
First, Government implementation of the adjustment program may fall short
of what is necessary to lay the basis for sustainable growth. Second, the
level or timeliness of external capital flows may fall short of what is
required to restore finAncial balance. Finally, the Government needs
technical assistance to define and implement many actions at the micro
level and failure to obtain it in time could cause delays in the
implementation of the program's measures which could hamper its successful
implementation. The sequencing of adjustment measures, each programmed to
strengthen prior policy reforms at both the macroeconomic and related
sectoral levels is designed to address the first risk. To minimize the
second risk, we propose to seek cofinancing as appropriate for each
operation, and also plan to chair a consultative group of creditors and
donors to assist the Government in mobilizing additional external
financing, in support of the medium-team adjustment effort and public
investment program. Financing of the program, however, may be more
difficult than expected and will challenge the capacity of the multilateral
and bilateral institutions willing to provide support.   Technical



- 28 -
assistance is being pursued with support of UNDP to address the last risk.
The Bank, however, will have to play a major role in the supervision of
this operation and later loans to minimize this implementation risk. Thus,
it will be required to follow a tight supervision timetable in order to
improve the chances of success of the program.
PART 1V - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
88.      Since 1955, Honduras has received 35 Bank loans totalling US$610.9
million and 12 IDA credits totalling US$85.0 million, -both net of
cancellations. Of the Bank Group's total lending to Honduras, 35Z has been
for the energy sector, 22Z for transportation infrastructure, 192 for
agricultural credit and regional development, 13Z for industrial credit and
tourism, 7.2Z for structural adjustment, 32 for water supply; 22 for
education; and 1Z for municipal development. Bank group lending initially
concentrated on developing basic infrastructure in Transport and Power
where inadequate facilities hampered the country's development. In the
last decade, it has diversified to support the expansion of productive
capacity in agriculture, industry and tourism and address major needs in
education and water supply.
89.      The Bank's strategy for Honduras emphasizes medium-term structural
adjustment. In view of the urgent need to control the current financial
crisis, however, the Bank's strategy is also focussed on support for the
Government's program of macroeconomic adjustment in the short term, an
effort which has been fully coordinated with the fl and IDB. This would
permit the Bank to lay the basis for a comprehensive medium-term adjustment
program.
90.      The main objectives of the Bank's lending assistance strategy for
Honduras over the medium term are to: (i) promote development of the
country's growth and export prospects and strengthen its creditworthiness
by supporting the suggested program of structural adjustment through a
series of SALs and SECAIs; (ii) assist the Government in mobilizing and
diversifying sources of the external finance needed for Honduras' public
sector investment program especially on concessional terms through
coordination of the Consultative Group for omaduras (iii) support a limited
number of investment projects in priority sectors, especially in programs
targeted to alleviate the ilmpact of adjustment on the poorest sectors of
the economy; and (iv) resume regular investment financing around the second
year of the program of adjustment as country creditworthiness is
strengthened.
91.      Bank support for the macroeconomic adjustment effort includes: the
reactivation of SAL I (on July 3, 1990, the Executive Directors approved
the release of the second tranche); this proposed second SAL; and sector
adjustment loans in Energy and Agriculture currently scheduled for Board
presentation in late CY90 and in CY91, respectively.
92.      To complement the ongoing efforts under the adjustment program to
streamline decentralized enterprises, the Energy SECAL will support
improvements in the power company's finances and management and a reduction
in its dependence on fiscal resources. It would also support a new energy
sector policy and a program for petroleum exploration and supply
management. Given the dominance of the agriculture sector in output and



- 29 -
exports, the Bank will be preparing an agriculture SECAL which would
continue with major reforms initiated under SAL II and would support policy
reforms to take advantage of the country's comparative advantage in
agriculture and strengthen agriculture growth in both traditional and non-
traditional exports. The IDB has expressed interest in cofinancing the
above operations and other international financial support is being sought.
93.      Our analysis of the infrastructure required for the success of the
export-oriented strategy indicates the need for strengthening the role of
country'6 transport system, as well as for the development of transport
policies to increase the effective use of the road and port facilities of
the country. The Bank is considering an Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Project which would serve to address these issues.
94.      In support of the Government's program to alleviate the impact of
the adjustment on the very poor, we are proposing a social sector project
(FY91) which will support and expand on the Government's Social Investment
Fund. The Bank is also carrying out an indepth analysis of issues in the
social sectors and a second social sector project is being considered to
improve and enhance the delivery of social services through the
strengthening of the Ministries of Health and Education. The Bank-led
Consultative Group will be providing a forum for mobilizing additional
resources in support of Government efforts in the social sectors.
95.      Depending on the progress made in implementing the key elements of
the program, follow-up operations may be proposed during the five-year
programming period, most likely in FY92-FY93. We also plan to support
small, technical-assistance focussed projects to help strengthen specific
areas of public sector management and to improve access of the poor to
basic services, one of the Government's key objectives.
96.      The above strategy is conditional on the continued willingness and
ability of the Government to carry out the adjustment effort; it will
require constant close monitoring and may require interim management
reviews to adjust the strategy as events develop. Proceeding with each
successive step would be contingent on satisfactory implementation of
agreed actions. Each sector adjustment loan would be coordinated with, and
tied to, the macroeconomic adjustment program, as well as to relevant
elements of other sector loans, where appropriate.
PART V - BANKIMF RELATIONS
97.      The Bank and the IMF have been working in close collaboration in
Honduras. The Fund and Bank programs are mutually consistent and
reinforcing, with the Fund program focussed on macro stabilization concerns
and the Bank program focussed on longer-term adjustment measures within a
consistent macro framework. Continued close contact will be maintained
during supervision of the program.



- 30 -
PART VI - RECON44ENDATION
98.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the prcposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 10, 1990



- 31 -
At~ 1
IN@RAS   - 14ATIO*.. ACCOJltS                                                              AmI%    t
19S5 Pee C.ts @   la. USJ:    85o                      . ...- ----------------                                                                    A          1
N;8-lo  oeuit.tIe  (.sit*-)    4.0                                                                                                               (P- -   - - 1 -    2)
(A  8 .4 cu...t UP)         1970     1975     1960      1964    1n65      1986     17         8      1        1990      1991     1o"2      393     19s95   1ll5
a'.. O...tl Pa .dv ..a.   IO.0    100.O    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0               O 10   0.I   1I0 0   100.0   100.0   10.O   100.0   100.4    OO.0
R.a  ndlirect Tuses          10.       9 6     10.6      10.9    12 1      12.4     12.2    12 0      12 0      12.0     1.0     12.0    12 0      12.0   12.0
A.eie.I.W                    29.7    26.9      24.1    21.4       21.0     21.6    20.5    20.1       20.2    20.8       21.0     21.4    21.6    22.3   52 
Ift4vot,7                   t1.5    20.2    20.6         212      20.1    19 0      19 2     20 4     2D.6    20,.      20.8    20 t    20 5        20 4   20 4
So" 1te-                     41.7    43.1    44 7        48.5    45.S    47.0       48.1     47.S    47.t    46.7    '4.3         4.1    45,8    45 4   45.4
Rt.ogrec  %,ac.                -S.8    -9.0    -7,2        -8 8     -s       -1.4     -2.7     -2.7    -2.6       -3.1    -2.6    -0.5        0.5      2.0    1.8
b.ota of OfS                 29.2    30.7    37.1    26.6    26 0          28.7     23.9     22.9    22.4    42 1    48.7         49.2    S1.l    U.6   57.0
tm.ets, of1s                 35.7     397      44.3    33.1    30.5    28.1         26 S     25.5     282      45.2     48.3    49.7       S.7    82 6    55.2
1*e.l E.-andla.o.             10.5    109.0   107.2   106.6   104.5   101.4    10271   10217 02.6   101.1   102.8   100.5                    99.5     9.0   e8.2
Tetrl Ceno.*utlo             84.6    90.0      82.7      67.6    66.4      65.7    8S.0   86.6    69.9    6  9           8t5.2    82.9    81.1    78.0   76.6
P,i.tq5 Co_Qa.emtw         72.6     77.Q     69.4      1S.1    71.4    70.6       71.1    73.1    73.9       71.4      70.0    66.1    66.7    64.3   64 1
Public CoanwootiQ          12.0     12.4     13.5      14.7    15.0      15.1    16.9    16.5    16.0    15.6          15.2     14.6    14.4    1S.7   12.5
a'... Ogmati. la.4.tnt   21.9         19.0    24.5       19.0    18.1    15.7       14.7    13.1    12,9    16.2         17.4    17.7    18.4    20 0    21.6
plaed IUn..wcnt            19.4    21.2      24.    19.3       17.6     15.1    12.7      12.6    13.1      16.2      17.4     17.7    18.4    20.0   21 6
Cho-.& 2. Stock*            2.5    -2.2       0.2      -0.3      0.8      0.6      2.0      0.3    -0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0 0    0.0
0.,.. 0o...tie s5.,e           15.4    10.0       17.3    12.2      13.6     14.3    12.0    10 4        10.1    13.1    14.0    17.1    18.9    22.0   23 4
ft.t Fecto. Incom            -3.3    -2.6      -6.0    -5.5    -5.8    -5.8    -5.6    -5 3           -4.8    -9.3   -10.0    -9.6    -6.7    -7.6   -6.2
Not Current Truef.r           0.9      1.6      0.6       2.5      4.2      4.2      0.4      0 4      0.4       1.0      1.1      1.2      1.2      1.2    1.2
Ora" NoXtboftl $*.e;o          13.0      9.0      12.1      9.2     12.3     12.9      6.6      5.6       5.7     4.6       5.9      8.7     11.3    15.6   16.4
ActUal                                           P...                    Projected
8 National Accounts G...th   --------------------------------------------------   ---------------    ---- -------------------------------------------------
(Constant Prices)          70-75    75-t0     19t0      1984     1985     196      1987     196      1969     1990      191      1992     1993     1995    1998
0,*.. DOcstic Product m.O.    3.7        7.J       1.3      2.8      3.2      2.7      6.2      4 7      2.1      0.0      2.5       3.5      4.0      4.4     5 0
No.t 1.4.*.ct To"s,           S.1      9.0     22.7       9.6    14.1       5.8      2.2      4.7       2.1     0.0       2.5      3.5      4.0      4 4    5 0
Aq,ie.ltu-                    0.0      6.1     -1.7      2.0       2.9      1.4      2.7      1.9      2.3      2.0      4.5       5.5      6.0      4.4    5.0
1n4..try                      6.4      6.1     -6.1      5.4      -1.6      0.2      3.0      7.3      3.1      1.0      2.5       2.5      3.5      4 4    a 0
ser.ices                      5.4      7.3      2.7       0.4      2.9      3.9      6.1      4.9      1.7     -1.3       1.6      5.0      3.3      4.4     5.0
b,aoto  of amS                3.2      6.4    -5.8        1.6      2.7      4.4      6  9    -3.3      6.5      5.4       6.9      7.1      6.8      6S5     8.2
toupoto Of CWS                1.0     10.0      3.6      16.6      0.4    -0.5    -2.3        1.3      5.1    -4.7       6.9       4.1      5.2      5.7    5.6
ftaW  E  Onwdture               2.8      6.7      4.8       7.9      2.4      1.0      1.9      6.7      1.6    -3.6        1.6      2.2      3.2      3.6    4.6
Total Ccoaejtion              3.3      7.7      8.3       1.6      3.2      3.1      0.3      9.7      1.8    -2.7    -0.1         1.5      2.1      2.6     4.2
P,;1.8e Coa..w.tio.         3.1      7.5      7.9       1.1      2.6      2.6    -0.4      11.4      2.7    -3.2       -0.1      1.6      2.2      2.6     4.6
PNbI. Co.cAntlon            4.5      6.7      10.3      3.7      5.3      5.2      8.3      2.2    -2.6        0.0      0.0      0.8      1.5      1.6     1.I
4 e. ..    t. P4sat_nt        1.1     12.2    -4.9       41.1    -0.7    -7.1        9.1     4.0       0.5    -7.9       10.2      5.2      6.3      0.7    6.3
Pisod I"p&tmsot             5.8      9.7      9.9    19.6    -3.2    -9.0    -4.6           6.2      4.3    -9.3       10.2      6.2      6.3      8.7     6.3
Csety to Icao.t                -0.1     11.7    -3.9        5.6      7.3     11.2    -6.0    -0.7        5.9   -19.2    -2.2         7.5      6.4      6.0    4.6
T*fts of Trad  Adjusteent      17.6   -19.0   -20.5   -10.8   -13.1   -24.2   174.4   -14 9             10.1   127.0    20.3         6.5      7.5      7.2     6 0
arot   Oo...tie Inc...          2.6      9.1      2.0       4.2      4.7      4.6      0.6      6.2       1.7    -6.2    -0.3        2.9      3.3      3.6    4.3
0.... National Ia              2.9      6.4       t.5      4.0      4.8      4.5      0.8      6 6      1.9   -16.8    -4.1         2.5      t.7      4.4    5.2
qe .tti.nl  Product  (o.n       4.0      6.6      0.7       2.5      2  7     2  3     5  7     5  2     2  4     -7.6    -0.3       3.3      8.2      5.0    5  8
0.o.. Do..tle S ell             7.0      1.9   -28.6        7.4      0 6     -1        Z  _   -11 ^       I e    -41.2    -2.8      17.3    14 8      it 9    4.8
F.ctor .aIco.            -6.5     32.3      13.4      6.2    127 1               -1 .    -      2  -2 4    129 5     21.6      4  7    -2 9      0  6    -1 1
list Cc.'.'.nt transfe.        --   --       -     -        - _ - -          -       . 12     2 9      11 1   201 7    21.8    13 S         9 0      6       5 s.9
are" NktialoI $Ss.ng            9.6    -3.8    -55     7.1    -4 0           -87       5 1    -16.1      3.6  -161 9    .60.6        7  6    24.9     316   110.6
copp.'o.ohl               26-Jon-90



- 32 -
tWtRAS - N87TIlP" A.TS Ecentimoa                                                         AI.dX   I
-_---------- *________ -- __ --  _-_-- ----_---                                         Attec%o..t 1I
(Ptug 2 of 2)
ACt, l                               Pro.            "a.th  %tb. S P.S.
C. Price Imlca. (960.100)                       1960     1964    198S    196       1967    1996    1999              70-7t   7t-0   6043
Ctaa.e,m  Price. (In 64)                       ICO.C    11 2    lVi.'   145.8i   149.4  1ls.3    1I I                  6.4      9.6      S 7
It;alt (P4#l.bse                              100t0    124.4   130.2   137.3   )40.2   149.4   161 0                   es3      e.7     8.2
IU IIc;ltt 8.ndtR.es aOlatow                   1000    130 5    134 8    140.3   145. 3    l14 9   160 ?               7.7      8.0     3.2
0. otne.    codate,*:        7o-75 is 75)   6-67    67-90   90-03                                            1970    14?5    183       19S6
O-whRts(9 P*)                                                                    She* of Labor
Poplultion (ItP  99:)        2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9     2.9                   --------------
Labo, foec-                  2.6      2.8      3.0      -       --                     Age; c. I t.t 63.88    6 O-          586S .   33 SS.n
Cr.44 ft 1. In_.Cu sC.       0 3     -4 4      2 3     -4.S    -6.1                     Ind.utey           13.46    14. 9    17 06   17.95
P.irwta Co.,a.tbo.. P.c.     0 1    -S.6       1.9    -0.3    -2.7                      Se..;to            23.1t   25 25   27t26   28.tiS
lapo't tilacitpr                                                                         Total              100.06   100.0   100.05  100 06
Iso.t. (a-tfS) / 0P(-P)   0.27       1.37    -1.20    1.22     1.96
tG,oinael S     R; t R-
(M uet. @47                 0.S9   -0.0?      0.17     0.74     1.30
0D8 art. WY                 0.88S    0.04     0.26    -0.04    1.08
IcOR (ttd):                    8.2      3.7    12.7       3.6     3.9
F.~~~~~~~------------ -*o                    --- -n ----------------------------------------------------------------------~~--------
Act,us IPFe.                                                              P'*jota.td
E. National Accounts   ---                  ----------------------------    -------------------------------
(1960 mIn. Leaml,sw)       1960    1984      1968    1986    1987    1966    19          1990    199      1992    1993    1998    1998
oa" tmea-tle Preodct M.P.  5.086    5,192    5,356    5,803   5.790   6,063    6.193    6.193    6,347    6.570    6.632    7,433    8,560
Net In;roct Ta.s             839      56       648      663     696      731      747      747      766     792      624      694   1.035
A*ctieltQr-                1,22d   1.297    1.334    1.33    1.369    1.416    1,44t    1.477    1.544    1.629    1.726    1.919    2,216
tndust.t                   1.047    1.064    1.047    1.049    1,080    1,159    1.195    1.207    1,237    1.26t    1.313    1.41t    1.637
(of whI.s.                   sonu?ctu,l)  667  736  722  741    784       --       --      --       --       --       --       --       --
se";eos                    2.274   2,266    2.332   2.418   2.615   2.742   2.767    2.782   2.796    2.6181    2.976    3,213    3.709
RIb ,c.e Bala"ce              (870)    (79)      (3#)      SO     24S      149      167      402     4t7      862      633      770      944
Eo.te .1 OWS               1,8'd6    1.693    1,944    2.030   2.171    2.099    2.237    2.3S7   2.497    2.6t74    2,S6    3.249   *S.69
lsort of eF5               2,256    1.972    1.960    1,970    1.92t   1.930   2,080    1.934    2.030    2.112   2.223   2.476    2.943
Total tapditurw.             $.&3     8.271    5.394    5,443   S.US    S,914    .OO6    S.790    S,690   6.006    6,199   S6.62   7.634
Toul Cceauati0e            4.210   4,203    4,333    4,486    *,4t9    4,903   4,990   4.634   4,649   4,922   S.024    8,270   8,901
P..'t. Conuu..tlo.       3.S32   8.496    8.891    3.677   3.663    4.079    4.189   4.034   4,049    4.11S    4.204    4,425   S.010
Oene,al 51e.ma t           678      708      742      761     607      824      801      601      S01     807      819      64S    69
0... 0oa..t.e Ina-.ate-t  1.248   1.09    1.061        986    1.078    1.011   1.016      936   1.031    1,068    1.176    1,893    1,733
Fpi;.  tlnatent          1,238    I a63    1,048      984     891      946      "I7    t9S       966    1,037    1.124    1.331    1,687
Chngrs Ir Stea              13      (14)      13       32      184      6S       29       41       4       46       S2       62       77
Capeaity to 1er3t            1,86    1.S33   1,69t    1.684    1.771    1.789    1,862    1.0S    1.473    1.83    1.668    1,900   2.166
Terms of T,*4. AdJust_..t        0     (310)    (247)   (146)   (400)   (341)   (373)   (632)  (1.024)  (1,091)  (1.171)  (1.349)  (1.723)
Q,oem ama*stle Inc.e.        8.066    4,862    8,112    5,357    5,390   s.23    5.618    S.341   8.323  5476    S.662    6.064   6.697
0Ora  National Iloom         4.761   4.6S      4,7*,    4.969    5.028    5.372   S.475   4,SS4   4,366   4,476    4,669    8.096   S,906
0... National P.odoet        4.781    4.698    8,023   8.133    S,426    5,712    5.9Y0    S406   S.39t   5.386    5,8.9   6,448    7.429
0,C00 Doati.c 3St*.            876      660      779      900     921      91A      e29      Q7       474     858      636      814      986
Nat Factor Inc*Me           (307)   (296)    (335)   (369)   (362)   (351!    (43W   (787)   (957)  (1.002)   (973)   (966)   (9SI)
Nat Current Tranafam          --       --       --       __       _        .        .          _        _        __    _       __ 
0.oss National S In..          871      362      444      S31     836      469      485    (300)   (413)   (446)   (335)   (174)           8
easpp90.610              26-Jun-90



- 33 -
@6NWA3 - PIT441. TRAMS                                                Au6e  I
twutat - tDttE XWE                                     X   I~~~~Atae.an  2
_---- -  --- - -------------                                           Afi" ettz   lb
Aefal                               pr..                    ProJeet4d
._-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - -- -  - - - -- -w- - - -- -- -- _-- - -- - -- -- -- - -_ -- -    -  - - -   -  - - -- ----- - ----
A.  Vole. Volvo 1sd Price    1060        1064     1063      lU       1"67      tesd     ioso     190e    l0t        1002     1003     1095      1006
Fbolsod t is. Sport
_ ___ __--                 ------------------------------    ._ ---.---------- v......lode, 1080                 ------------ --------------------
8.h .                        100.0        0 e   96.1      0.7T   1e042       "6.t     04.0    12 a    S10.2    12i.S   121.0    134.2    154.7
Cff                         100.0    It   5    126.0    140.0    153.3   153 4    150.0   1*S.3    1st 3        5SS e    181.0    173 0    105 t
Stue-                        1000 C   1 1o 0    146.4     TY S    117.3     84.3    25 5      a  7     25,2     25.7      27.3     28.4     30 8
8-.f                         100.0     64.1      3.a3    30.2      26.9      27.7    24 I1     i  &b    27 0     21.3    *1.7       34.3     42 3
L.- bo,                      1000      65.0     70.2       I1?     84.3     62.2      s3 t     54      580  o         7   60.0     6409     ' 3a
U.fa  & Lobster              100.0    120.5    106.1    105.8    I3S  5    1 N6 8    lS 6   218 7    231.S   203.8    324.0   387 3    445 3
Total t#,ch. KEsost. Foe    100.0      93.3     07.1    105.4   11I e    107.5    114 6    1120 5    121 a    157.1   14.7    167.6   202 1
----------------------- - ---------        - - ------_-------_- -       .      PripeX*- (FqiI ;ltz   4) ------- ---------
bowS                           226      232      274       257      322      343       343      351      3$3       402      443      538      674
Coff.                         204       169      iss       323      200       191      191      148      181      216       244      U17      426
ttu60-                         29        26       22        13       19        1'       10       14       10        1o      is        18       19
Beef                           6t        21       16        20       23       20       t1        20       22       23        26       30       52
Water                          36        35       34        32       35       26        26       27       29       31        34       40       50
Other E.oerto                  202      254      257       248      247      206       378      405      434      582       617      619    1.t6s
Total PF.ch. Iboast. FOS       6so      737      790       601      844     s63        eb7      964    1.0i8    1.223    1.384    1.767   2.406
M_erhndise tae'%         - ------------------------------------------------------------Vol._ "d- 1.0 U0-t40 -------_-_------------------
_ -- ---.-  ---Vol-..I.d.. 1----1-
#84. 0e.,blq Ca..v_* aGd   100 0    1SS.3       e5.5    116.6    107.0    100.7   109.0   106 3    106.7    112.3    117.0   127.3    146.0
W,oebl C*.ouvo, GOd.        100.0    54 3      84.2      77.e     74.7      72.0     71.7    6l9 0     72.0      75.0     76.0     6l 7     104 0
Pt".olw"a and Lubrc.at       100.0    724       96 2      86.4     83.0    103.7   100.5    104.0   106.8    110.4    114 8    124.0    144.1
lot. rediet. sd Othb,.       100.0    04.S      05.0    107.8    105.0   106.7   116.3    112 4    115-7    120.8   128.9    141.5    6s0 A
C.it.tl Ooed                 100.0     46.9     65.1      83.4     66.7      65.5    84.7    50.6       83.7      80.1     74.0    6s.7    110.4
Total Merh. Imports CIF    10.0o    70.7       63.6      01.7     80.2      80.0     04.0    00.4      04.0      97.0    103.2    115.4    137.5
--------------------------------------------------------------Vl-Cr".t P;Cs. (Milltion 6)-------------------
Non Our.blI Coow.' Good        132      129       141      12       202       216      225      209      227       247      271      330       430
D...obl. Cot. . Gu-ood.         78       70       87        63       67        so       01       03      1oo       1o0      110      145       102
P.1tmlo.. and Lubricantt       141      tlO      184        07      119       115      148      138      149       162      160      224       333
Inteo.odi,t. end 0t4..*       400       a44      335       371      345     SO       425       421      453      493       S42      860      s68
coo; tol cows                 270       171      18 1  173          206      209       212      204      235       256      202      378       527
Total 1torh. Iuco'te CeF    1.0129      63       68        675      030    1,011    1,100    1,065    1,164    1.26e    1,405    1.7116   2.383
Coo.eo*;ioo Facto.' C/FCB    1.07      1.01     1.01      1.00     1.11      1.11     1.11     1.11     1.11      1.11     1.11     1 11     1.11
Tfn_ of Tode tnd;co                                     -----        ------------------------------Price Indito Iq-00--------------   ---
o_d----------------f
Merchandise. b&o4t.          100.0     92.9     05.8    101.       s6. 7    07.7      99.2     94.1    90.4    104.0    111.0    124.0    140 2
Moerloondion Ioo_et.         100.0    110.0    101.6    08e    105.5    110.3   113.6    115.6    121.5   127.1   153.6    147.6    166.0
Notctodice Twar  of Trnd   100.0       84.5     03.0    1063       64.1    as 6       87.2     61.3     81.0     62.6      63.1     64.0     83.0
d. As I of Total (eoueat prie..)                                            C.Gro.th Rate. (S)(eoo.tSAt  r..ies.)
Fl  4,.od.a b st.to             1070     10795     1080     1084     1069      1003     1906             70-75    75-r      80-88   6s-93    03-ee
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --_-   - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - -s- - - -- -- -- -.- --------  .._.  ----    -----
OSo-o-                       41.0      19.9     26.6      31.5     35.5     320       30 4             -13 2      16.0    -0 2         1      5 0 o
Coffoe                        14.1     16.4     24 0      22.0     1 7       176      17t               13 8       3 2      3.7 r        J    4 0
5upe,                         0.7       2.2      3.4       3.5      1         1   3    0 o               05       52.2    -2.1   -20.2        2 5
Seef                          5.3       5.9      7 1       2.9      2.0      20                          6 3      113    -14.8       2.7      5 a
Lue.ber                        6       12 4      A 3       4 7      2 6       24 *        .              4*     -10 0       4 8     -22        4 0
Other e.0tes                  30 1     41.2     34.3      34 5     30 1      44*      *6 4                --        --       --     10.6       5.9
Total M.'ch. bawl. P08    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    10t0    10 o0                     2 3       6.7      0.0      6 4       6.6
Merchandise tporta
Wo  Oh*ble  or n-., ood    15.8        1. 7     13.0      14 4     20 5      10 3     10 0               20       106       0 1      3 0       4 7
Dourabl Con .e. 41ood         12 2      6 6      7.4       7.6      63        6 5      6 3              -6.0      18.3     -40       1.8       s 7
P.t.oe,S. v   L.blien.o        5.6     14 7     13 0      20 1     13.3      12 8     12 9              -2 0      -3.3      0.4      2.1       * 7
Inte,..dist and Othe'-       40.9      30.2     39.2      38.5    3t.6      38.6      3s.0              -0.4      13.2      1.1      3 1       6 0
Capitol Ood.                 25.5    24.6       26.5      10.1     19.3      20.8     21.8               5.7      Il       -S 2      2.7       a 1
Total Horeb. Imote CtP    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100 0                      0.5      ;        -t1.      2.6       5 9
too P,0-.tt               2e-.ho-0



- 34 -
HODAS - 8M.AC  O PAV4T1
Actual                                      Pro.          P'ojoetod
____________ -____________ ------                          -______ --___.___---_                _      _    _
SALMJ  OP PAEW5                198D     198       1988     198      1987     1o98     1Me9    19O       199       1992     19       19       1998
A    E.orta of coad   Ws        942      64r   t    S    1,011       9n     1.019    1,098    1,13    1.2a       1.4I29    110    2.037    2,t73
Imt..e      . (i)             6e0      737      790      691       644      863     9Qs       06     1.O88    1.223    1.8       1.77    2,40
2. eoto   S..w so,a            9       110      114       10       1n       a2s      i        t16  Isr?  f               826       270      341
O    Impots of Goo" & WUS   1.12?    A 08    1,063          ass 131    1.01    1.137    1.W   1,217    1.126    1.444    1.98    $.462    2.661
2 .-che.d;wa (FB)             9        8        679       872      s6a      914  f95          98     1,083    1,148    1,271    1,571    2.143
3 aMo-p.ct5   Sr,ea,cs        Lys      181      14        416      213      223      234      253      273      296      324       391      518
C .Remlocv 961a^        ftea   (ts)    (219)    (154        (2e)    (109)    (118)    (I35)     (94)     (71)      (15)     is       tS        60
0.  Not Fogto, Ircoa_          (154)    (178)    (190)    (211)    (22e)    (234)   (235)    (251)    (276)    (230)    (274)    (265)    (301)
.F Fcto. Ro;pt                 24       14       13        it      1o        1o       11       17       23       26       29        36       48
2  Factor Pwym..t.           I7       192      20       222       237      245      246      268      296      80s       303      321      349
(i.bo t                    to) 100  155      145                167      172      171      190      217      221      214      224       240
E.  HoCt CQg.,t Ty".09al          6        0o      17        13       t6       1s       20       28       31       3A        37       43      6o
F.  4--ot Account S9la..    (331)    (366)    (33)    (228)    (320)    (335)    (380)    (307)    (316)    (261)    (222)    (164)    (1S3)
0.  Long7-T-a Capital Iftf     251       250      263       313      356      344      388      319      354      257       232      199      179
1. 0i ict 1a,,atao.t            6       20       28       30        39       47       37s       o       So       45       40        40 
2. Official Cooital Ortat      14       70      133       143      15s      11s       52      1Ys      100      100       100       s0       6o
3. Not LT Los.* (O  date      264      220      2s8       117              i1         go      2T7      204      112       92        79       54
a  0.bg.,-ta I/            351      304      37O      20S       232      293      2061     JS9      293      213      200       217      269
b  R.payot  1/              so       64       64       91       186      17O      1s        62       e9      101      107       136      235
4. Ot.. LT 1.flooe 2/        (32)     (61)    (16M        21      125       57      230     (194)       0        0        0         0        0
To. otal Otht. It.. (ft.t        26      123       6T       (33)      A7       40      (62)       9       16        17       22       30       36
1. Not Short T-.. C.p.t.      1        47       (0)       0         0        0      (23)       9       1s       17       22       26       3S
2  CAFI1                       19       14        (6)      (3)       0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
3  Erom so.d o;aieaia          (4)      61       ss       (30)      47       40      (39)       0        (0)      (0)      (0)       2       (0)
I    Chl..  in Not Assaf.,       84       14      (17)      (s5)     (83)     (49)      25      (21)     (53)     (12)      (32)     (65)     (62)
() i d i *t" I ^ oeoo]
1. Not C..dit f,o. lW          21       (2)     (17)      (52)     (44)     (3#)      (0)      19       22       is        0       (11)     (11)
Sbo-** of MP (c.w.-t  WI).
1 Resource S lac.              -7.35    -6 as    -4.8   -0.71    -2.71    -2.71    -2.61    -3.18    -2.61S   -o.S    0o51           2.21     2.43
2. t.L  Int.#t Psyaot           3.361S    2.86    3 .0      2.61     2.23     2.81     1.1x     6.26     7 03      6.71     5.93     5.53     5 13
3. Currant Acvun% Salat.v    -13s0. s12205          SI    -s.93    -7.93   -7.831   -7.2l   -11.42   -11.611    e.o2    -7.11    -4.6    -4.11
4. LT Capital I.ft.. (i. e 9             ?91    7.7  7.81   6.23     s.63     7.71     79.    11.81    1299       8.831    7 41    5.61       83
S. Nat Credit f4. the IW        ( 63   -0 0x    -0 .s    -1.43    -1.18    -0.83    -0.03       0.7S      08      0.5       0.036   -0.2S    -0 3S
For. n E ch...6. R.a.rg
-__-----------------------
1. I.t'f. R -.** (US lid   149.0   128.2   108.6   101.6    69.6               .2     41.3    81.4   156.3   165.6   213.5   307.9   444.7
2. Cold (End-,. Lo.doo P,*c    9.00     6.00     5.00      6.00     6.0o      7.0      6.o      5.9      8.0       6.0      6.0      6.0      6.6
3. Om. R      .*.             16       13 3.S2    110.8   107.6    97.8    76.2    47.3    67.3    162.3    169.6   221.5   313.9    451.3
A. met tRe.. Ia No044a IX o.    1.6      1.4       1.2      1.0      0.9      0 7      0.4      0.7       1.2      1.3      1.4      1.7      1.6
E.chso. Rates (tUWSO)
1. Mao. Off X-Itate (TM         2.0      20       2.0      2.0       20       20       20       *s       52       58       5.6       6.2      63
2. Real tff. X-Rt. (198041   100.0   132.0    1350    130.0   122.4   12' 2    119 1 225 .7   236 7    2420    242     242 7    242 4
3  XK-1tt fo  CDP Cloo.eio      2.0      2 0      2.0       2 0      2 0      2 ^      2^       4        5 2       S.41     5 a      6 2      6 3
Naowndum It":
a0P (t16 HiII on.)            2.544    3.231    3.489    3.78    4*064    4.457    48165    2.692    2.74e    2.e90       3.148   3,734    4.e25
2/ Iol..do dbt a.r.i., ac ....
cwp,s..                   28-J-0



- 35 -
b@OFa  - w(lTML CAPITAL Me c                                        A         I
Attatltwnt Id
(US I  lc.*)                                               (Peso 1 9E 2)
Aa4u.                            pr..                 Projaed
_______________ ___ ____-------       ----   ---------------------__-_--- -  ---w--- -  ---~~--~-~~------~-----~--
A.  aburaeStO 19i0    1684    1985    1s96    1e67    19?                 6    1969    1990    191    1992    1993    1995    199e
. Pblic A P.O.. LY          26o.?   S00.4    57.0   2C00.3,     .6   26.S    94.Q   sss36   293.1   212 9   19. 9   214.9  2d9 0
Offiielg Credit.e.     Is.6   210.9   S1.1  157.7   204 4   27VI.9   10.9   330    2e8.1   209.9   19'.9   216.9   2e o
b.e1611.tet.. 1      1 2U.*   17ne.s    13.5    Y6.6    S4.7   134.0    99.1  1S5.0   225.7   151.3   130.6   151 2   1.' 3
of abile  IUD       24 4    60.8    44.7    82.6    25.1    52.S         1.6    600    5r a    11.3 S 11.         16.6    41.2
Of wi,ch IDA         17.7     1.1     0,7      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    25 0    42.2   27.4        3.4     3.6     0 2
6lte"fe 2/          30 6   104.4    1e.6    61 1   149.7   117.9    61.6   175 6    $1.4    86.6    67.2    6s.7    96 7
P. Iato C eitor         113.1    19.6    44.8    42 6    19.2    14.9    13 1        9.0     3.0      8.0     2.0      0.0     0.0
SupPlier              6S4.4     a.6     0,2    19.4    14.6       6.4      6.e     6.0     s.0      3.0     2.0      0.0     0.0
FiIWoii Olbsto        66.7    13.9    44.S    23.2       4.4       .S      6.3    00      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0 0
2. Pimto N-a. LT             61.3     8.5    11.9       7.2     6.7      6.2     1.5      0.0     00      0 0      0.0     0 0      0.0
8. Toael LT Oiabure.a.ts    3i3.0   303.9   369.5   207.3   232.8   293 0   205.3  3s6 6   293.1   212.9    19.9   216.9   269 0
4. VS Pureh*e.               20.8     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    27.0    23.0    15.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
S. Not Ihert-t_r Capitol     11.0    47.4    (0.3)    0.0       0.0     0.0   (22.3)    6.8   1s 6    16.6    21.7    27.7    36.0
6. Total  el..Ia Il A NSet gr  32.6   351.3   369.2   207.8   212.3  208.0   163.0   394.6   331.7   244 7   221.S   24.6   325 1
S. p,yomta
1. PubIc Al P. Om.r. LT      39.2    47.6    69.0    73.2   141.9   13.7   109.6    61.7    89.1   101.3   107.4   138.0   229.1
Official Creditor.      22.6    33.0    54.0    69.1    69.0   136.4    71.3    6t.7    63.5    93.1    97.7   124.5   222.6
oiltilate,0l 1/       20.3    23.2    37.3    39.2    42.0    72.7   3S6    76.0    60.3    97.6    91.6   107.6   146.7
of .*hi. I M         4.1    11.6    12.6    21.0    25.4    36.0        0.1    39s.      41.0    42.4    47.4    5s.3    52.9
of hic. MA           0.2      0.5     0.6      0.7     0.?      0.9      0.1     0.9      1.4     1 4     1.4      1.6     2.0
Silaterl 2/            2.3      7.8    16.7    19.9    47.0    63.7    35.6        S.7     5.3      3.3     6.0    is 6    74.1
P,;iae9  Creditor.      16.6    14.8    15.0    16.1    s2.9    23.3    38.3         0.0     3.3      6.3     9.8    10 5      6.3
5..,li.*               2.3      8.9     3.3      4.6      1.7     6.2     3.1      0.0     3.5      8.3     9.6      9.2     5 0
F!" ac;.. Nrkata      14.3      5.9     9.7    11.6    51.2    15.1    35 2        0.0     o.o      O.o     0.0      1.3     1.3
2. P;.-.e. Not.-Osr, LT      48.3     6.1   1t5.3    15.6    13.9    10.0    27.9         0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     3.1      6.1
J. Total LT R.psymaet        86.5    83.9    64.3    91.0   335.o   169.7   137.5    S1.7   891   101.3   107 4   138.2   23S.2
4. VW Rpurhee.                0.0     1.6    17.0   S6.6    43.6    36.4         0.4      7.6     1.4     0.0      0 0     8.3    1o a
C. In96re4t
1. Public A P.Oaum. LT       56.6    SO.0    9.7   106.6    66.4   121.9    52.1   156 9   181.S   163.6   176.2   164.1   197.s
Offic;il Creditor.      31.3    52.7    68.9    65.6    73.2   107.7    49.1   140 7   161.2   164.4   1S9.4   166.5   182.6
lultilatoral 1/       24.5    37.1    49.3    U.3    60.4    63.5    32.9    91.6    95.9   101.2    97.4    99.6   t06 4
of uhiCg Iu         12.4    20.9    21.9    36.2    36.6    44.2         0.5    44.2    46.9    43.9    42.6    33.9    28.7
of whIch IDA         0.4      0.6      0.6     0.6     0.6      0.6      0.8     0.6     0.9      1.2     1.3      1.4     1.4
811terel 2/           0.8    15.6    16.6    19.5    12.6    24.2    16.2    49.1    65.2    63.2    62.0    66.7    78.2
P,i,ote Credito.        27.5    27.3    30.6    20.6    13.2    14.2        3.0    16.2    20.2    19.2    16.8    17.5    14.9
Suvg-IIre              0.9      4.6      3.6     8.3     0.7      4.7     0.1      4.2     5.6      3.6     5.7      4.6     2.9
Floe.0cll pnerhot     26.6    22.7    27.0    17.6    12.6        9.5     2.9    14.1    14.5    13.4    13.1    12.8    12.0
2. Prl.*%* Nmm-*isr. LT      24.6    10.2      7.9      3.6     3.4      1.9     2.6      6.6    10.2    10.6      6.6     7.1      4.9
3. .tOe  LIT otereat         63.4    90.2   104.6   110.1    69.6   123.8    54.9   167.5   191.5   194.2   164.9   191.2   202.4
4. 7f 5er.i-C Chalre          0.0     0.0      0.0      9.7     5.6     4.8      0.3      S.0     6.6     6.3      9.2     6.1      5.4
S.  totereet Paid an ST Dot    16.6    44.9    40.4     9.9    16.6    13.5      4 4    17.6    18.5    10.6    20.0    24.3    31.9
6. ToalC I.al. IW & "at ST  100.1   15S.1   143.0   129.T   114.2   141.6          6   190.2   216.8   221.1   214.1   223.8   239 7
I/ Itoludee uoide tiffled eurcea (1992-1996)
2/ I"Clud. - *flaci. cofh lenc;n en*d unidentified eavoers.
empr90ewl               23-m.R-90



- 36 -
io@Wuts - RlS4L CAPTrAL AM4N  CT                                          Ap     I
-''---------''-----'-------'-'--------                                    AsUCUMMAt Id
(1.35II 14111.n)                                                 (Pos. 2 of 2)
ACtual                     P,.                    Projected
_ ~~~~~~~~~- - - --- -- -- -- - -- - -- - --    - - -- - --  - - - - - - - - -- -- - - _-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - -v-- - - - - - - - X- - - -            
a  eotamna  Debt (OM)           19s0 96           a1    19e          167       t9ss     1969     1990      1991     1992     199       1995     1996
1. PNOiv * P.0.. LT              969    1,6S4    2,177    2,40t   2,799    2.857    2,924    1,201    8,406    J.527    6.627    3.621   4.071
offColel C-041toro         711    t.432    1,715    &.663    2,268    2.511    2.446    2,175    2,916    8,035    3. SU    3.,8    3.s8e
Nit' l.t..a#  1,;        400       "5    1,069    1,207    1.449    1.441    1,467    1.56s    1,732    1,630    1,669    s.set   2 l1
of *hi. 1,             152       di6      a84       O5       578      a3s       52s      SU       se       5 5m     5U1       443      3S7
of chicl IDA            64        et       el       el        60       79        79      103      114      1'0       172      ITS      175
S:tato..'  2/            231       44.6     826      676       63s      C13       959    1.129    1.1I5    1.205    1.205    1,376    1.473
P,l,at. C4..4..*           276       423      442       Its      sit   5a3          478      48        91,      492      492      490       482
So.lis,*                 68        t0       85       74       91       86         93      lo0      106      107       107     S1S        ('
Fi ... c    sl % t.      210       363      401      4"4       420      414       3s8      365      385      36         63      36S      S5U
2. P,;.t* N-wa,  LT              191      162       141      9O  93              69       78       73       73        73       73       73        Go
3  Tot L oneg-?. oc_           1.160    2.016    2,319    2.499    2,692    2.946    2.995    3,.7A    3.481    3.599    3.t00    3.900    4.139
4  tHF C,.,Jt                     15      115       134      120       77        37      s3        55       76        91       91       77        45
5  Shot-TO.a Debt               272       169      259       214      Isn       lea      168      174      190       206      226      261       361
S. Totel Incl. DF& NetST   1,457    2,821    2.711    2,623    3.14          S 3   .171    3.197    1,502    3,747    M.es7    4,019    4.25s    4.564
7. Accuvlsted Arr. nr-                     .a       n.e.   229.0    354.2   410.9    641.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
A. Interee                     s...     n.a.     n.m.      ft.*.    .    n.m. f..      n.m       ._       __       ._        ._       __        __
6. Ao..t!..t.                  ft ..    f .      P.S.      ft.*. o.t.        P.g t.R             --       .-                 -.       .-        -
S-o'. of Puble Lt 000,
I  0. C    *slnal t7...        87.03    42.01        . 40 7  4.8       --        --       -_       --       __       __        __       __        __
2. With Veaiable tnt. Rat..   21. 5      17.26    17.5s    17.63       --        -.
E. 8n . .,d IDA RAtics
..________.___________
1.910 to total Lt OM (flin    12.9    1is 7       150      1s.6 6   1.99    18 23    17.63    17 33    1s.6s    15.43    14.13    11.43         9.3s
2.1ID  to tot I LT OW (IIn*      543      4OS      351    3 .23       2. 6      2731    2.63      3.1X     4.1       A * 7    4.63     4.53      4.23
4.1M  to total LT DS (line       9.7n    16.n7   25 33    27. 9      24.03    27.33      0.33    33 7%    31.33    29.93    30.63    27 73    18.63
S.IDA to totel LT DS3 (line      0.43     0.68     0.63      0.63     0.53     0.5s      0.43     0.61    0.6t       0 9      0 n      0.93      0 a8
P. 000-to-6.v,otz 0"S
1. Lo.o-,oTe, 0.bt             122s261  234. 1    253 1    244 N8  294.53   258.3   271.13   264 63   272 53   247.4    22563.8   168.61    14 0o
2. 1I  C.e dit                   1.63    1568    14.13  10s.7         7 93      1.63     3.26     4.63     6.06      6.33     S.6S     3.73      1 .6
3. Sho,t-T*- Debt               2626    19 63    26.33    21 06    17. 9       16.23    14.93    1s.13    14.63    14.26    13.96    13.51   13 6S
4. LT.IWF.ST W0                151 9e   269.53   298.0    276.13   320.231  306.23   29923   304 53   293.33   267.93   245.33   205 41   163.23
0. V0D-to-"o-v.t 0DP
1. Lo.-Ttw 0Dbt/0(P            45.43    62. 4     66.51   65.6S    71.26    561S    61.31   121.6# 3    26.68   124.03   117 53   104.68    a5.s6
2. DVC,o4it/OVP                  0.63     4.26     3.681    2.93      1.9e      068      0.73     2.06     2.63      3.1      2.9      2.13      09.
3. SI.ot-Tt.  ODbt/QDP          10 .7     5.25     T.4A  5    .6#     4.33      4 21     3 .41    6 5.    6S."       7.13     7.23     7.53    7T."
4. LT-I'.1ST 0Q1/0DP            57.7     71.6.8   77.7      74.a3    77.41   71.13    65.43   130.13   136.43   134.26   127.7   114.06    94.53
I  Debt 5....fe/Ee       0as8
. - - --. - I - -- -- -- -a     -- -L-T - - 10.13    14.  16.1  175    2321    2743    14 6      20  3    2123    196        17.4     15.43    15.31
2. P-vt* N              d L      ?.S      5.43     2.53      1 .9    1s.e       1 .2     2.6s     0 7n     0.e6      0.73     0.43     0.53      0.43
3. Total LT Debt S-'ic.         17.?     20.21    20.63    19. 7     25.03    26 5    17.43    21J7    22.03    20.33    17.68    15.91    15."
4. IW R,.urd*.*.Se.s.Chg         0.01    0.23       1.9"     6.o0     5.03      A.03     0.1      1.13s    0.63      0. 6     0.63     0.63      0 6
S. tfteteat WnlY o. ST Dbt       1.7%     5.2e     4.43      1.0a      1.96     1.33     0.^4     1 53      1-53     1.33     I 23      1.26     1 u1
6. Total (LT.-DwST Int.)        19.43    21.83    26 9      26.73    31.63    33 63    17 93    24 3S    24.13    22 29   19.63    17.6A    17.4
3. Int',.et ouwd. Ratio.
1. Tote' Ute.'et/uev'rnt a 0    3.93      4.23     4.23      3 43     2.86      3 23     1 21     7 1s     7 93      7.63     6.63     6 ox      5 0O
2. Tot.4 Zntere- /ttoue  0       O 43    13.73    15.63    12.73    11.63    *3 as       5 *S    16 53    17.od    13.2#    13.1S    10.Ia       a 6S
1/ 1nleld. vniden:li#id ae.'cs  (1992-1996)
2/ Includ-e rfi,tnci,ng, cotitceing and unidontified soe,...
cepp0o.wk1                2a-Jft-e0



- 37 -
Ho1 AAS - IP'IC FItNiCS. "WV DAM OIT                                       ANWI I
Attachmet Ie
1. Conolidated WF Pub$It Sector         Actual                                     Pro.          Projected
Aa percent of Currnt 06Pt    1960    1904       1S    1966        1"ss     198      109     x9.o    1991    1992    1993    19S          l90
A. Total Current Reeipt.      22.9    25.6    26.8    23.3    26.5    26.0    25.7    80.0    31.6    81.2    81.S1             3.2    81.7
1. Ton Revenu                14.2    14.2    14.6    13.4    14.2    13.9    14.0    13.0    19.0   1s.2    18.2    16.3    16.7
2. Mm-Ton Curret Rele,t    8.7    11.4    11.7    11.9    12.4    12.1    11.7    12.1    12.6   1s.0    12.0    12.9    13.0
S. Ttotl Current ependitur   20.1    23.9    24.9    24.7    25.6    2d.1    27.6    29.5    80.0    29.2    28.0    26.7    2S.2
C, Current tudg b anc.         2.8      1.7      1.4      0.6      0.7    -0.1    -1.9       0.6      1.9      2.0      3.1      4.5      6.4
0. Capital apndltures        10.4    11.6       6.6      6.4      7.3      7.3      7.3     7.6      7.4      6.S      6.9      7.6      8.4
E. Net Landing (Inc.Cap.lei    1.5      1.3      0.4      0.3       --       -        -       -        -        --       -        -        --
P. Overall Selane Financed    -9.1   -11.2    -7.6        6.1    -6.6    -7.4    .9.2    -7.0    -5.6    -4.8    -3.6    -2.6    -2.0
1. Official Capital Grant.    0.1      1.9      1.6      1.7      1.3      1.3     0.7      1.8      0.9      0.8     0.7       0.4     0.3
2. Eaternal  oer.winng (not    5.7     6.5      5.S      2.6      3.3      3.5      4.0     4.7      4.6      3.5      2.5      1.7      1.0
0. D_amtic Financing          3.3      0.8      0.3      1.5      2.0      2.6     4.5      0.5      0.0      0.5      0.6     0.7      0.7
0. D  (mill. LeePira-)       5.086    6e462    6.97     7.59     8.18 e 918    9.770  12.11S  14.26O  16.25S  16,261  26.149  30.492
Actual                                     Pr..                           Projected
II. Hbony and Credit         1l00    1984    1965        1906    1907      1900    1989    19o0    191    192          1993    195      1990
----------------- - - - --------.-----(Mi I I ion of Current Leap i rae)----------.------------------
A. Internationai Rearvee(n     125    (297)    (2        (274)    190       152      95      393 a     44    1.062    1,265   1,946    2.053
1. Dz  Crd It                 (50)   (271)   (267)   (219)    (154)    (74)    (71)   (247)   (397)   (512)   (530)   (531)   (486)
6. Dogetic CreOdit           1.778  3s,o0      3.340   S,61O    8.916   4,294    4,577   6.291   8.468  10.071   11.497   14,754   19.296
1.  Privet. Sector          1.445   2.178   2,429   2.627    1,134   1,313    1.881    1.874   2,472   2,646   2,716   2,826    4,310
2. Publie Sctor               328      0e5      91l      903   2,784   2,901   3.196   4.417   5,996   7,425   0,779   10.281   11,929
a. Central Government       301    S00        99     1.159       --       --      -        -        -        -        -        --       -
b. Rest of Public Sector     2i        5      (t2    (176S)      -        -       -                 -                                   --
C. Ot.er Nt Aeet.              (53)    18         97      151      (32)    139      lS       43      (56)   (125)      (94)    (22)      74
0. HiT fore ISR LiabilItias    45s    727        sse      97     1,112    1,216   1,071   1,900   3.407   4,163   4,779    6.159    7.325
P. Limb. witt  Private Seo   1,31   2.197   2,289    2,812   2.989   3,370   8,763   4,627   s.6e6    6,846    7,909   10.616   15.271
1. Hi                         66       gal      44      917   1,00   1,X124   1,176    1,461    1,72    1.SW1   2.202   2,792   3,67
*. Currecy io Circulati    270       376      404      418                --               -        --       --       --       --
b. n_ d  eooltt             33s      466      440      400       -        --               -        -        -        -        -        -
2. ain                        765    1.366    1,445     , 1595    1,689   2,246    2,586   8,866    4. 12   4,665   5,707   7.2s   11,594
1--              --(Offet Ratios of eapansian to Hon))                                            ---
A. Snterational Reeervee(nit)          -0.9      2.7    -0.2       2.9    -1.0    -1.1        1.1     1.7      0.9      0.9      1.1      0.7
S. ommtic  Credit                       6.6    21.8       3.7      1.9      6.7     6.2       6.1     0.0      6.7      8.9     6.2       5.3
1. Privet. OSater                      6.7    19.8       2.7    -9.1      4.1       1.3     1.7      2.3      0.7     0.3       1.0     1.0
2. Public Sectr                        2.2      2.0      1.0    11.0       4.6     3.9      4.3      6.0      6.0      5.6   -11.6      3.9
a. Central Gvernmnt                  3.2      6.6      2.3    -7.1                              --       --               -- -I
b. Rfest of PubIC Sector            -1.0    -6.6    -1.3        1.1       -- --                     --       --                -
C. Other Hot AMet.                      1.6    -4.7       0.7    -1.1       4.0      0.4    -0.4    -0.4    -0.S        0.1      0.0      0.0
0. OLT Foreign Liabilities              3.0    12.2       1.2      0.6      2.4    -2.7       2.9     3.0      3.2      2.5      1.7     2.1
E. QGueaianey                           5.5      6.1      2.1      1.6      6.3      6.2     2.0      2.9      3.2      3.4      4.0     2.9
E. Honey                                1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0



Social ndJc rs  D.elopmsam. 19.9                           -  38-Attachment  lf
Honduras                              Page 1 of 2
mkof          t.4m.                                              4 uc
080 r""k, sum                               iawo        group
Toa12(    s (       1968)                    t7                                                   69 3;  416   2    24?30
1S64                                       5}3        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~49.1  $1.4  5A6  S7.4      60 2
Agedanp io                                           O9S        1.04        0.94       0.71        0.74       0.65
Females per lOOmaica                        %:mO'                          49.3       514         58.6       57.4        60.2
Peulp a u % r pt 2S. D3 44L.7                                              726         56.1       6S.8
num ber                       t 1s        107        104
Pwtgrowdg am                                ISae                2.8         33         3.1        210          2          1.8
57  '   $.1  5.5      5.7         3.2        3.5         3.1
Ufrbn/twa! gmw g diffmuil                   diffmce             3.1         3.1        4.0         3.7        2.5         3.8
Pr     pop3a:2000                           t bm                             _       6,824    516,308     805,063    521,035
Stadoypopz)anaa                                                   _..               16,616          -
DlnaathEpq laUon p.w
Td         mpert pp.                                          5          45.7        39.8       28.7        31.5       26.4
Total feadikynta                        bnbsperwemmo          7.40       6.90        5.55       359         4.08       3.39
Cizzp cvpevl                           V.cIdn15.49              _.          _        35.0          .           ..
Cbm=   / Women (1549n 
Rul                                 .         '94                                    104_...
bMottaI,ty                                 petzba.mpa           16.9       12.1        7.9         7.5        8.6         8.3
CIUCA                                  perhou.mbiwbs         1282        101.0       69.0       54.2        59.1       46.9
Uifepe_m    u   :ovua                       ymn               49.?       S6.2        64.0       66.4        63.8       67.2
*a re                                    51.5        58.1       66.1        69.2       66.1        69.8
Totallabor frce                             U08sands                        909       1.466    146,446    232.336     156.018
Agdaxlfl2m                            %of Iarfoef.             6 ?   62.7            ..
F-mal-e                                                       13l        14.9        18.3       26.6        31.2       293
RuA  et                                  100                                          92          8
Paueaannm:oveml                            f.                  30.7        29.4       30.4        35.0       39.0        38.2
female                          -                 .2         8.I1.                1.          23.5       22.1
Educatonal attment oflabr team
Scool yes  compled oveollU                                      2. -'.21
adsi                                         -         3.0 
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                      tdoisq. km            112         112        112      23337
20         27         42          20         36          20
llPS'OVUl&edM        32.1                   385         36.3       38.3        31.6
Asbamldmsily                              uop.Perse.km           64         758        109         5           94         65
~~&usxs sad woodland                -'P=              5           45         r        9,776       549        7.8
De{;_64                          =*                 -1S        -1.S       iL2         '0.5        47          0.4
t o s h  e  _   4LO  40  S73.2              79.4
Popuaton  growth                              Ifanl t mortality                     Primay scool earoliutit
*                                          2582e
S                                          amleE--1 
4                                           -
2                                                                                       40
Lam  ~~~Immm          ~~ s
a   *         n7



ANNEX I
Attachment lf
Page 2 of 2
SocXaiIrdAwtorsf Deveopmamt. 1989
Houdua
2530  15              recn       Ls        Ler.  h8       h
Unit of        yw,        YOWS      8m                      riddle.
nmmLfia          o         dp         (We)                  lCoO
LNCOMEAND POVERTY
locom's
GNP pme cap  OM = 1988)                      USS              210        360          *       1.940      1.270      2,940
Toalhouseholdincome
Sr     bop   0 of hous_od               S of tow 
S      o      of househlds               '          _                                          - b
Sham to boumm 40% of houshos                  
Shb ro br  20% fA b-      ds                -                 -          _          _           _          _
Povety
Absolutepovmcomemb                      USS pa peri                        _          _          _          _
Pop. in abwolut p y urbam        *           opop. _
Pmevalence of nmaluuint (uderS)         % of agegp              _          _       208           _          _
EXPENDITURE
Food                                      % eGDP             _          326         29.8    _      .
,fish, milk. che 'gp e
C=anl  o                               thau. m     oins        36        113        178      17.643     36.712     3S,596
Foodoaidincals                                *                           13        146          .       781
Fodproducuonper                          19794lal00          89.3       864         51        10Jay        7.0      1043
ShamofagriuMiCP                           *cfGOP             40.0       273        21.9        11.7       16.0       12.3
ycalorie SUppy                     caloies per prsom     19"        2.112      2,068      2,704      2,767       2.9S0
ESYepg gotain mqwywMSperpeao                                   51         52         53         69         70          S0
Housing                                   % of GDP              -        17.6       16.2         _. -
A"v   asouehld size                  pras per household         6          -    _          _ _
Utban                                                         6          _          _
Findinves :housing                        %*fGDP                _        33         23           _
Fuel and power                            % OeGDP               _          _          -          _
mspdou aperaul kg of oil equivla                            1113       203.5       191.9     974.1       8863      1.427.7
Urban                                 % of housbods           .          _          _           _          ..         _
Rural
Transport aaid communka*lo.              V% of GDP              _        2.4         2.2
Poplan  per paemgercar                         2u                        169        128         16         27          14
Fixdinv       vt:  npontqrpmenz           4GsP                  _        33          1.3         -          _
Total  d leg                                 mm                            _      12.05.
Pwulaionprtelioe                           pa                   -        154         84         11         19
mB NVTsrMENT fli HUMAN CAPUrAL
Medialcae                                 %o(GDP                _        7.6        6.4          _
Dung                          1          1'?4"70   'ig~~~~~~ 97    144                .m
bad                                          _        600        80g__m
healtoheahh  m                        otpop        _        _
Immnied(under 12 muths)c:nmeasas          of St's group-                           57.0        5.          2
DPr                                    -          ..       5?.g       62.4       64.7
OralReydonTerapy use(udeS)                 I of casm                               560         33.6       28.2
Eidu                                      *OfGDP               -        3.4        3.9          .          -
Ous QrUeaau
Pdmty:uS ww                          fof sdwo-Oagep Sy      80.0       88O       ILO l0.1               106.8      103.
SP fartol                                                   79.0       86.0                 10320  .05.2  10.3      54
7mfi                                      9D          ?.0      3.0 *                  5LS8       56.7
.-gitleaft              %of*tesdarye            17.7       17.4       26-0    _      
Piagpteadbiarratio:    y               pupilsperadr                       35         39         26         28          27
=m- -      -         18
maWn psde 4               ~%ofociao              -        36.3       43.         637.
u".4~b %   t~i                                          *'nj~    15.5       17.9       88S        1s8.1
maea  ae:~ sofpop(4age1Si.                                   5S0i       43.1        40.5       16.7       262        21.8
,_abI,o %fauals(ae12r)                              -                   414i       19.0       52.5        25.6
N         cwspaperoizualazima            perrbou. pop.        1S.4      32.1        56.8       81.2       793         86.5
5am. weaw.                                         IS+a)  tee9
% dpop    a  S5:0  431                    .7        26,2       21.8
- w *--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _ X ,~~41                                       9.         2.         5



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
---------------------------------------
(As of June 30, 1990)
Amount In US$ million
(loss cancel lation)
Credit/          Fiscal
Loan No.          Year        Borrower              Purposo                Bank        IDA       Undisbursed
29 loans and 12 credits fully disbursed                                   467.C0       86.00
Ln. 2421-HOS      1984    Honduras          Water Supply                   19.80                      10.78
Ln. 2683-HDS      1985    Honduras          Municipal Development           8.90                       4.39
Ln. 2703-HDS      1986    Honduras          Industrial Credit              37.40                       4.28
Ln. 2804-HDS      1987    Hondurns          Primary Education               4.40                       3.83
a Ln. 2990-HDS      1989    Honduras          Structural Adjustment          60.00                      25.00
Ln. 2991-HDS      1989    Honduras          Agricultural Credit            25.00                      26.00
Total                                                               610.90        86.00          78.03
Of which has been repaid                                             190.82        7.38
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                      420.28        77.62
Amount Sold                 4.46
Of which has been repaid:   4.48
Total undisbursed                                                     73.03                      78.03
a SAL, SECAL, or Program Loan



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
B. Statement of IFC Investments
As of June 30, 1990
(US8 Million)
Fiscal                                                               -----Original Approvals --------
Year          Obligor                      Type of Business           Loan      Equity     Total
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
1984-86   Emp. de Curtidos Centro-          Tannery
Americana S.A. (ECCASA)                                     0.30       0.08       0.38
1969-70  Cia. Pine Colulosa de              Pulp and Paper
Centroamerica (COPINO)                                     0.00       0.08       0.08
1978     Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A.           Textiles and Fibers
de C.V.                                                     9.00       1.00      10.00
1986     Granjas Marinas                    Shrimp Factory               0.00       0.58      0.68
Total gross commitments                                        9.30       1.74      11.04
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                        6.47      0.15       68.62
Total commitments now hold by IFC                              2.83       1.59      4.42
3====--==             =3===



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
Second Structure Adiustment Loan
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section II: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare project: 3 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  Ministries of Finance, Economy,
Agriculture, Planning, Trade and the Central Bank
(c) First presentation to the Bank: February 1990
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 1990
(e) Completion of Negotiations: July 1990
(f) Planned Date for Effectiveness: September 1990
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action:
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The first tranche would be released upon effectiveness.
The following conditions have been established for the release of the
second and third tranches:
Release of the second tranche (expected to take place in early 1991) would
be conditional on:
(a) a supportive macroeconomic framework;
(b) reduction of import tariffs to a range of 35-4Z;
(c) elimination of Central Bank import licenses to any imported item
and all restrictions to imports of agricultural products;
(d) elimination of temporary export taxes on traditional and non-
traditional products in accordance with the Decree Law 18-90
already approved by Congress;
(e) agreement on recommendations and an action plan to implement a
new export incentive system;
(f) verification of public sector savings target of 0.52 of GDP in
1990, and a public sector investment program for 1991,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued by the Borrower.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(g) agreement on recommendations and action plan to implement a tax
reform program;
(h) submission to Congress for its approval of a 1991 budget with an
increase in public sector savings to at least 1.7Z of GDP;
(i) verification of compliance with the expenditures targets of
the agreed public investment program for 1990;
(j) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the tax
administration reform program;
(k) achievement of 0.3Z of GDP in 1990 of savings of HONDUTEL and
SANAA' ;
C1) replacement, starting with the crop year 1991/1992, of guarantee
price system for corn with a variable tariff system, and
elimination of all other agricultural guarantee prices as well
as other price controls for agricultural products;
*m) reduction of Central Government and/or Central Bank operational
transfers and/or loans in support of BANASUPRO's operations to a
maximum of L4.0 million for 1991; and satisfactory progress of
BANASUPRO's and IHMA's rationalization programs for 1990;
(n) provision in the 1991 Central Government Budget for (i) a budget
amount for the Ministries of Health and Education at the same
proportion as the 1990 budget; and (ii) an amount at least equal
in 1989 Lempiras to the amount provided in the 1990 budget for
expenditures in targeted food and employment assistance
programs; agreement on parameters to measure progress in the
implementation of these programs; and submission to the Bank of
a social sector restructuring program.
(o) review and revision as necessary of the ceilings for interest
rates in lending operations in Honduras on September 30, 1990
and December 31, 1990;
(p) adjustment of Central Bank-funded rediscount interest rates for
agriculture to the level of any other Central Bank-funded
rediscount rates, with the exception of credit lines to farmers
with total land holdings below 10 hectares;
(q) agreement on a program to eliminate Central Bank-funded directed
credit lines;
(r) agreement to limit subsidized credit, funded with external
resources, to the amount existing at December 31, 1990;



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
(s) reorganize the administration of rediscount credit lines in four
units: UPCA for agricultural credit (except BANADESA's); FOVI
for housing credits; FONDEI for industrial credit; and the
Departamento de Credito y Valores of the Central Bank for other
credits.
(t) reach, as an average for the commercial bank system, a ratio of
capital and reserves, to total assets and off-balance sheet
items (deducting holdings of Government bonds, cash, and
deposits in other banks), of 5.OX by December 31, 1990; and,
(u) agreement on a program for the reorganization of the
agricultural financial system. In particular, the program should
reduce to 1OZ the Central Government transfers to BANADESA in
1991 from the levels provided in 1990.
Release of the third tranche (expected to tE e place by November
1991) would be contingent upon:
(a) a supportive macroeconomic framework;
(b) reduction of import tariffs to a range of 20-5Z;
(c) elimination of all import surcharges for agricultural products.
(d) satisfactory progress in the action program to eliminate
temporary export taxes on traditional and non-traditional
products in accordance with Decree Law 18-90;
(e) successful implementation of the new export incentive system;
(f) presentation to Congress of an agreed tax reform program;
(g) verification of compliance of year-to-date expenditure targets
for the agreed 1991 public sector budget and investment program;
(h) achievement of a projected 1% of GDP in 1991 of savings of SANAA
and HONDUTEL;
(i) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the tax
administration reform program;
(C) satisfactory compliance with the implementation of the agreed
flexible tariff system for corn;
(k) satisfactory progress in the implementation of targeted social
assistance programs;



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
(1) reduction of Central Government and/or Central Bank operational
transfers and/or loans to BANASUPRO to a maximum of L2.0 million
for 1992, and satisfactory progress of BANASUPRO and IHMA's
rationalization target for 1990;
(m) satisfactory quarterly review of lending interest rate ceilings
starting on March 31, 1991;
(n) adjustment of Central Bank-funded rediscount rates for credit to
farmers with total land holdings below 10 hectares to the level
of other Central Bank-funded rediscount credit lines;
(a) satisfactory progress in the year-to-date targets established in
the program to eliminate Central Bank-funded directed credit
lines;
(p) verification of compliance with the limit established for
subsidized credit funded with external resources to the level
existing at December 31, 1990;
(q) reaching, as an average for the commercial banking system, of a
ratio of capital and reserves to total assets and off-balance
sheet items, of 5.5X; and,
(r) verification of compliance of loan reclassification and loan
provisioning for the banking system in accordance with the
criteria agreed.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
8iRAS - SAL T1
iiWCL=OF I:riW
strtural  i               Actions Tak/to be            Moiteorable ktions for       Hitorable Actions for        Related  RD  ProJorts
Taken before Board          Sold Tranche P se            Third Trancr Release         ai nd   Statb7
1.  Kiort and  rade
- Anti-eort bis       - Frst pause                -  atiwulzadc  of            - R      litin of             - i  Stand-by
of Traie 8i0M.        ratioalizatin of            tafff struture with          tariff structue              reuction of tins
tariff structure            redction of range and        wlth reduction of            for grantlz  of
- Obed for a stable     with reduction of           dispersin to 35-4.           rarge and dispersion         Central Bark ilort
incetive rqne        ra g and dispersion                                       to 20-5%                      licenses frao 30
to emnwage            fra  120-  to            -  iminatio  of all                                          to 1S days (June 1990)   o
pelvate ot            40-Zs.                      iport restricticm          - Elimination of all
inves~it In                                       for agriultural              iport succhazges for
eqrts.              - Eiminam of all              produts.                     ariultual prodts.           - IW Stand-by
tarfdf xqitions                                                                       exlcnge rate
- Hligh tariff                                    - Elinatio  of Central       - Saisfactory                   prgran
dIspri  bSt*m       - Omgress apprwd              Bank iwort licee.               apl         of
agriAtural and         e-axmmwaed tariff                                       progm  to eliminate
n-aricultural        reform prgraa.             - EIimition of                 teqiorary taiws on
Products.                                         teaporary taxes on           exports in acrdance
- AdMmumnet of the           nmt traditioal exports,       with Deree Law 18-0.
e2whae rate from            and of toonary taxs
LZ/I5*  to LA.2/WUS         on traditional exports
and adoptin of a            in agren#et with the       - Full implementation
f1cidle exchaWe             Dcee Law 18-90.              of a new export
rate reSigm.                                             incentive system in
- Agreement on                accordance with agreed
recommendations and         recommendations.
- Elimination of CEEK         action plan to
incntives.                  implement a nex export
incentive system.



ANNEX IV
,dJDtJAS - SAL I1                                       Page 2 of 4
tritix of AcrLOtas
Structural issues            Actions Taken/to be             Honitorable Actions for         Monitorable Actions  for         telated hARD Projects
Taken before Board             Second Tranche Release          Third Tranche Release            and 15fF Stand-by
Prebentation
I1. Public Sector
MEanagement
- Low publlc sector     - 1990 Central Government       - Verification of public          Pre set5t1on to Congias        - 15fF Stand-by
savings.                budget approved by              sector savinds target of        of tax reform packse.            defict tard et.
Congress and targets           O.5X of GOP.
- Poor evaluation         to increase tne                                               - Satisfactory                   - U5fDP supported T.A.
and control of          consolidated public              Agreatentaon                   compliance with year-            to improve budget
investment              sector savings to 0.5e          reoendations an                 to-date consolidated             preparation and
expenditures.                            ~~~~~~~~action plan for          t-aecnoiae                        rprto   n
expenditures.           of GDP, and to reduce the        reform of the tax              non-financial public             allocation.
consolidated public             system.                        sector savings and
- Inefficient              sector deficit to 6.9X                                         expenditure targets,           - 15Ff Technical
public utilities.       of GDP.                       - 1991 Central Government         as estaltkshed in the            Assistance for
budget submited to             1991 budget, and on the           Improvements under
- Congress approved              Congress ifth targets           agreed expenditures for          tax ad-'  -tration
tax measures to                to increase  the non-           the 1991 public investment       program.
Increase pubilc                financial consolidated          program.
sector revenues to             public sector savings
211 of GODP in 1990.           to 1.74 of 8oP.               - Satisfactory progress
in the implemlentation 
- ateductioa of tne            - Verification of tne             of the tax administration                                   _
public sector labor            actual 1990 public              reform program.
force la 3OO) positions.       sector invest&ent
expenditures miithan         - Achievement of a
- rioe-table for the              tne limits agreed,              projected 1% of GDP in
implementation of            - Satisfactory progress            1991 of savings of
tax adainistration              in the implementation           HONDUTEL and SANAA.
reform In 1990/1991.           of the tax administration
reform.
- Agreement on a 1990
public sector                - Agreement on a 1991
lnvestmeat program.            public sector investment
program.
- 1990-1991 financial
programes for public           achievement of 0.3%
utilities, SAL4AA
(teater) and dondutel          of GDP in 1990 of
(telecomunicat ions),          savings of HONDUTEL
to Increase  the               and SANAA.
savings of tne two
enterprtises la 0.3
of GOP In 1990 and
ln 1X of GOP in 1991
- Submission to Congress
of a new budget including
actions to jest the
financLal targets for
UOIDUISL and SAMAA
defined before.



ANNEX IV
U S - SALtt                                         Page 3 of 4
Strutural ISSUS           Actions Taken/to be            *initorable Actions for      Maottorable Actims for         Related IBM) Projects
Taken before Board           Sec:i Trawite Release         Third Tranche Releaem          anl IW  Stand-by
Presentatian
Ltl. Agricultural
Sctor
- For basic grains,    - Agreematt reached on       - Replacaunt, startiog        - Satisf:tory                  - LW  Stand-by.
eed to rationalze    action program to              with the crop year            cxmplme  idth the
tariff system and      replae   uarante             199111992, of guarantee       lqletain of                  - IBID Inristrial
eltimte current        price system for corn        price systea for corn         the agreed grantee             Credit ProJect.
guarantee price       with a flexdble               with a flexible tariff        price system for co.
systen and             tariff system, and           system, and elimtnation                                    - WD SF Program.
quantitative           to eliminate all             of all other agricultural   - Satisfactory prgress
restrictions.          price controls and           guarantee prices as wall      of BAWOM  and IrMt's
guaranted prices on          as of all price controls      rationalization targets.
- hbr other              other agricultural           for agricultural products.
agricultural           products.                                                - Satisfactory proress         - IBRD 4th
products need to                                  - Satisfactory progress         in I      J1nmsitaim of        Agricultural
elimite public       - 1990/1991                    of 8AMSW    and DlM^'s        targetted  social              Credit.
sector                 ratiorall2ation              rationalization taraets       assistance prram.                                   I
interference In       prograa for BMNASUD0          for 1990.                     in accordance with           - IDB Agricultural
marketing.             and tdMA.                                                  agreed parameters.              Sector Loan.        c
- Reduction of Central       - Reduction of Central
Government and/or Central    Gvernment andJor Central
Bank operatlonal transfers    Bank operational transfers
and/or loans in support of    and/or loans to BANASUP3)    - Isw) Social Sector
- IplqeAt a           - Allocation of L 98            BMASUPI)'s operations         to a taudmn of L 2.0           Loan.
program to            mdllion in the puibic         to a max2m^  of L 4.0         million for 1991.
mitigate impact        sector budet to              amilion for 1991.
of adjustment in       support emrgeny food
agrlcultural           ai,d eOlDyU3nt prograM.    - Provision in the 1991
prices and fiscal                                   Central Gvernment
retrenhment.                                        Budet of an amout
In real terms at least
equeal to the amount
provided in the 1990
buddget for expenditures
on goods and services,
and for investuent
exW tures in UIealth,
MWation and in
targetted food and
employmt assistaw-e
and agreement on
parameters to
measure progress
of such assistance.



.I.JGlAA:s - 4Ab It                                      ANNFIX  IV
aR&e 4 of 4
Sttuctural lssue              Actions tabanjo nnitorable Actions for                             4onltoroble Actions  for           elted            e rocts
T ken betore board              Second tranche Releas-            Tnlrd Tranehe Release             and IMF= Stand-b
Presentation
Iv. Financial Sector
- NHed to Increase       - Increase in lending            - SAtisfactory review of         - Setiefetory qurterly             - INF Stanod-by.
I  ennial savings        interest rates ttrod             lnding interest rate             revieos of lendian
and to taprov.           17S to 19S.                      celling, on Septetber 30,         Interest rate Ceilins.         - I3SR  Inductrial
tnaLl ailocation.                                         1990D  snd .eceeber 31,          starttng oa dareh 31,              credit Project.
- Increase in Central              1990.                            1991.
- Need to strengthen       dans-tunded rediscount                                                                             - JSAID esp.
sector's finances,       rates frce A ranAe between       Adjusteent of Central          - Adjustmnt of Centrol
6-llS, to ISS, Oitn tue          Bank redtecount Interest         Sent rediecount rates
- Heed to *trengthen       *xreption ot rediscount          rates for ariculture            for fatrers with total
regulatory and           ratee for basic grains,          to tre level of toe other        land holdiags below
supervisory                                               Central lAnk-fwnded              10 hectaree to the
framework ior          - Agreed flexible Interest         redicounet rate.  ith the        level of the otner
financial                rats polrls through              exceptinn of credit itne         Central  asnk-funded
Institutions.            .uarterly reviews of             to farmers with total land       redscount rates. ny
the celling In active           holdings below 10 hectares.    credit subsidy to
interest rates. toking                                            tareers with total
into   conalderation          - Agreement on a progra. to         land holdings below
.uarterly   average              eliminate Central Sant-          10 hectares oj
adjustaente   an the             funded directed credtt           agricultural
Central dank's  CPt              Lines.                           cooperatives wtth
aovrnoment Sonde mrket                                            les  than 10 becteres
implicit intatest rates       - Liait subhidited credit,          per aeraber on average
1.5. prime rate. and             funded vith external             will be funded X* a
londurcas  custom                resources, to the sount          trenter from the
valuation ftctor.                existtaig t Ieembet 31           Central GovernCent
1990.                           Sudget.
- geor4antze ton                   Satisfector  progress
admtnistration of                on tote agrqed pro&ram
rediscount credit ines          to eltolrAte  Central
ti  four units:  dPCA for        aank-funded directed                                                               I
*aricultural credit              credit lines.
(except dtAidAoAls);  dVti
for ..using credits           - Liait Subeid4ti4d credit
F.,1DvI for iadustrial           funded with eternarl
credit- and the  eo.arts-        resources, to the amout
xento de Credito X Valores.    existiag at December 3l,
of the Central  antk for         1990.
eli other credita.
-  ech, As an average for
- teach as an everage              the comercial bankind
for tne coercial                 eystem. a ratio of
banking system, a ratio          capital and reaerves
of captial sad reserves,         to totii 4Oets and
to total assets and off-         off-belance sheet items
balance sheet iteas              (excludin noidings of
(deducinj holdAns of            ,overneent Bonds. caon
Goveranent gonds. Cash           and depoitts in other
and deposits ti otner           boaks), of S.M.
banks) of 5.O2 by
iecember 31. 1990.            - Aequire comeercial banks
to reclassify their
- Agreemnt on a prodrae            portfolio In five
for tue reorganIAtIon            categol os accordingl to
of the agricaltural              tn  ceriteria defined OY
financial system.  In           the 4:
particular toe progras
shoul4 redce In 102           - adeuest tle commercial
tne central Governmnt           banks to  KOe provimions
tranatfrs to iAA11SSA           acaordins to the one
In 1991 fro  ton  Levels        portfolio classification
provided In 199.                as follows:
Cetegory 1: 0S
Cetegory It: 0S
Cat*gory  1ti:  1OX
Category  IV,  ZSS. 501,
or 75".
dependln
on the
4a&litY of
toe  us rantees.
CateRerd V: 1002



di- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
BlPUBlUCA DR EONDVRA
T'pOi"9pO, M. D. C.  Jue. 2, 1990
Mr. barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, P.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.  In the late 1980s, the Honduran economy was seriously affected by
external shocks including a significant deterioration in the ternm of
trade, a sharp drop in intornational capital inflows, and growing
political and econnnic difficulties in the rest of Central America.
Honduras responded to these shocks by expanding heavily its fiscal
deficit and by recurring to arrears on its external debt to finance its
Iiscal and balance of payments deficits.   The failure to make the
required danestic adjustments in the face of a worsening external
onvirorment led to zrjor financial difficulties and the beginning of an
econcnic rer.xztssion.
2. By the end of 1989, real GDP growth had fallen from 4.7% in 1988,
to about 2%, gross dcuestic investment declined to less than 13% of
CDP, and national savings dropped to 5.8% of GDP. Despite sharp
declines In public investnet, the overall public sector deficit was
unsustainable at 9.2% of GDP, and public sector savings wer  negative
(-2% of GPP). 'lte current account deficit of the balance of paymnts
reached 7.2% of GDP, and the Governmant's use of arrears in servicing
the external debt to maintain an overvalued exchange rate continued
deteriorating the coqpetitiveness of Honduras' exports. Net external
financing, including grants was not sufficient to cover the fiscal
deficit, and the Governmant recurred to domestic financing in an amoumt
equivalent to 4.5% of GDP and an accumulation of external arrears
anounting to 4.7% of CDP.  The rate of damstic inflation as measured
by the WPI increased to about 20% (10% in 1988), and Honduras' arrears
on its external debt reached US$640 nillion.
3. To doal with the rapidly deteriorating econonic situation, the
administration of Presidemt Callojas, inaugurated on January 27, 1990,
defined a stabilization and recovery program whose major goals are
control of inflationary pressures, restoration of balance of paymants
equilibrium, and improvement of relations with the country's foreign
creditors. The program, for which we have requested IMF, DEB, and
World Bank support has the following objetives:
* e



*.51_                        ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
RZ&PUIDUCA DE HONDURAS
Teuwigpe, M. D. c.                  -2-                          N..
(I)  reverse the GDP decline and generate sustainable eeployfent;
(I) quickly reduce the rate of inflation to international levels;
(11) strengthen public sector finances through both expenditore
and revenue measures;
(lV) establish a flexible exchange rate reginw;
(V) improve the current account of the balance of paynnts; and
(VI)  normalize the public external debt with bilateral and
ccimercial credJtors.
4.  On Friday March 2, 1990, the Govermrnnt anounced a new exchange
rate regime that brought the average exchange rate to I4/US$1.
-C9ntinuing witlh thie flexible management of the exchange rate systen, on
May 24, 1990, a further adjustment was made that brought the average
exchange rate to L.4.20/US$1.   roreign exchange transactions are now
being conducted in a free interbanking exchange market except for
Central Government dobt service and debt conversion operations which
will rumdin at the official exchange rate of L2/US$l. Banks are allowed
to operate within a margin of 2 1/2% of a reference rate which is set
by the Central Bank, and which will be reviewed weekly in line with the
rrvent  in the weighted average rate of actual transactions in the
interbank market as conditions in the exchange market and the ecorQ1my
denand. In addition, the Government sent to Congress a revenue package
that by introducing changes in the rate of the sales and other taxes,
by eliminating exesrtions in the trade regire, and by Itmosing
tfporaxy taxes in exports, is expected to increase central governent
revenues frcm  16% of GDP in 1989 to 21% of GDP in 1990.  Finally, in
April 1990, the Honduran Congress aproved a budget sutnitted by the
Government which limits current expenditures of the Central Goverruent
to about 21% of GDP. We have set a target for the consolidated public
sector savings of about 0.5% of LOP in 1990 (-2% in 1989). Despite the
efIect of the devaluation on the service of the public debt (an
increasc of about 2% of GDP), the overall public sector deficit will be
reduced to 6.9%  of GDP permitting its financing with cnly slight
recourse to d=!aStic credit (0.5% of (DP).
5.  Also in March 1990, under the ufbrella of the World Bank-led
Consultative Group for Honduras, the Govenment of Pre.sident Callejas
initiated conversations with sevcral bilateral donors to arrange a
financial package thiat would pennit the clearance of all outstanding
arrears to the. three multilateral institutions (World Bank, IM, and
1lB) by end June 1990, vInd requested a Paris Club meeting for Septeubxer
1990 to restructure the remaing official external debt.



-_52 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPULIUCA De HONDURAS
Teguciaip., M. D.C.                  - 3-                        N.
6.  The action program  initiated by the Governmant  in the  first
quarter of  1990  has  improved  the econaoy's  long  term  prospects.
Howver, the clearance of arrears Of Honduras' external debt, and the
sharp deterioration in the country's terms of trade will limlit during
1990 the net inflow of external capital to about US$11 million. As a
result, in the first year of the program's implenentation real GDP
growt.h may be low, unmployment may increase, and the average annual
rate of inflation stay end up above its historical levels.  Thus, to
armeliorate the impact of the recession on low inccane groups, the
Gove.rzuent has implcmented an enargency social program, has allocated
L98 nillion for social ewergency programs, and has inpleiented neasures
that we expect will create the environnent for private sector
investment and savings to assume the leading role in providing
sustainable long-term econonic growth and employment in the econamy.
7.   As you are aware, the country's stabilization program was given
concrete form in a Stand-by agreement with the IMF signed in June
1990. The adjustment neasures, however, need to be strengthened with
an agreemant that will deepen the process of restructuring of the
economy required  for long-term sustainable growth.   It is in this
context, that tho Government of Honduras would like to obtain World
Bank support for the inplementation of policy reforms in the trade,
public  sector nanagement, financial internediation, and agricltural
pricing areas.   We, therefore, hereby request a second SAL for an
eighteen-ironth period  in  an  amount of US$90 million.   The major
elenents of the program, together with operational guidelines for its
inplnemntation, are briefly described below and susccinctly presented
in uatrix form in the attached Annex.
A.  The Export Sector and fade Policies.
8.  With its narrow resource base and smal1 danestic market, liknduras
remains crucia]ly dependent on external trade as its primary vehicle
for  long-term sustainable growth.   However,  exports of coffee and
bananas reprcsented 50% of thc total exchange earnings of the country
in the early 80s, and about 60% in the last couple of years; foreing
exchange earnings are highly concentrated in a few agricultural
products (bananas, coffee) and a number of manufactured exports to the
Central  American  Ccmwron  Market  (CACM), aggravating  the  country's
balance of paymnts crisis.   Thbus, a critical elexnt to attain  a
sustainable level in the current account of the balance of paynets,
lies in the country's capacity to expand its exports. This could only
be achieved by adopting a flexible exchange rate regimre, and by
reducing the anti-export bias of thc trade regine.
?tI], JWlt



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUDUVA DE 8HONDURAS
Teiucipps, M ,D. C.                  - 4-                       NW.
9.   BschaE ge         I'     As utentioned (para.4), on MWch 2, 1990,
the Governimet irdified the exchange rate system and sent legislation
to Congress to reduce the maximun inport tariff rate fran 90% to 40%
and to eliminate all exemptions and surcharges (with the exception of
Decree Law 18-54) to foreing trade.  As demonstrated by the exchange
rate adjustmnt  of May 24, 1990 (para 4), the Governnnt is comitted
to following up this action with a flexible exchange rate system that
responds to the rcality of market conditions in the Honduran econcuay as
part of the agreenent reached with the IMF on a Stand-by. F1 fillent
of this policy will also be considered an essential eluent in the SAL
II progranm.
10. Tariff Peqii.   The trade reform approved by Congress on March
2, 1990, substantially changed the trade regime.  The range in ncninal
tariffs was reduced to 2-40%, only two surcharges remain (5% for
custans services and 10% for inports of cars, tires and samp conexr
goods) and, with the exception of exemptions provided under bilateral
arrangements which (avprise less than 5% of total imports, all
exemptions wore eliminated.   In order to further decrease regional
miarket bias and foster non-traditional exports, the Government intends
to reduce even more the level and dispersior. of the rates of effective
protection. The proposed tariff retonm would reduce the maxinum tariff
ceiling on consumer goods to 20 percent, of agricultural products to 10
percent, and to a range of 5-20 percent on imports of intermediate and
capital goods, depending on whether they are locally produced or not.
Tariffs on essential goods (medicines, books) will rewain at five
Percent.
21. Implemntation of the tariff reform will be gradual over a two
year period in order to provide sufficient adjustment time for existing
damestic producers.   The reform will   proceed   by   implementing a
further reduction to a range c.. 30-4 percent in Decwmber 1990, and to a
range of 20-5 percent in December 1991. This tariff reform program has
already been approved by the Honduras's Congress.
12. Eport Taxes. 'lb gain the rent inccue derived fram the strong
exchanige rate adjustment of March 2, 1990, temporary taxes on exports
wore imposed with rates of 12% for traditional exports, and 9% for
non-traditional exports. These taxes will be phased out during 1991,
as part of the measurcs under the SAL Tr program..
13.  Quantitative restrictions.   There are no formal quotas or import
prohibitions in lmonduras except in the case of basic grains where
imports are authorized only if domestic demand exceeds domestic
supply. hkowever, all ijmorts roquire prior licenses approved by the
Central Bank in d cliscretional mwnner. As part of the SAL 11 program,
quantitative restrictions on imports of basic grains and Central B



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REUUIIDCA DE IHONDURAS
TqucipIpo, M. D. C.                  - 5-                         .'.
import licenses will be elintinated,  As a first step, as of June 1,
1990, tho period r.quired by the Central Bank for granting an iiiort
license has bean reduced from 30 days to a maxim= of 15 days. During
the course of the SAL II program, the Governvent will eliminate all
import restrictions and will replace Central Bank inport licenses with
a syStein of inport registration by which inports wi-1. be autonatically
authorized ooce they dre registered for statistical purposes.
14.  Expot  Incentive System..  Prior  to March  2,  1990, there wer
three kif exo rt incuitives:  (a) teuporary admission;  (b) CEFEX;
and (c) free zones. as part of the reforms approved on March 2, 1990 ,
the Tax &obate Certificates (CEx) was eliinnated.  Fiscal subsidies
on  non-traditional  exports  should  not  be  reestablished.    Export
subsidies  inhibit  re41 excha ge  rate  depreciation  and, given  the
scarcity of fiscal resources, they could not be granted to all
exporters. The best way to ensure an adequate incentive systen is to
maintain a ccapetitive real exchange rate.   A flexible management of
the nominal exchangc rate, continuation of the trade liberalization
process, and sound fiscal measures will be better alternatives open to
the Government tharn granting excessive fiscal incentives to exporters.
Ikwever, to  stinulate  the  growth  of  non-traditional  exports,  the
Government will caiplement the trade reform and exchange rate system by
putting into operation a canprehensive export incentive scheue
consistent with international GATr practices.  This new schem  could
contain exemptions on duties for imported inputs and sales tax
reibursements on dcaustic inputs used in the production on
non-traditional exports, as wl1 as a coherent package of benefits to
exporters, including simplified export procedures and preferential
access to public services.   These benefits will also be extended to
indirect exporters, i.e. local suppliers of inputs incorporated in
non-traditiona exports.
B.   Improved Management of the Public Sector.
15. Honduras's most pressing problem is its ongoing fiscal crisis.
Low public savings and large public sector deficits have been financed
with increasing levels of external debt and, for the past tWo years,
with increased levcls of money and expansion. As a result of this, the
public sector external debt increased fran $134 million in 1973 (15% of
GDP) , to $3 billion in 1989 (61% of GDP). l1onduras public sector now
has an external debt whose scrvice would take 901 of national savings
(51% in interest paymnnt alone), and the country's mejor econonic
asset, its price stability, is in danger of being lost, hampering the
inplementatiori ol a private sector-led growthi strategy as the large
public sector borrowing raquireients squeeze out private sector
investment.



ia- 55 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE ONDURAS
Tqucidpa, M. D. C.                   - 6-                        N'.
17. OQ  the revenue side, the tax package approved by the Honduran
Congress in March 1990 is expected to raise additional revenues roughly
equivalent to 4.5 percent of CGP in 1990. However, the elimination of
the temorary export taxes will reduce this increase to about 3.0
percent of CDP in 3991. Although a tax reform xmy be required in the
long-te.m to strengthen the Governmnt's revenue ses, during the
period of the SAl4 LI, administrative reforms will provide a stronger
source of revenue  eniancement.   As agreed with your institution,
starting July 1, 1990, the Ministry of Finance will undertake major
administrative reiorms that will improve tax collection during
1990-1991. These rcforms, such as date gathering on tax liabilities of
individuals and corporation and the development of a computerized tax
registry, could provide additional revenues estimated at about 0.3% of
GDP in 1990, and of an extra 0.5% of GDP more in 1991. USAID, UNDP and
IDB will provide technical assistanem to these efforts.
18.  'lhe financial position of state enterprises as a whole will have
to produce slight current account surpluses (of about 0.3 of GDP in
1990, an 1% 01 GDP in 1991) during the timc of the SAL II program. To
this end, step.- will be taken to improve the efficiency and cost
recovery practices of the public enterprises necessary to cover
operating costs, debt servicing, and a share of investment expenditures
for the expansion and inprovement of services.   A basic 1990-1991
financial  progranm    for  SANMA  (water  and  sewerage),  HONDI7gL
(telecomunications), and ENEE (power), is in the proeess of being
defined. To improve economic efficiency in the use of resources fro
these public utilities by the Central Goverrnent, as of January 1,
3991   pricing practices of public enterprises will be modified to
reflect the true cost to the Central GCvernment of using public
utilities' services.
19. The Government will also gradually eliminate the subsidies to
cover the retailing and marketing activities of the public sector
enterprises BANSUPRO and IIMA. Central Goverreent transfers to
BANASUPIE will be reduced to a maximum amonvt of L4 million in 1991 (L6
million in 1990), and to a maximum armunt of L2 million in 1992.   A
partial divestiture program of IHM 's assets will be implemented
starting in January 1991.  Transfers to TIMA for non-marketing related
operations of the state enterprise will be totally eliminated in 1991.
20.  The  Government  has  carcully  reviewed  the  public  Investment
Program for 1990-91 to ensure that new projects adequately contribute
to the adjust7mnt process.   Particular emphasis will be given  to
investments in support of agricultural and industrial activities of the
private sector and the adoquate provision of social servioes s
Non-essential investments will be postponed.  To ensure that the leve\l
of investmiwnt is ccrzpatible with available financial resources, publi<IL        ,
w Wg11Ai



ia5- 56 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
RZPWUCA DE HONDURAS
TOBucipu, M. D. C.                   - 7-                          .
investrent will be limited to 7.5 percent of GDP in 1990, and to a
level that could be financed without recourse to inflationary sources
during 1991.  iTe revised program and financing requirements for 1990
are given in detail in an Aunex attached to this letter.
21. The Govearmont is camnitted to reduce $tth site tf the public
enterprice sector and is carrying out a rationalization program that
besides reducing  the  number of public enterprises,  should provide
valuable short-term revenues to thle Central Covernment from the sale of
some of them. The program began in 1987 and so far, eleven enterprises
formerly belonging to the state investment corporation (ONDI) have
i1zi  ycLvt-14ied, lz: put LILLuuylI ct piuy.Laiu uf J&PL qAiLy Vwa#.  TM
Government will continue the process of divestiture of subsidiaries of
(OOADI) according to the program presented to World Bank staff, and
approved by the Honduran Congress. Through end-1990, the Government
plans to sell to the private sector at least five more enterprises. In
addition, the Govcrnment is evaluating the privatization of several
decentralized agencies and public enterprises outside CONADI.   When
fully implementcd, the process of privatization could yield L144
million, about 4.28 of total Ccntral Govcrnrment revenues for 1990.
C.   Agricultural Sector Reforms.
22. The agricultural sector has considerable potential for expanding
exports  and  otipluy=it.    Increased  agricultural  production  and
productivity  are  important  elements  of  the    adjustment  program.
easures will focus on expanding the productior. of non-traditional
exports, increasing the efficiency in the production of basic grains,
rosrering   tne   continuea   grcwtn   or  tra'tirionai  exports,   anci
rationalizing the activities and finances cf IHMA and BANADESA, the
public sector agricultural developmnt bank.
23. As rentioned, IHMA's role in the camirercialization of basic grains
will be  substantially  modified.   There  shall be  no  quantitative
restrictions on the import of basic grains by private traders. Private
sector firms will be able to import corn, wheat and beans, and the
price guarantex system will be eliminated in accordance with the goals
and  objectives  of  agricultural  policy.    Tlowver,  to  avoid  wide
fluctuations in dcmestic corn prices, the current corn price guarantee
system will be substituted by one which, as agreed with your
institution, will use a five-year moving average of international
prices to define a minimum C.I.F. price to be supported with a variable
levy tariff.  In accordance with the new policy IHMA could limit its
activities in the camr-rcialization of basic grains to purchases of
corn and beans fran small farmors according to a program agreed with
World Bank staff and included in the Annex.  As of crop year 1991, r
it           11



-S 57 -
ANNEX V
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO        Page 8 of 10
IURPUDUCA DS HONVDURM
T.ucigIpe, M. D. C.                  - 8-                        N'.
will charge private films for its costs of storage and drying at market
determined ratos.
24. b reduce the fiscal drain form BDNADESA's continuing operational
losses, BANADbSA's role could be nodified along the lines determined by
a  study  bei ng conducted  in  agreGent with   the World Bank. flte
objectives of the Government regarding BANDESA  are: i) transform the
institution izito an autonromus rural bank to service only small farmers
in rural areas where private cammercial banking is unavailable.  ii}
ijilement a proyranm that will gradually clean the current bank's
portfolio, and which will increase the capital to assets ratio.  To
define the new structure of the agricultural credit; a study, whose
terms of reference have been agreed with World Bank staff, will be
initiated in 1990.
D.  rinancial .Sector Policies.
25. The Goverment recognizes that to foster domstic savings, the
minimmn interest rates on deposits should be maintained above
inflation, and in line with interest rates in the international
markets.   To provide a flexible interest rate approach, Governmnt
bonds will be sold at a discount. Using as a benchmark the inmlicit
interest rate on Government bonds, the damestic inflation rate, the
rate of adjustment of the customs valuation factor, and international
interest rates, the dcmestic cciling on lending interest rates will be
adjusted at least quaterly, as noeded, to keep it capetitive with
interest rates in the international markets. Credit made available by
the Central Bank at rates below their resource cost will be gradually
eliminated starting on January 1, 1991, and subsidized credit lines
financed with international resources will be limited to the amont
outstanding as of December 31, 1990. ID avoid further distortions in
the allocation of credit, the Governmnt will not prcevte any new
credit programs with subsidized credit lines.
26. It has been the policy of this administration to support the
social devclopx4It of the neediest sectors of the economy.
Preferential credit for small farmers is a trademark of our social
policy. We will continue with this practice. However, the Government
realizes that subsidized credit might create distortions that should be
avoided. To this end, and depending on the behavior of Govexzm=nt
revenues, as of the 1992 budget, yearly budget allocations will be made
in the Central Government budget in order to finance the difference
between the market interest rate and the rate charged to small farmers.
27. Adequate supervision and control of financial intermediaries is
one of the Govermrmnt's major concernis. To strengthen the Govern-ment's 
ability  to deal Wit} irregularities in the functioning of financia\
-ga vl'q yp'



*        - 58 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
AXEPUDuCA DE HONDURAS
TseciIpp, M. M. C.                   - 9*
institutions, the Central Bank is issuing regulations requiring the
establishment of reserves against certain non-perforning loans. By end
1991, the Central Bank will have adopted stricter regulatory and
supervisory measurcs as agreed with World Bank staff. These
reguirearents will be aimed at inposing better disclosure rules for
cxmnrcial banks, better provisioning practices for doubtful loars, and
increasing control over related lending  in  camercial banks.   Upon
approval of this inprovod requirements, the Superintendency of Banks
will issue regulations restricting the operation of commercial Banks to
standard iriternational practices, and requiring all comercial banks to
piblish balance slheets and incucm statements and establish external
audits.
E.   Social Sector Policies.
28. The adjustment program, will ultimately provide long-term
sustainable growth and will result in increasing living standards for
the population of Honduras. I1owver, in its initial phase, it may lead
to tem4orary social costs that will aggravate the traditional poverty
that has afflicted the country.  Real wages of the urban poor and small
subsistence farmuars who are not consumcrs of food, way be reduced.
Employment levels nay also be temporary affected.  Health and nutriticn
indicators,  which  have  improved  in  the  past  two  decades,  may
temporarily reverse their trend.
29. The Governrrent of Honduras with the expected full support of the
international ccmmuinity will act decisively to ensure that the eonc i
adjustment program will be implemented with a minizum social cost.  Tb
that effect, the Government of President Callejas has recently created
the Honduran Social lnvestment Fund (PHIS) with the objective of
ten  rarily   financing  employmnt   creation   projects,   helping
rehabilitate social infrastructure, and addressing basic needs by
financing projects executed by municipalities, OPDS (development
organizations), and other local agencies. The FHIS was designed as an
autoncmous institution to operate flexibly and quickly complementing
line ministries's actions in the social sectors. Jt will have a linited
life, however.   Thus, the Goverrment recognizes the urgent need to
start taking emergency measures to inprove the delivery of services by
the Ministries of Ilealth and FMucation, as well as a long-term program
of social. measures to address the structural issues that have
historically afflicted Honduras. In adddition, to guarantee a minimun
food security for the neediest sectors of the population, the
Governrmnt  has  started  inplemnnting  a  food coupon  system.    Your
institution has been involved in the design and implemntation of
similar emergency social programs in Latin America.  To maximize the
Government efforts, we request World Bank assitance in the design of
w  )#fh



A                           _ 59 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 10
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
R?MVUUOA DR HONDURAS
Tegiaolpa, M. D. C.               - 10-
both, the food coupon system, and a program to improve the delivery of
services of the Ministries of Health and Education.
F.  Conclusion.
30. To attain stab3e and sustainable eoonanic growth is a difficult
task.  The Goverrment of Honduras believes that the msasures contained
in its 1990-91 econnic program  are significant steps towards this
end. The support thc World Bank may provide, directly and indirectly,
through its assistance to obtain significant additional resources and
particularly to provide positive flows to our econw=7 is essential to
the success of this program. We trust that together we will build the
path that will lead lionduras to econunic growth within a framework of
peace and devocracy.
plwJD Or IIE CF3TA B3AN-K       
MINLSR CF NATURAL IMSOURES                    MISTER OF mONY
Mm i HPU;WNG



Information Services Division, ITFIS
- 60 -
DIRECTORY OF SELECTED SERVICES PROVIDED BY 1TFIS
Informaton Services Centers (ISCs) keep the official files of current Bank operations and provide staff access to
this information. ISCs serve the Africa, Asia, EMENA, and LAC Regions, PA Complex and institutional offices, and
the Legal Department. The collections include:
(a)  conmpondencefiles of memoranda, incoming and outgoing letters, telexes, electronic mail messages, and
photocopies of FAXs;
(b) documenus, such as project feasibility studies, progress reports and procurement documents; and
(c) Bank repots, such as Staff Appraisal Reports, sector studies and Country Economic Memoranda.
The Intemal Documents Unit (IDU) is a one-stop shop for all Bank reports, regardless of Region. The collection
covers 1946 to the present.
The Records Center stores the records-letters, reports, etc.--retired from units or ISCs; the Archives preserves the
permanent records of the Bank Group. Records stored in the underground vault in Pennsylvania are available the
next business day, if requested before 3:00 p.m.
The ITFP Ubrary keeps books and periodicals on information, technology and personnel topics. It also has a
software lending library.
Other services include advice and guidance on: (a) forms creation and revision; (b) preparation of manual
directives; (c) records disposition and filing systems; (d) reports management (covers, new series, numbering); and
(e) micrographics.
Locations and Contacts for Services
Africa ISC                         Pietro Fontana                 J 8001          x35149/50
Archives/Records Center            Ljiljana Kojic-Bogdanovic      HB1-001         x32843
Asia ISC                           Alvaro Lemos                   A 2064          x75446/7
Directives                         Sarah Livingston               H 4209          x32378
EMENA ISC                          Rama Rajakumar                 H 10-140        x32993
Forms                              Diego Hernandez                H 4207          x32380
Institutional ISC                  Barbara Buckingham             E 3200          x82040
Internal Documents Unit            Robert Newton                  JB3-180         x34641/77
ITFP Library                       Sue O'Neill                    F 3000          72025
LAC ISC                            Alvaro Lemos                   1 5072          x39444/5/6
Legal (IBRD/IDA) ISC               Barbara Buclingham             F 7019          x72511
Records Disposition/Filing Systems    Karl Lawrence/Flavia Fonseca  H 4009/H 4203  x32365/x33176
Reports Management/Micrographics   Pietro Polles                  JB3-150         x34790
July 1990



IORD 19i
|r          8         8                    8         6                  T         R a*uFt           -,d h                            M                      Ze x .c     M   ICOr
jB E L I Z E                                                                                                                                                                               adF tlsn                             
jOAT4N                                                                                                                ROtO.
i                                                                                                                                        t   of wsslarre of    |   EL SALVADOR      S N I CAR AG L A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E SLVDORNIARQU
-* Pu8!rlo Co-es t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRUJIL                                                                      L;. Soo4ds>a~1-,&<                                                                          CCTA 
GUATEMALA                        1BS                                                                                                                                                                        , ,,___
5AM.EDRO SULA. -
---NiE - ana gt
A\R                                                                                                                                                                 n. blNDRAS r,.
\/,,2,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at.gr,c c,.oo ->-tTq,                                                                                               - ,=t^ :Ie oucNtai  A   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neeeiefEL   SALVADOR A l' NfMp<.oe eNICARAGUA ?                                                 MiPe
4moso9   C H   f _.\ j                                                                               Elravaeons m Meters~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cat
Erasra       N                                                                                                                             --                    RICA
N.,- 1U E19' 
,S5ATA            SOSLAOleaoc
RI tarorse  ~        ~  Iasarar- 
I ARA            arers.ejo           rter 
I                                                                                                                      Pav~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JtiAP  aic      A PeRtted Road St ~trea
00    OUt                  Masograra                                                                  tIV.,oa ~~~~,dAtinrAirport
-    AcfElecstionsa in MeterS 
aetieta  Cantc~~~~~~ga >  otcrrv~~~~TEGKUCIEERSLP2A                                          %         '                               H      ,00N  D  UR  AS                                                  1.
Se A.t,,a --  CujeareeC eozMc eS                                                                       2               5Paced Roads0
____    Grve  Road
86-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~at   od
c-c---t--c-c Railroads ~ ~       ~         ~          I.W198



