Page  1
Conformed Copy 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF054052 
 
World Bank Iraq 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Disabilities Project) 
 
between 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF IRAQ 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(Acting as Administrator of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund) 
 
Dated November 23 , 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF054052 
 
ITF GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 23, 2005, between the 
MINISTRY OF
 HEALTH OF IRAQ (the “Recipient” and this term shall include any 
successor to the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of grant funds (the “Grant Funds”) 
contributed by various donors (collectively the “Donors”) to the World Bank Iraq Trust 
Fund (“ITF ”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Donors have agreed to provide the Grant Funds to the 
Recipient in support of its priority program of reconstruction and development activities; 
 
(B) 
the Donors have requested the Administrator, and the Administrator has 
agreed, to administer the Grant Funds; 
 
(C) 
the Administrator has established ITF for purposes of receiving and 
administering the Grant Funds; 
 
(D) 
the Grant Funds shall finance, 
inter
 
alia
,
such investment and/or sector 
programs and activities as shall from time to time be recommended by the Iraqi Strategic 
Review Board (as this term is hereinafter defined) and approved by the Administrator; and 
 
(E) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Administrator to assist 
in the financing of the Project;  
 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia, 
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) 
The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Administrator, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) Article 
II; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.05; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X; and 
 
(x) Article 
XI. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient, except as provided in subparagraph (v) 
below; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this ITF Grant Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant, except as provided in subparagraph 
(vi) below; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account; 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(v) 
the word “Borrower” in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “Recipient or another entity receiving 
funds from the Bank or the Association in connection with any 
projects or activities in Iraq”; and 
 
(vi) 
the word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 
is replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the preamble to this Agreement shall have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following terms shall have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“DWG” means the Disabilities Working Group to be established and 
maintained pursuant to paragraph 3 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework” 
means the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework for the 
Project dated November 17, 2005, as the same may be updated or revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Administrator; 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Iraqi Strategic Review Board” means the Iraqi Strategic Review Board 
responsible for providing overall guidance on coordination of Donors’ assistance to Iraq;  
(e) 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations; 
(f) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
November 17, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of 
Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(g) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be prepared 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(h) 
“PMT” means the Project Management Team to be established and 
maintained pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
-4- 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to nineteen million five hundred thousand Dollars ($19,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant shall be made only to 
the extent that resources adequate to meet such disbursement shall have been transferred 
from the Donors to ITF. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, social and health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Page  6
-5- 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator and furnish such update to the 
Administrator not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding 
Procurement Plan, for the Administrator’s approval.  
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
a
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator, 
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the 
Administrator such other information concerning said records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Administrator’s representatives 
to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
Page  7
-6- 
 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 5(b) of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a Financial Monitoring Report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Administrator not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature thereof by the 
parties hereto. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Health of Iraq shall be the representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Health 
Government of Iraq 
Bab Al-Mouadham Square 
Baghdad, Iraq 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
  248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
    64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF IRAQ 
 
/s/ Amar Al-Saffar 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund) 
 
/s/ Christiaan Poortman 
 
By  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
IRAQI STRATEGIC REVIEW BOARD 
 
/s/ Saik Al-Rasool 
By  
 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed Expenditures 
Category
in Dollars Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works 
4,700,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
11,230,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
1,920,000 
100% 
(4) Training 
1,190,000 
100% 
(5) Operating Costs 
110,000 
100% 
(6) Unallocated 
350,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 19,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means costs 
incurred under the Project on account of: (i) maintenance of office equipment and vehicles; 
(ii) transportation and travel, including per diem allowances for Project staff in travel status; 
(iii) office supplies, utilities and office administration, including translation, printing and 
advertising; (iv) fuel costs; (v) communication costs; (vi) costs for production of bidding 
documents and drawings; (vii) commercial bank charges; and (viii) any other Project 
management support costs, as may be agreed between the Recipient and the Administrator 
from time to time, but excluding salaries of Iraqi civil servants.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent for consulting firms; (iv) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent for individual consultants; (v) Operating Costs; and (vi) training; all under 
such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the delivery of improved rehabilitation 
and prosthetic services that reduce the burden of physical disability.  
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Policy Development and Partnerships
1. 
Establishment of a multisectoral DWG and development of a national policy and 
legislative framework for the disabled.  
 
2. 
Support of an assessment of NGOs involved in disabilities in Iraq to determine 
the kinds of services NGOs currently provide; support of activities, including conferences 
and workshops, designed to enhance partnerships; identification of areas of potential 
cooperation between the government and NGOs; and support of capacity building of 
NGOs, including registration of the disabled, distribution of wheelchairs, community-
based surveys, and public awareness activities. 
3. 
Implementation of a public awareness campaign to sensitize the public to the 
needs of the disabled.   
Part B
:
Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons
1. 
Construction of new rehabilitation centers and workshops for production of 
prostheses and orthoses, and renovation of selected existing centers and workshops.   
 
2. 
Provision of specialized equipment and materials for prosthetic workshops, 
equipment for rehabilitation centers, medical aids (such as wheelchairs and walking aids), 
computer workstations for management and registration of beneficiaries, and office 
equipment and furniture for the selected locations.   
 
3.  
Provision of training activities to improve the services for physical rehabilitation, 
including: (i) specialized training for production and fitting of prostheses; (ii) training for 
physiotherapists; (iii) management training for workshop and rehabilitation center 
managers; and (iv) specialized training in physical therapy for hospital based physicians.  
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
Part C
:
Project Management 
Project management and support activities necessary for effective 
implementation of the Project, including: (i) the provision of office equipment, supplies 
and vehicles; (ii) the provision of technical assistance; (iii) the provision of training for 
PMT staff in project management, procurement and financial management; and (iv) the 
carrying out of annual external audits of the Project’s records and accounts.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2007. 
Page  13
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Administrator of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts for goods and 
works shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions set out in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph. 
(b) 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the following criteria shall be 
followed in procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Administrator shall 
be
 
used. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall 
be made available to prospective bidders, at least 28 days prior to 
the deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in 
person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable 
opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no non-
registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-
bid criterion. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by 
courier service or by mail. 
(viii) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably 
immediately, but no later than one hour, after the deadline for 
submission of bids. 
(ix) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and 
within the specified period, agreed with the Administrator. 
(x) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Administrator. 
(xi) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders 
within the initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not 
necessary. Extension of bid validity may be sought only under 
exceptional circumstances. 
(xii) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Administrator: (A) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (B) for all 
subsequent requests for extensions irrespective of the period. 
Page  15
-14- 
 
(xiii) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or 
any other bidders. 
(xiv) Re-bidding 
shall
 not be carried out without the Administrator’s 
prior concurrence. 
(xv) 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a 
supplier’s performance security shall apply to a specific contract 
under which it was furnished. 
2. Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which the Administrator agrees meet the requirements for Direct 
Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions for Direct Contracting.  
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
B.
 
Other Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Administrator agrees meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and 
services of a procurement consulting firm, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Administrator agrees meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection may, with the 
Administrator's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph 5.4, subject to prior 
approval of the Administrator. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Administrator: 
(a) 
each contract for goods and works procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; 
(b) 
(i) the first three contracts for goods or works, regardless of value, 
procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, (ii) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding, and (iii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; 
(c) 
the first three contracts for goods or works, regardless of value, procured 
on the basis of Shopping; 
(d) 
each contract for goods procured through Direct Contracting; and 
(e) 
(i) the first three contracts for firms and individual consultants regardless 
of value; (i) each contract for firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
Page  17
-16- 
 
and (iii) each contract for individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; and 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Administrator.  
Page  18
-17- 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than February 28, 2006, prepare a Project 
Implementation Manual in a form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator. The 
Project Implementation Manual shall set out details of all procedures, guidelines, 
timetables and criteria required for the Project, including the technical, financial, 
environmental, social and operational arrangements for the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, and except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of the Administrator, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
 
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than January 31, 2006 establish, and 
thereafter maintain, PMT with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Administrator. PMT shall be headed by a PMT project director assisted by an adequate 
number of staff (including a technical coordinator, a procurement officer, a financial 
officer, an accountant, and technical staff). The project director and staff of PMT shall 
have qualifications and experience, and be appointed on terms and conditions, 
satisfactory to the Administrator. 
 
(b) 
PMT shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) the planning and coordination 
of all Project activities; (ii) financial management including accounting and 
disbursements; (iii) procurement of goods, works and services, including related contract 
management; and (iv) the monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. 
3. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than March 31, 2006 establish, and 
thereafter maintain, DWG with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Administrator. DWG's membership shall include representatives of the Recipient, other 
relevant ministries and government agencies, the prime minister's office and the national 
assembly, and representatives of the disabled. 
 
(b) 
DWG shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) undertaking surveys and data 
collection necessary for the development of a national policy and legislative framework 
for the disabled; (ii) developing a national policy and legislative framework for the 
disabled; (iii) facilitating coordination among relevant ministries, government agencies 
and representatives of the disabled for that purpose and other activities under the Project; 
and (iv) providing advisory services on policy issues relating to the Project.  
Page  19
-18- 
 
B. 
Environmental and Social Safeguard Provisions
4. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out the recommendations, and comply with the 
criteria, set out in the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework 
and, to that end, shall comply with the objectives, policies, procedures and other 
provisions set forth therein. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall refrain from taking any action which shall prevent or 
interfere with its carrying out of, and compliance with, the said recommendations, criteria 
and other provisions. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the list of pesticides selected for use in 
the Project do not include persistent organic pesticides and WHO Category-1 pesticides 
and that all precautionary measures are taken before people use the facilities where 
pesticides were used. 
C. 
Reports and Reviews
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set out in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare on a quarterly basis, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than one (1) month after the end 
of each calendar quarter, commencing March 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Administrator each report referred to in 
 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, not later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the date 
of receipt by the Administrator of such report, or such later date as the Administrator 
shall request, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter. 
Page  20
-19- 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
1.  Policy Development and Partnerships 
 
Policy Development
Policy framework for the disabled developed and 
adopted by Iraq.  
 
Partnerships
At least 3 NGOs have an official agreement with 
Iraq to deliver services to disabled and their 
families.   
 
2. Delivery of Services to the Disabled  
 
Number of disabled persons who received 
prosthetic devices, medical aids and physical 
therapy from  rehabilitation facilities.  
 
3. Project Management and Monitoring 
and Evaluation 
 
The Ministry of Health is capable of managing, 
supervising and monitoring the Project.  
 
