Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1835 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/12/2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Iraq 
Project ID: P096774 
Project Name: Emergency Disabilities Project 
Task Team Leader: Jean-Jacques Frere 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 12, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: December 29, 2005 
Managing Unit: MNSHD 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Health (50%);Other social services (50%) 
Theme: Injuries and non-communicable diseases (P);Conflict prevention and post-
conflict reconstruction (S);Other social protection and risk management (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
17.20
17.20 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The overall objective of the proposed project is to help prevent the disabled from falling deeper 
into poverty, as well as to help reduce the burden of physical and psycho-social disabilities 
through targeted and cost-effective rehabilitation services in a community setting.  Specifically, 
the project will increase the capacity of the Government and stakeholders to:  
 
-
Upgrade the infrastructure and equipment of 11 specialized rehabilitation centers throughout 
the country, including improving capacity to produce high-quality prosthetics and orthotics for 
amputees.  
 
-
Improve the ability of policy-makers to assess disabilities requirements, ensure quality 
specialized care for the disabled, and provide opportunities for them to return to productive lives 
in their communities.  
 
Page  2
-
Improve the information base on the disabled, including collecting and analyzing information 
on the current status of disabilities services, establishing assessment and registration capacities 
for the country, and developing a long term strategy for support to the disabled, including a focus 
on community-driven services.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The proposed project, which is consistent with the Government's priority to provide effective and 
high quality rehabilitation services to the disabled and help them return to society as productive 
individuals, comprises four components:  
 
Component 1: Service Delivery to the Disabled  (estimated cost US$13.2 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to upgrade the services to the disabled throughout the 
country.  Support will be provided to improving the physical infrastructure of 11 specialized 
centers, located throughout the country, most of which have been seriously damaged and 
neglected.  Technical assistance and training will be given to technical staff in up-to-date 
rehabilitation approaches and techniques, in particular, drawing on the substantial regional 
capacity that exists in this field.  The project will also provide a one-year supply of raw materials 
for the prosthetics/orthotics production units.  
 
Component 2: Development of a Long-term Strategy and Action Plan for the Disabled 
(estimated cost US$.5 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to prepare a long-term strategy, legal framework, and action 
plan, based on a community-driven services approach.  As a basis for the strategy, an inventory 
of the current status of infrastructure and equipment, staffing, technical capacity, and national 
planning for services to the disabled will be carried out. Technical assistance and training will be 
provided by the project to support these activities.  
 
Component 3: Capacity Building to Support Implementation of the Long-term Strategy for the 
Disabled (estimated cost US$3 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to support capacity building activities, through technical 
assistance and training, for key Government staff responsible for disabilities policy and 
programs, and NGOs operating at the community level in delivery of services to the disabled.  
The technical assistance and training, which would be carried out both within Iraq and in 
neighboring countries, would be focused on developing capacity to assess disabilities 
requirements and provide specialized care, including physical therapy. A national assessment 
and registration system will also be developed to provide an integrated database on the disabled.  
 
Component 4:  Monitoring and Evaluation and Project Management (estimated cost US$.5 
million)  
 
The objectives of this component are two-fold: (i) to put in place a framework for monitoring 
and evaluation of project and Government program performance, through tracking of project and 
program outputs and impact, based on key indicators and relevant baseline data; and (ii) to put in 
Page  3
place a project management function, building on the capacities of the Project Management 
Team (PMT) which is coordinating the activities of the on-going Emergency Health 
Rehabilitation Project (EHRP) in the Ministry of Health.    
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Selected  sites throughout Iraq.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The Project is rated category 'B'.  Impacts would be those associated mainly with (i) construction 
of rehabilitation and new Disability Rehabilitation Centers (e.g., safety, dust, noise, waste 
material, and vehicular traffic); (ii) provision of sanitary services, water supply and waste 
management; and (iii) operation and maintenance of Disability Rehabilitation Centers. Because 
of the emergency conditions, the requirement to carry out a limited Environmental Analysis as 
part of project preparation will be waived.  However, for sub-projects with possible moderate or 
minor adverse environmental impacts, a limited Environmental Analysis will be done during 
project design for World Bank approval prior to execution of such works. The Environmental 
and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) would be disclosed in the country 
and in the Infoshop in November 2005.Based on the ESSAF, the following standards will be 
applied during implementation: (i) inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice (ECOP) 
in the bid documents for rehabilitation and extension works; (ii) use of Safeguard Procedures for 
Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts; (iii) use of the Checklist of likely 
Environmental and Social Impacts of Subproject; (iv) review and oversight of any major 
reconstruction works by specialists; (v) implementation of environmentally and socially sound 
options for civil works; and (vi) provision for adequate budget and satisfactory institutional 
arrangements to monitor effective implementation and adequately operate and maintain sanitary 
facilities after project completion. Capacity building on Safeguards and on the implementation of 
the ESSAF has already been undertaken with the Ministry of Environment and other line 
Ministries under the Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project.  
 
There will be construction of about eight new facilities in government owned land without 
squatters and rehabilitation and extension of about ten existing facilities in the Project.  The 
building extensions would be done within existing plots of land owned by MOH and without 
squatters. Therefore, World Bank Operational Policy (OP 4.12) would not be triggered since 
there should not be any involuntary relocation of populations or expropriation of privately owned 
land.  However, the ESSAF, specifically elaborated for due diligence of emergency projects in 
Iraq, should be used to ensure that this is indeed the case and should there be any need for 
expropriation of privately owned land or/and involuntary relocation of population, the same 
guidelines will be followed.  
 
The MOH/PMT would employ a safeguard specialist who would be trained on World Bank 
safeguard policy and procedures for monitoring compliance with World Bank policy during 
project implementation and for reporting. Quarterly and annual implementation progress reports 
should include a section for reporting compliance with World Bank safeguard policy.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Mario Antonio Zelaya (MNSHD) 
Page  4
Ms Oroub El Abed (MNSRE) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The ESSAF would be disclosed in the country and at the Infoshop in November 2005.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  11/30/2005 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
The ESSAF would be disclosed in the country before appraisal.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jean-Jacques Frere 
09/28/2005 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sherif Kamel F. Arif 
10/03/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Akiko Maeda 
09/28/2005 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
