Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. T7663-IQ
THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
OF US$19.5 MILLION
FOR AN
EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
November 23, 2005
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective September 11, 2005)
Currency Unit = US$
US$ 1 = Iraqi Dinar 1,465
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPA            Coalition Provisional Authority
CQ             Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
ECOP           Environmental Codes of Practice
EDP            Emergency Disabilities Project
EHRP           Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project
ESSAF          Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
FMA            Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
FMR            Financial Monitoring Report
FMS            Financial Management Specialist
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICRC           International Comn-ittee of the Red Cross
IDA            International Development Association
IRFFI          International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq
ITF            World Bank Iraq Trust Fund
MIM            Master Implementation Manual
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOH            Ministry of Health
MOLSA          Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOPDC          Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
OFFP           Oil for Food Programme
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PFS            Project Financial Statements
PMO            United States Program Management Office
PMT            Project Management Team
PP             Procurement Plan
PTSD           Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
PWD            Persons with Disability
QCBS           Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SBD            Standard Bidding Document
SOE            Statement of Expenses
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
UNDB           United Nations Developmental Business
UNDG           United Nations Development Group
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President                               Christiaan Poortman
Country Director                             Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director                              Michal Rutkowski
Sector Manager                               Akiko Maeda
Task Team Leader                             Jean-Jacques Frere



MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................I
A. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY                                    .2
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY                                  .7
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                .8
D.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .10
E. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .17
F. RISKS.18
Annex 1. Result Framework and Monitoring .22
Annex 2: Summary Cost Tables .23
Annex 3: Project Management .26
Annex 4: Procurement Arrangements and Procurement Plan .29
Annex 5: Financial Management and Disbursement .35
Annex 6: Results-Based Supervision Plan .42
Annex 7: Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework .43
Annex 7A. Codes of Practice for Prevention and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts .44
Annex 7B: Safeguards Procedures for Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts .49
Annex 8A. Proposed Inputs by Center .53
Annex 8B. Cost Estimates by Phase and Center .54
Annex 9: Project Implementation Schedule .55
Annex 10: International Donor Health Activities in the Republic of Iraq .56
Annex 11: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events .60
Annex 12: Names of Staff/Consultants Who Worked on the Project .61



MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grant Recipient:         Ministry of Health, Republic of Iraq
Beneficiary:             Ministry of Health
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Health
Loan/Credit/Grant:       Grant
Amount & Terms:          US$19.5 million on grant terms
Objectives &             The overall objective of the Project is to support the
Description:             delivery of improved rehabilitation and prosthetic services
that reduce the burden of physical disability. Specifically,
the Project will: (i) support the development of a national
policy on disabilities; (ii) increase the capacity of Iraqi
institutions and other stakeholders to meet the needs of
disabled persons; (iii) strengthen the partnerships between
the Government and civil society in provision of services
to disabled persons; and (iv) upgrade the infrastructure
and equipment of selected rehabilitation and prosthetic
centers throughout Iraq.
Technical Annex:         This Project has been prepared in accordance with
Emergency Recovery Assistance procedures (Operational
Policy 8.50). There is no Project Appraisal Document for
this Project.
Disbursement:            The Grant is expected to be fully disbursed by
September 30, 2007.
Closing Date:            September 30, 2007
Project ID Number:       P096774
Map No.                  IBRD 34363



MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A.     BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
Country Background
1.    Abundant natural and human resources enabled Iraq to attain the status of a middle-income
country in the 1970s. The country developed good infrastructure and well-performing healthcare and
education systems, widely regarded as among the best in the Middle East. Income per capita rose to over
US$3,600 in the early 1980s. Since that time, successive wars and a repressive, state-dominated economic
system have stifled growth and development and debilitated basic infrastructure and social services.
International trade sanctions imposed in 1991 took a further toll on the economy.
2.     After hitting a low in the wake of the 2003 invasion, real GDP rose by about 47 percent in 2004,
reflecting strong oil prices and partial recovery of the oil sector. Per capita income, which was around
US$3,600 in the early 1980s, fell to US$770 by 2001, with a slight increase to US$940 in 2005 - only a
quarter of what Iraqis enjoyed twenty-five years ago. Although data remain unreliable, surveys suggest
that poverty has worsened in recent years, and unemployment is estimated to be at least 30 percent. The
Government continues to provide large untargeted subsidies for food, fuel, and utilities, amounting in
total to about 50 percent of GDP. Although the subsidies provide important support for the poor and
vulnerable, they distort markets, disproportionately benefit the wealthy, encourage black markets and
smuggling, and burden the budget, crowding out potentially more efficient spending on targeted social
programs.
3.     Real GDP growth is projected at about 2.6 percent in 2005, due to stagnating oil production and
exports. Growth is expected to accelerate to about 10 percent in 2006, predicated on increased security
and political stability, higher oil production and exports, and continued strong world oil prices. Strong
growth also depends on introducing targeted safety nets and implementing structural reforms-including
a gradual reduction in subsidies-to contain recurrent spending and allow for sufficient investment and
reconstruction. Iraq's overriding challenge, for both stability and economic sustainability, is to improve
the management and transparency of oil revenues.
Current Challenges
4.     Over the past year, Iraq has had two political transitions, taking steps toward a constitutionally-
elected government. Nevertheless, the country faces a violent insurgency that is impeding reconstruction
and economic recovery. The pressing and immediate challenges are to restore the rule of law, establish
political legitimacy, and begin to build credible and inclusive institutions. The ability of the Iraqi
Transitional Government to include ethnic and religious groups in the political process will be an
important factor in determining whether a future constitutionally-elected government will improve
security and stability, which are preconditions for successful reconstruction.  In October 2005, a
referendum was held on the new constitution. In December 2005, national elections for the establishment
of a new government were held.
5.     Persistent violence has affected most parts of the country, and continues to hinder reconstruction
efforts, economic recovery, and institutional reform. The instability has hindered the delivery of basic
services to the population by slowing reconstruction efforts, impeding private investment, and adding
2



significantly to security costs. Most services have not returned to their pre-2003 levels, and regional
disparities continue.
Disabilities and the Health Sector
6.     The ongoing violence, large number of war veterans from recent conflicts, and the breakdown of
community support systems with limited access to health and rehabilitation services are having a
devastating effect on persons with disabilities (PWD) in Iraq, and increasing the already high burden of
disease. The burden imposed on Iraqi society by disabilities is huge. Given the high unemployment rates
and poor community services, becoming disabled poses a serious risk for the entire family to slip into
poverty. Incomes foregone by PWD are compounded by the opportunity cost to the family caregiver who
might otherwise be participating in the labor force. When disability affects the head of a household, the
impact on a family's welfare can be devastating. In many cases, women in families with PWD, in
addition to caring for the family, including the disabled family member, face the additional burden of
providing an income for the household and dealing with the social stress that often results from shifting
gender roles in the household. This double burden takes a serious toll on women. Children in families
with PWD are also less likely to attend school or have higher drop-out rates.
7.     Persons with Disabilities. Disabled persons in Iraq represent a distinctly underserved and
growing segment of the population. The past two decades of consecutive wars and associated violence
have resulted in an ever increasing number of war-related injuries and disabilities among the population.
Although current data are not reliable, the on-going conflict continues to exert a heavy toll on the
population, and the cumulative number of persons suffering from physical disabilities (excluding
blindness, deafness, and disabilities resulting from chronic diseases) is estimated at 250,000. Within this,
the number of amputees was 80,000 to 100,000 in 2002, with 80 percent from lower limb amputations
and the number of people suffering from spinal cord damage was 8,000. It is estimated that 70 percent of
disabled people are male, and 30 percent are female. The specific burden on children is as yet unknown.
8.    Key issues for disabled persons include the following:
9.     Poverty and lack of social services have emerged as significant issues over the past two
decades. In 1980, Iraq's income, education, and health measures were high compared to regional
averages. However, in the intervening years, the situation reversed itself. It is estimated that at least two
million people are unemployed - about 30 percent of the total workforce - and underemployment is also
high. At the same time, due largely to the conflicts and mismanagement of resources, social sector
services have declined steadily, in terms of quality of care and resource allocations. This has had the
greatest impact on those groups which are the most vulnerable, including PWD.
10.   Once considered one of the best in the region, the Iraqi health system has declined
significantly over the past two decades. During the 1980s, Iraq's health sector consisted of a highly
advanced curative system, with minimal focus on public health. During the 1990s, funds available for
health were reduced by 90 percent and health outcomes became among the poorest in the region, and well
below levels found in countries of comparable income. According to the 2003 UNICEF/WHO Health and
Nutrition Watching Brief, Iraq has the region's second highest infant mortality (83/1,000 live births in
2002) and under-five mortality rates (117/1,000 in 2001), a stark reversal from the improvements in these
areas in the late 1970s and early 1980s. During the 1990s, maternal mortality grew three-fold, with about
30 percent of women giving birth without a qualified health worker in attendance. Adult mortality
increased and life expectancy fell to under 60 years for men and women by 2000. This is within the
context of an expanding population which has doubled in the past 25 years. The population now stands at
27.1 million and is growing at about three percent per year. Over this same period, there has been a
serious decline in accessibility and quality of health services. Significant budget cuts, coupled with poor
management, neglect, and looting due to recent conflicts, have resulted in deteriorating health services
infrastructure. Training opportunities for health professionals also suffered during this period, and as a
3



result, health professionals became isolated from the outside world, and were not able to keep up with
advances in the field of medicine. Many in fact chose to leave the country.
11.    Care of disabled people has deteriorated significantly over the past two decades as a result
of conflicts and mismanagement. The breakdown of community support systems and the limited access
to health services and rehabilitation services have had a devastating effect on PWD. The Government's
difficulties in providing basic health services have had a particularly negative impact on recent victims of
acts of violence. Complications from injuries are common and can result in severe additional disabilities
due to lack of appropriate treatment. The capacity of the Government to provide treatment to the victims
of war and other violent acts is limited; many complications occur and reconstructive surgery is almost
impossible. In the current context, the Government has the double burden of providing adequate care to
the recent victims of violence, as well as maintaining care of those whose disabilities are not related to the
recent and on-going conflicts.
12.    Existing centers dedicated to the rehabilitation of disabled patients and the manufacture of
prosthetic limbs have been looted and most of the facilities have suffered heavy physical damage in recent
years. There are currently 12 rehabilitation centers in Iraq, and 12 prosthesis workshops, including four
in the Kurdistan region, most of which have suffered damage since May 2003. Several workshops are
operated with the assistance of international NGOs such as Handicap International and the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), but in most facilities, equipment is obsolete, and medical supplies
and raw materials are insufficient. Moreover, it must be noted that the technology has dramatically
evolved during recent years, and once the centers are rehabilitated, new equipment reflecting updated
technology will need to be provided and the staff retrained.
13.    There are also three hospitals for spinal injuries (located in Baghdad and Salah-il-Deen), as well
as one former army hospital that provides special care for disabled persons. The existing capacity in-
country for the manufacture of artificial limbs could reach 5,000 per year if raw materials were available.
This is far below the annual requirement of 20,000 protheses.
14.   In addition to the services provided through the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs (MOLSA) provides welfare services, as well as some equipment and vocational
training, to PWD and their families. The MOLSA operates several specialized institutes for the
physically handicapped, the deaf, the blind, and the mentally disabled. It employs most of the social
workers in Iraq and was traditionally responsible for the social protection systems put in place in the
1 980s. It is not apparent that close coordination of activities for disabled people exists between the MOH,
MOLSA and other ministries and agencies providing disability services, especially in the absence of a
coherent national policy on disabilities. For these reasons, participation of the MOLSA in preparation of
the Project has been necessary in order to avoid duplication and ensure optimal coordination with the
MOH.
15.    There has been a dramatic increase in the incidence of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
(PTSD) as a result of the recent conflict. Poverty, instability, and the recent conflict have also taken a
toll on the mental health of the population. It is difficult to assess the extent of the mental health burden in
Iraq, but research under the recent Bank-financed Post-conflict Mental Health Project in Bosnia showed
that in post-conflict societies, mental disorders are widespread and represent a major obstacle to economic
development. Poor mental health also reduces job opportunities for affected individuals and stands in the
way of development of human and social capital.
16.    Given the breadth of the needs in the disabilities area and the limited resources and timeframe,
this Project will not focus directly on mental health and depression, although these dimensions of
disability will be taken into account in the development of the national framework on disabilities.
Addressing the needs of people with these disabilities will also require stabilization of the general security
situation, personal safety and job security, strong community support and social support as well as the
4



restoration of adequate health and rehabilitation services. However, the Bank is actively seeking donors
to provide parallel support in this area and is also exploring options for supporting these activities with
future IDA financing.
17.    Many NGOs are now operating in Iraq to help disabled people, but most lack resources and
capacity. Establishment of NGOs, except in the northern part of the country where NGOs have been
active for a few years, has begun only recently in Iraq. Around 6,000 NGOs have been created in Iraq
within the past two years which poses a major coordination challenge. Many of these NGOs are very
small, lacking in resources, and poorly organized. In addition, the scope of their activities is not well-
defined. Without support, the newly established NGOs working on different aspects of disability have
very limited capacity to be effective partners in addressing the needs of disabled people. Partnership with
NGOs operating at the community and regional levels presents an opportunity for addressing disabilities
issues more efficiently and effectively. Also, given the limited experience of the Government in working
with NGOs, both the Government and the NGO sectors will have to invest substantial efforts to learn to
work as effective partners in the future, respecting differences in approach and the comparative
advantages of each sector. The commitment of the Government to work with the NGO sector in the area
of disabilities was re-confirmed during the appraisal mission.
18.    The inter-ministerial oversight commission for disabilities has been proposed but not yet
formally established under the new Government. Before the 2003 war, a special commission
established by the armed forces was responsible for the care of PWD. When this commission was
abolished and the facilities operated by the army were transferred to MOH authority, the responsibilities
for the care of PWD became unclear. Through the leadership of the Directorate of Medical Operations
and Specialized Services of the MOH, a commission - the Iraqi Commission for the Disabled - to be
attached to the Council of Ministers, was being considered by in interim Government in 2004. Members
of the Board of Directors were to include representatives from eight ministries, representatives of
community groups, and representatives of disabled persons. This commission, however, has not yet been
formally established under the new Government.
Government Strategy and Donor Involvement
19.    National Development StrateMv. In July 2005, the Iraqi Transitional Government presented a
National Development Strategy (NDS) aimed at placing Iraq on a course toward a diversified market-
based economy. The strategy focuses on good governance, private sector-led growth, and strong social
safety nets. The four pillars of the NDS are: (i) strengthening the foundations of economic growth; (ii)
revitalizing the private sector; (iii) improving the quality of life through, among other things, investing in
the social sectors; and (iv) strengthening good governance and improving security. The NDS gives
priority in the short term to restoring basic services and creating employment. Although donors pledged
US$32 billion at the International Conference for Iraq in Madrid in October 2003, continued lack of
security has complicated delivery of donor assistance and lessened its impact on the ground. At the recent
Iraq International Conference in Brussels in June 2005, donors were urged to find ways to expedite
project implementation and, if necessary, to re-allocate funds to faster disbursing activities. Donors have
deposited about US$1 billion in the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq (IRFFI), which
consists of two trust funds, one administered by the World Bank and another by the United Nations.
Nearly all donor deposits to IRFFI have been allocated to projects that are ongoing. takes the form of
bilateral assistance, mainly from the United States. Japan is the second largest donor.
20.    Government Strate2v for Disabled Persons. The Iraq Transitional Government placed high
priority on improving its services to support rehabilitation of disabled persons, and their re-entry into
productive life. Initiating its response to the above-mentioned challenges, in 2004, the Iraqi Interim
Government prepared a strategy document outlining the underlying principles for development of a plan
5



for the recovery of the country's health sector.' The overall objective of the short to medium term
strategy is to improve access to and quality of health services for the population of Iraq. The key
challenges identified in the strategy include: (i) meeting the most urgent needs of the sector, including
rebuilding the health services infrastructure and the human resource capacity of the sector; (ii)
strengthening management of the health system; (iii) re-organizing the pharmaceutical sector and
providing for an efficient drug-supply chain; (iv) reducing health risks in the population; and (v) tackling
the causes for the recent rise in communicable and non-communicable diseases.
21.    Within these broad areas, a reform of the physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services is
recognized as one of the priority areas of the MOH. In November 2004, the MOH prepared a draft
national strategy for the physically disabled which includes an outline of planned interventions to improve
the quality of and access to care for people with disabilities.2 Main areas of the plan were identified as:
medical rehabilitation of individuals who have suffered serious physical injuries; and psychological
rehabilitation of both the individual and the community involved.
22.    In this context, the MOH has developed a broad framework for care of disabled people, with
realistic targets to be achieved within the next five years. The Project, which would meet only a very
small portion of the real needs in the area of medical rehabilitation, could be followed by a more
comprehensive project, provided sufficient resources and donor partnerships and support are available,
and the security context in the country has improved.
23.    Donor Involvement. The MOH, in a recent review of donor support, estimates that donor
support to the health sector, totaling about US$1 billion, is committed from four main international
donors, i.e., the United States (including the Iraq Reconstruction Management Office, the Department of
Defense Iraq Projects and Contracting Office, and USAID), the United Nations (UN) agencies (including
WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA), the World Bank, and the Government of Japan. In addition, many other
countries have contributed to the effort through the UN and World Bank Trust Funds. The leading donor
is the United States with its Supplemental Aid commitment totaling about US$800 million, to support
infrastructure rehabilitation and construction (selected hospitals and primary health care centers),
equipment, and technical assistance and training for health care workers and MOH management and
administration staff. The UN agencies are committed to providing about US$70 million in assistance,
primarily to selected hospital emergency wards, National Drug Control Laboratory, ambulances,
equipment and supplies, and training programs. WHO support is focused on a non-communicable
diseases and mental health program as well as on Primary Care and micronutrient deficiencies. The
Government of Japan, which is contributing direct assistance to the health sector in the amount of
approximately US$600 million, is supporting rehabilitation of 13 hospitals in southern Iraq; provision of
ambulances; and medical equipment for selected hospitals and primary health care centers. Some
countries, like the Gulf States, have provided bilateral assistance, and the Multinational Forces and a
number of NGOs have given support. A table showing current and planned international donor health
activities in Iraq can be found in Annex 10.
24.    Most of the recovery support to the health sector - about US$650 million - is going towards
improving the infrastructure. About US$260 million is being provided for equipment; and for training
and technical assistance, about US$1.0 million is available. The substantial investment in buildings and
equipment reflected above is a rational priority for the Iraqi Government, given the years of neglect and
deterioration of basic infrastructure and services.
25.    Although the total amount of funding committed by the donors to Iraq's overall reconstruction
program is very large, the security situation on the ground in Iraq is significantly impeding progress in
' Health, Labor and Social Affairs, Defense, Human Rights, Planning, Education, Sports and Youth, Housing and
Reconstruction. Health in Iraq. Ministry of Health. September 2004
2 Rehabilitation and Caring for the Disabled in Iraq. Ministry of Health. November 2004
6



implementing the various donor programs. Recovery of the health sector requires stability and security,
and the current violence has created an environment where donors and NGOs cannot freely operate and
provide direct support to the recovery program.
B.     BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
26.    The World Bank Second Interim Strategy Note for Iraq was presented to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors in September 2005. The strategy builds on the achievements of the First Interim
Strategy Note, and is aligned with the Iraqi Transitional Government's National Development Strategy.
The Bank's overarching objective is to help Iraq build efficient, inclusive, transparent, and accountable
institutions as needed for stability, good governance, and sustainable economic prosperity. Better
institutional frameworks, policies, and systems will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of both
national expenditures and international aid. Under the umbrella of institution building, the Bank Group's
work program is organized into four pillars, supporting government efforts to: (i) restore basic service
delivery; (ii) enable private sector development; -(iii) strengthen social safety nets; and (iv) improve public
sector govemance.
27.    The strategy relies on the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) and IDA to finance projects, and on
the World Bank budget for the economic and sector work and policy advice that is needed. The ITF has
about US$370 million to cover nine projects which are currently under implementation. The IDA
resources that are now available to Iraq amount to US$500 million which are allocated to four selected
sectors: water and sanitation, transportation (roads), power, and education. The first IDA project - the
Third Emergency Education Project - was approved by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors
on November 29, 2005. The Bank strategy also includes building blocks of analytical work to support the
transition to a diversified market economy and the development of a social protection system. Analytical
work has been grouped into three clusters: economic reform and transition, public sector management,
and poverty and safety nets; and two sectors: health and education. A multi-sectoral institutional capacity
building program is ongoing.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
28.    The World Bank has already begun to focus on supporting the recovery of the health system in
Iraq. The first project - the Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP) financed through the ITF -
aims to improve access to quality emergency services in selected health facilities to serve the urgent needs
of the Iraqi population. This objective is being carried out through rehabilitation and equipping of
selected emergency services units throughout the country, provision of emergency pharmaceuticals to
these units, and strengthening of the planning and management capacity of the central and provincial
health administrations.
29.    The MOH approached the Bank in October 2004 concerning support to PWD resulting from the
war and related accidents. This is an area which has obvious and direct links to the recent conflict and
which can unambiguously be considered as an urgent priority for the Government, especially considering
the continuous increase in the number of victims as a result of the. current instability and violence.
Improving the rehabilitation of the physically disabled can have an immediate and visible impact. The
rehabilitation will, in particular, include disabled ex-combatants who are unlikely to be reintegrated into a
community if they do not acquire some physical capabilities making it possible for them to re-enter the
workforce. This area has not yet been specifically addressed by the donor community, and the
Government has recently signaled that this is an urgent priority. The proposed project is consistent with
the objectives of the Bank's Human Development Strategy for Iraq, including helping to stem the
deterioration of health services, in terms of infrastructure, human resources, and management, and builds
logically on the support being provided through the EHRP to restore key services to the most vulnerable
in the society. It is also in line with the World Bank Middle East and North Africa Department's current
7



efforts to develop a strategy to support disabled people as a group disproportionately represented among
the world's poorest.3
30.    The Bank has extensive global experience in supporting these types of interventions in post-
conflict and emergency contexts. The Bank's priority is not only to provide immediate assistance in areas
of particular need, but also to ensure that sector development takes place through establishment of a
sound policy framework that will provide the basis for sustainability and for further reform measures. In
addition, decision-makers in Iraq will have the benefit of the Bank's understanding of global good
practices in supporting equity, quality, access and accountability in health system reform.
31.    Lessons from Post-Conflict Experience. Based on the World Bank's experience with the ongoing
EHRP and recent experiences both in Iraq and in post-conflict countries such as Afghanistan, East Timor,
Bosnia, Algeria, Sierra Leone and Kosovo, a number of important lessons have been learned and
introduced into the design of the proposed project. Below are key lessons learned:
*  For emergency recovery projects, a simple project design that can be quickly and visibly
implemented is most effective.
*  Close guidance and support to the counterparts implementing the project is essential, given
the lack of familiarity with international practices and low level of implementation capacity.
*  The project should be part of a programmatic framework based on a needs assessment of the
sector and close collaboration with other key donors.
*  Support to emergency priorities should be coupled with capacity building for the
implementing institutions and entities in order to improve their ability to implement current
and consecutive programs.
*  In contexts where direct Bank supervision is not possible, adequate training should be
provided to local representatives to carry out oversight of the project activities.
*  In post-conflict situations where there are numerous donor agencies involved, support should
be provided to the MOH in establishing an effective coordinating mechanism. This support
could be in the form of technical assistance and training in setting up the mechanism within
the framework of the project, as well as through "informal" technical advice from the Bank
team itself to the relevant MOH counterparts. In addition, the Bank needs to maintain good
and frequent collaboration with development partners.
C.     DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
32.    The overall objective of the Project is to support the delivery of improved rehabilitation and
prosthetic services that reduce the burden of physical disability. Specifically, the Project will: (i) support
the development of a national policy on disabilities; (ii) increase the capacity of Iraqi institutions and
other stakeholders to meet the needs of disabled persons; (iii) strengthen the partnerships between the
Government and civil society in provision of services to disabled persons; and (iv) upgrade the
infrastructure and equipment of selected rehabilitation and prosthetic centers throughout Iraq.
Project Description
33.    There will be three project components, namely: (i) Policy Development and Partnerships; (ii)
Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons; and (iii) Project Management.
3"A Note on Disability Issues in MENA Region", MNSHD working paper, April 2005.
8



Component 1: Policy Development and Partnerships (US$0.8 million total, including contingencies)
34.    The objectives of this component are to: (i) develop a comprehensive policy and legislative
framework for disabilities; and (ii) initiate an enabling environment for development of partnerships
between the MOH, other ministries, and civil society in the area of disabilities.
35.    Policy Development. The Project will support the establishment of a multi-sectoral Disability
Working Group (DWG) as a first step in the policy development process. Technical assistance will be
provided under the Project to assist in organizing the DWG and preparing its work program. The
technical assistance will also support the preparation of a draft national policy framework on disabilities,
to be presented to the Prime Minister's Office and the National Assembly for review and adoption.
36.    This policy framework will encompass the medical aspects of the rehabilitation process, and will
take into account the following aspects of disability in Iraq: prevalence and main causes of disability,
economic and social consequences of disabilities, prevention and risk mitigation mechanisms, and
policies and strategies to create the enabling environment which permits PWD full participation in
society, including access to education and the labor force, and participation in decision making. It will
take stock of current knowledge of disability issues in the country, and open the door to new ideas and
initiatives that will help mainstream disability as a theme across sectors.
37.    Partnerships. The Project will support data collection and assessment of existing NGOs in the
area of disabilities in Iraq, as a basis for understanding what kinds of services the NGOs are currently
providing throughout the country. To begin building partnerships between NGOs and Government, the
Project will also finance a series of conferences/workshops for NGOs and Government officials at an
early stage of project implementation. These meetings will provide a forum for exchanging information
on ongoing strategies and activities for disabled people, and identifying areas of potential cooperation.
The workshops will also be an opportunity to learn more about the current capabilities and resources of
the NGOs operating in the field. The Project will also support a public awareness campaign to sensitize
the public about the needs of disabled people.
38.   In addition, the Project will provide support, on a limited pilot basis (not to exceed US$50,000 in
total), to the MOH to contract NGOs for provision of a selected number of specific services, e.g., assisting
with registration of disabled persons, distribution of wheelchairs, and community-based surveys.
Component 2: Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons (US$18.0 million total, including contingencies)
39.    The objective of this component is to improve the delivery of community-oriented rehabilitation
and prosthetic services for disabled persons in selected sites throughout the country. The approach is in
line with international best practice and with WHO recommendations for the development of community-
oriented services for the disabled, and represents a change in direction from the current unsustainable and
discriminatory practice in Iraq where rehabilitation, isolation in specialized institutions and primary
health care services are provided in large institutions, separate from services for the general population.
The new approach promotes provision of services in the community, increasing access and efficiency as
well as promoting an inclusive environment. If positive results are achieved during this Project, the next
phase would include establishment of a network of additional small community-oriented rehabilitation
centers, and further strengthening of the production workshops.
40.    The Project will support the construction of six new basic rehabilitation centers, and three new
rehabilitation centers with prosthetic workshops. In addition, five existing rehabilitation centers will be
renovated. Another four existing rehabilitation centers are in satisfactory condition and therefore will
benefit only from training and limited equipment, while the others will receive support in civil works
renovation, equipment and training. A table showing the details by rehabilitation center/workshop is in
Annex 8A.
9



41.    The Project will support procurement of specialized equipment and materials for prosthetic
workshops, equipment for rehabilitation centers, computer workstations for management and registration
of beneficiaries, and office equipment and furniture for the selected locations. The Project will also
support procurement of medical aids, such as wheelchairs and walking aids. A table indicating the
comprehensive list of these goods is in Annex 8B.
42.    The Project will support training activities to improve the services for physical rehabilitation,
including: (i) specialized training for production and fitting of prostheses; (ii) training for
physiotherapists; (iii) management training for workshop and rehabilitation center managers; and (iv)
specialized training in physical therapy for hospital-based physicians. Training for technicians in the
prosthetics workshops will be linked to the procurement of equipment, and any tenders for equipment
would include the relevant training. Training of trainers for staff in existing facilities will be organized in
appropriate centers in neighboring countries. In addition, the Project will support the training of new
physiotherapists to be employed in the new centers.
Component 3: Project Management (US$0.7 million total, including contingencies)
43.    The objective of this component is to ensure effective administration and coordination of the
project activities. Overall project coordination will be carried out by a Project Management Team (PMT)
in the MOH. The lead implementing agency for the Project will be the MOH. Responsibility for
implementation of the components will rest with the relevant departments of the MOH and other agencies
involved in the project. The PMT will build on the capacities already established under the ongoing
Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP), sharing a Director and the "business office" functions,
e.g., procurement, financial, and secretarial/logistical. One PMT Director will be responsible for both
EHRP and EDP. Likewise, the Technical Coordinator will be shared by the two projects and will report
directly to the PMT Director. Terms of Reference for this position will include day-to-day management
of the Project. An Assistant Technical Coordinator will be selected solely for the EDP, and this
individual's responsibilities will involve supporting the Technical Coordinator and monitoring and
evaluation of the Project. Procurement, financial management and administrative staff of the PMT will
be increased to absorb the additional work of the EDP. The DWG will play an advisory role on policy
issues relating to the Project.
44.    The Project will finance: (i) adequate office equipment and supplies, and one project vehicle; (ii)
technical assistance and training for PMT staff in project management, procurement and financial
management; (iii) annual external audits of the project; and (iv) operating costs for the PMT, including
vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, communications costs, banking fees, transportation
costs, meeting expenses, advertisement fees, representation, and office security arrangements.
D.     INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
45.    This section describes in detail the implementation of the EDP, which will provide urgent support
in the areas described above.
Implementation Arrangements
46.    This Project is the second in the health sector to be financed from the ITF. The Ministry of
Planning and Development Cooperation (MOPDC) is the Government's designated donor coordination
agency for Iraq's reconstruction program. The MOH will be the implementing agency for the Project.
10



47.    The PMT in the MOH, which is also the implementing agency for the EHRP, will be expanded to
coordinate and manage the EDP. The PMT will have the responsibility for the day-to-day management,
coordination and monitoring of the Project activities. The management structure for the Project is
reflected in Annex 3.
48.    Specifically, the PMT will: (i) coordinate project implementation, and manage the resources of
the project; (ii) procure all Grant-financed goods and services under the Project; (iii) operate the financial
management system according to World Bank requirements; (iv) act as liaison between the technical
agencies involved in the Project and the World Bank; and (v) carry out, on an annual basis, an
independent audit of the project. Specifically, in its management capacity, the PMT will ensure that: (a)
the project activities are well-coordinated; (b) issues affecting or potentially affecting project
implementation are identified and addressed in a timely manner; (c) technical advice is provided to
relevant MOH staff in how to develop work plans, write terms of reference, and effectively manage
consultant services; (d) safeguard issues are addressed in compliance with the Environmental and Social
Assessment Framework (ESSAF); (e) necessary project inputs are provided in a timely and cost-effective
manner; (f) project resources are appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements for
procurement and financial management; (g) effective project monitoring and progress reporting are
carried out; (h) there is a systematic outreach to various stakeholders to promote project objectives; and
(i) provide secretarial services to facilitate the activities of the DWG.
49.    Since most of the project activities will take place in selected rehabilitation centers and
prosthetics workshops, the PMT and the MOH Directorates at the Governorate level will need to agree on
operational and administrative procedures prior to implementation. As ownership, participation and
commitment of the local health authorities are critical for the successful implementation of the project,
much attention will be given to this process. A detailed implementation plan for each of the components
is in Annex 9.
50.    All procurement for project activities will be carried out at the central MOH level, with
participation as needed from the MOH Directorate level.
Implementation of Component 1: Policy Development and Partnerships
51.    Policy Development. The PMT will initiate and be responsible for development of the policy
framework for disabilities, and will collaborate in this activity with the DWG. The PMT will be
responsible for providing administrative support to the DWG. Activities under this component include
technical assistance to develop the policy framework. As the MOH has only a partial role in developing
the overall disability policy, it was agreed that the DWG will comprise representatives from other relevant
ministries and Government agencies, including the Prime Minister's office and the National Assembly
and representatives of the disabled.
52.    Technical assistance will involve a senior Iraqi specialist who will lead the establishment of the
DWG for the MOH as well as the development of a policy framework. This specialist could work closely
with a senior international consultant with expertise in disabilities policy who would provide advisory
support. The DWG will also have the support of locally recruited consultants who will undertake surveys
and data collection as determined by the DWG. Once established, the DWG, as a first step, will prepare a
Mission Statement and a work plan.
53.    Partnerships. Implementation of the activities that aim to enhance partnerships with NGOs will
rest with the MOH. The MOH will carry out a data collection exercise to gather key information on
existing NGOs in the area of disabilities operating in Iraq, to be followed by an assessment of the status
and performance of these NGOs. The assessment will yield a classification of NGOs according to the
following categories: (i) those providing social support to the disabled; (ii) advocacy groups; (iii) those
delivering direct services to the disabled; (iv) those working on prevention, public education and
11



reintegration of the disabled into society; and (v) those working on monitoring the status of the disabled,
including registration.
54.    The MOH will organize a series of conferences and workshops with regional and local authorities
and NGOs at an early stage of project implementation. The key NGOs will be invited to participate in a
series of two-three hour coordination meetings with MOH staff, where NGOs will have the opportunity to
present their work and areas of interest. The MOH will designate staff to attend these workshops and to
serve as focal points for coordination of activities with NGOs. Through this process, the MOH will
identify areas of cooperation with NGOs and support capacity building of NGOs, possibly through
actively engaging larger experienced NGOs in training and support activities, and will provide limited
support to NGOs in implementing specific priority tasks, e.g., distribution of wheelchairs, support to
registration of the disabled; data collection and survey work.
55.    For the public awareness campaign, a public agency will be used or a suitable firm will be
contracted to: (i) develop a public information strategy, defining target audience, approach, and
implementation plan; and (ii) support the MOH in carrying out the activities included in the campaign.
Implementation of Component 2: Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons
56.    Responsibility for the implementation of this component will rest with the PMT in coordination
with the health authorities at the Governorate and Directorate levels. The MOH Directorate of Operations
and Specialized Medical Services will be responsible for overseeing the delivery and distribution of the
medical equipment, prostheses, orthoses and medical aids. The PMT will coordinate to ensure that the
activities are carried out according to the project implementation plan. To accelerate the start-up process
for civil works supported under this component, the MOH will make necessary preliminary assessments
while selected consulting firms will be hired prior to project effectiveness to prepare the design and
supervise construction works for the first group of project sites. These firms will be managed by the PMT
in cooperation with Governorate level engineers. In addition, a preliminary prototype for the workshops
is being prepared by the MOH with the help of consultants, and a list of inputs for completion of the
Terms of Reference for these firms is being finalized.
57.    The MOH has already prepared draft specification lists for procurement of medical equipment for
prosthetic workshops. Equally, draft specification lists are being prepared for equipment for rehabilitation
centers and for prostheses, orthoses, medical aids, and raw materials. The delivery of the equipment for
the workshops and physical rehabilitation sites will be carried out in coordination with the civil works
activities, to ensure that the delivery and installation take place at the appropriate point in the
rehabilitation process. Development of the distribution plan for the essential medical aids will be the
responsibility of the MOH in close collaboration with other stakeholders.
58.    The distribution plan that includes eligibility criteria for medical aids will be carefully prepared
and monitored to enable quick distribution of goods without administrative obstacles and with minimal
burden on the beneficiaries.  Development and implementation of a comprehensive distribution and
monitoring plan presents an opportunity for MOH to obtain information on beneficiaries, and to establish
close cooperation with other stakeholders in the process of distribution of medical aids to the disabled,
including local and international NGOs, clinics, hospitals, and other government agencies working in the
field.
59.    Activities in this component cover the capacity-building and training activities under the Project.
PMT will coordinate the training activities with the Directorate of Specialized Medical Services and will
ensure that the following training activities are conducted: (i) technical training for prosthetic technicians;
(ii) training for physiotherapists; (iii) management training for managers at all 18 sites; and (iv)
specialized training in physical therapy for hospital-based physicians.
12



60.   Training for technicians in the workshops will be packaged together with procurement of
specialized equipment for these workshops, and the training will be conducted in well-established
prosthetic centers. The schedule for the training will also be included in the bidding documents for the
equipment. Identification of participants for the training will be the responsibility of MOH in cooperation
with the Govemorates. The Project will support the travel arrangements and accommodations for this
specialized training, while it is expected that the tuition fees will be covered by other donors or through
direct arrangements made by the MOH.
61.    The MOH will prepare a detailed plan for training of physiotherapists in cooperation with the
Governorates. As is the case for technicians in the workshops, MOH is responsible for recruitment and
retaining of staff for the physical rehabilitation centers. In this respect, a detailed plan covering human
resources, staffing, and recurrent operational budget for the centers will be prepared early in the Project.
62.    Specification of furniture and IT equipment for registration and management purposes will be
completed after the design of the centers is finished.
Implementation of Component 3: Project Management
63.    The MOH will be responsible for ensuring that the PMT is expanded and staffed with sufficient
expertise and skills to carry out the implementation of the project. In addition, the MOH is responsible
for securing adequate office space within the Ministry for the PMT to accommodate the additional staff
that will be added to manage the EDP. The PMT will act as both the coordinating unit for technical
implementation of the components, and the "business office" for the Project. The PMT will also provide
secretarial support to the DWG.
64.    The PMT will comprise: (i) a Director who will be responsible for coordinating the day-to-day
activities of both EHRP and EDP, as well as the business office functions of project management, and
liaising with the World Bank and the MOH Departments implementing project components; (ii) a
Technical Coordinator who will ensure coordination of the technical aspects of both projects; (iii) an
Assistant Technical Coordinator who will support the Technical Coordinator and who will be dedicated to
the EDP, including project monitoring and evaluation; (iii) a Procurement Officer who will be
strengthened by the addition of three specialists (civil works, equipment/medical aids and safeguards);
(iv) a Financial Officer to be shared by both projects; (v) two accountants dedicated to the EDP; (vi) an
Office Manager; and (vii) an Administrative Secretary. Additional engineers may be hired to support the
Project, as needed. In addition, there will be a driver for the EDP project vehicle and a messenger.
65.    Experience with the EHRP and other health projects within the region has shown that clear
definition of implementation procedures, including PMT responsibilities and support to project activities,
is a very important element of a successful project. In order to achieve this objective, the MOH will
select well-qualified staff for the PMT, including a full-time Technical Coordinator to support the PMT
Director, to ensure that the appropriate oversight and management of the project activities are in place.
The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) is being prepared to provide guidance in project management
and financial and procurement guidelines and procedures. The PIM will be based on the recently
finalized and adopted Master Implementation Manual (MIM) that includes procurement and financial
management guidelines and procedures, as well as documents to be used for both ITF-financed projects.
It is recognized that the PIM is intended to provide guidance on project implementation and
administration to ensure clear understanding between the implementing agency and the Bank. The PIM
will be revised during project implementation with the mutual agreement of the Bank and MOH.
13



Procurement
66.    Annex 4 of the Technical Annex gives a detailed analysis of the Recipient's institutional capacity
to implement procurement, as well as the procurement plan and arrangements for the Project. The
procurement plan was agreed with the Recipient, paying particular attention to the initial procurement
activities. In order to expedite the initial activities, agreement was reached on the selection of a short list
of architectural and engineering (A/E) firms from the pre-qualified long list recently prepared for the
EHRP. These short-listed firms will be grouped by geographical location (by governorate and by region),
with two or more facilities in each package. The selected firms will be responsible for the design and
preparation of the bidding documents and construction supervision of the new rehabilitation centers (with
and without workshops) and the renovation and upgrading of existing rehabilitation centers. Terms of
Reference (TOR) for the selection of consultants for the initial services have been drafted and the
recruitment process is planned for completion within four months of Grant effectiveness. Consultants
will be selected based on the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) method. The first packages of civil works
contracts (Phase 1), estimated to cost, in the aggregate, about US$2.1 million, will be ready for tendering
within about five to six months after Grant effectiveness. Preparation of design and bidding documents
for the remaining civil works contracts will be completed in July-August 2006, and completion of such
contracts is scheduled for August-September 2007.
67.    Procurement of goods (rehabilitation and workshop equipment, medical aids and consumables
and other equipment) will be carried out in parallel with the works contracts in order to ensure that
installation and testing of the equipment is coordinated with completion of the civil works. Under Project
Component 1, Policy Development and Partnerships, NGOs will be contracted for the provision of
specific services such as distribution of medical aids to eligible beneficiaries and carrying out of
beneficiary surveys. NGOs will be selected in accordance with paragraph 3.16 of the Bank Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants. Workshops to inform the NGOs about the project and
how they can participate will be carried out before the short-listing and selection process. It should be
noted, however, that due to the security situation, there may be only a limited number of NGOs with
access to specific locations, in which case direct contracting or subcontracting of local NGOs may be the
only viable option.
Disbursement
68.    The proposed Grant of US$19.5 million is expected to be disbursed by Septemnber 30, 2007.
Annex 5, Table A describes the allocation of the grant proceeds according to each expenditure category.
69.    The Bank's strategy in Iraq is to ensure Iraqi ownership and strengthen institutional capacity by
financing operations that are implemented by Iraqi ministries and other recipient entities. Trained PMTs
will facilitate implementation and help ensure compliance with fiduciary and other safeguards. PMTs will
be employed and paid by the implementing agency at regular salary levels, thereby avoiding the
disadvantages of stand-alone Project Implementation Units, which can erode civil service institutional
capacity over the medium and long term. The Project will finance specialized technical support in
procurement, financial management and other areas, as needed. In addition, to ensure that project funds
are used for the purposes intended and to help carry out project supervision on the ground in Iraq, the
Bank has hired an independent firm as Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA).
70.    As a further compensating control, disbursements will be made primarily through direct payment
by the Bank to the contractors, consultants, and vendors. Once authorized by the MOH, direct payments
will be made by the World Bank directly into the account of the contractor, consultant, or vendor in a
commercial bank capable of receiving funds transferred from the international banking system.
14



71.    The project management component and payments below the threshold of US$10,000 normally
will be made through payments by the Recipient from its own resources. These payments made from the
Recipient's own resources will be reimbursed, on a periodic basis, by the Bank to the MOH upon
presentation of full supporting documents, proof of payment and a signed withdrawal application. The
Bank may later require the use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for payments below US$10,000. The
PMT and the main financial counterparts from the MOH will be subject to intensive training in Bank
disbursement procedures.
Financial Management
72.    The project financial resources are extended through the ITF and will be managed within the
framework of the MOH systems, regulations and controls. Presently, the MOH is also implementing the
EHRP. A financial management assessment was undertaken through meetings with representatives from
MOH and the EHRP PMT to update knowledge of the MOH financial management system and to
determine the arrangements to be adopted in order to enhance the existing controls and fulfill the
reporting requirements of the Project.
73.    Based on the result of the assessment and the outcome of the various reports issued by
independent auditors and other donors, the fiduciary risk of the Grant not being used for the intended
purposes, with due regard to economy, efficiency, and the sustainable achievement of the Project's
development, is considered as high. The financial management risk as an element of the fiduciary risk is
also high.
74.    The financial management arrangements of the Project are basically similar to those being
followed under the EHRP, taking into consideration the specific activities under the Project and the
hurdles being faced during the implementation of the EHRP. This financial management risk will be
partly managed through: (i) reinforcing the present controls as applied by the MOH; (ii) the engagement
of a dedicated financial officer and an accountant to manage the project financial activities; (iii) payments
to most contractors, consultants and vendors will be made through direct payment method, while
payments below the threshold of US$10,000 will be reimbursed to the ministry upon presentation of
supporting documentation and proof of payment; (iv) gathering and monitoring the generation of monthly
reports by the Directorates/centers on implementation activities; (v) maintaining a fixed assets
spreadsheet for purchased and delivered equipment; (vi) using a spreadsheet application to keep track of
the project accounts and to generate the project reports; (vii) having a FMA inside Iraq to monitor the
project activities and support the PMTs; (viii) the engagement of an independent auditor, with
international experience acceptable to the Bank, to perform the project audit and issue an independent
auditor's opinion; and (ix) documenting project arrangements in a chapter of the PIM based on the Master
Implementation Manual.
75.    Despite the above, the residual risks, where possible, will be managed during project
implementation through close monitoring and supervision by the Bank team's Financial Management
Specialist (FMS).
76.    The financial management-related risks and risk management tools are included in tabular form
in the detailed risk analysis (Section F). The project financial management arrangements and identified
risks are detailed in Annex 5.
15



Project Supervision
77.    Project activities will be completed by September 2007. Supervision, to be carried out by the
Bank's local consultants and the FMA, will include visits to the MOH, MOF, MOPDC, and MOLSA as
well as to the rehabilitation centers and prosthetic workshop sites for the purpose of reviewing
implementation progress, impact of project activities, and related documentation.
78.    The PMT will prepare and send to the Bank a quarterly progress report. The first report will be
due starting at the end of the first quarter following the initial disbursement. The format of the report was
agreed during appraisal.
79.    The Bank, as the ITF Administrator, will supervise ITF-funded operations in accordance with the
Bank's applicable policies and procedures. While staff travel to Iraq is restricted, supervision of recipient-
executed operations will be carried out through consultants and the FMA. Each ITF-funded operation is
required to include a results-based supervision plan that reflects realities on the ground.
80.    Reporting to Donors. The Bank will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of
the funds deposited by the donors with the Bank under the ITF. Within ninety (90) days of the end of each
quarter (March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31), the Bank will prepare, on a cash basis, an
un-audited statement of receipts, disbursements, and fund balance with respect to the ITF and forward a
copy to each donor. Each such statement will be expressed in United States Dollars, the currency in which
the ITF funds will be maintained by the Bank. In addition, within one hundred and eighty (180) days of
the completion of all disbursements relating to activities financed from the ITF, the Bank will prepare on
a cash basis an un-audited financial statement of receipts, disbursements, and fund balance with respect to
the ITF and forward a copy to each donor.
81.    The Bank will furnish the donors:
(a) on a semi-annual basis, a consolidated report describing the operations of the ITF (including
contributions, disbursements, and implementation progress) in the preceding six months; and
(b) on an annual basis, a management assertion, together with an attestation from the Bank's
external auditors, concerning the adequacy of internal control over cash-based financial
reporting for trust funds as a whole.
82.    The Bank will require a financial statement audit of the ITF to be performed by the Bank's
external auditors on an annual basis. The costs of such an audit, including the internal costs of the Bank
with respect to the audit, will be charged to the ITF. The Bank will provide each donor with a copy of the
auditor's report.
83.    The Bank will maintain close consultation and coordination with the donors. The Bank will
provide each donor to the ITF with semi-annual reports on its quarterly ex-post evaluation of the activities
undertaken by the FMA. Within six months of completion of the activities, or of full disbursement of the
contributions, whichever comes later, the Bank will provide a final progress report to each donor, together
with a copy of the independent review of the performance of the FMA. Upon request by any donor, the
Bank will send to such donor the draft and final reports received by the Bank from the FMA on the
activities financed by the contributions.
16



Environmental and Social Safeguards
84.    Environmental Safeguards: The Project is rated category "B". Impacts would be those associated
mainly with (i) new construction and renovation of Disability Rehabilitation Centers and Workshops
(e.g., safety, dust, noise, waste material, and vehicular traffic); (ii) provision of sanitary services, water
supply and waste management; and (iii) operation and maintenance of Disability Rehabilitation Centers
and Workshops. Because of the emergency conditions, the requirement to carry out a limited
Environmental Analysis as part of project preparation will be waived. However, for sub-projects with
possible moderate or minor adverse environmental impacts, a limited Environmental Analysis will be
carried out during project design for World Bank approval prior to execution of such works. The
Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was disclosed in the country
and in the Infoshop in November 2005. Based on the ESSAF, the following standards will be applied
during implementation: (i) inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice (ECOP) in the bid
documents for rehabilitation and extension works (Annex 7A); (ii) use of Safeguard Procedures for
Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts (Annex 7B); (iii) use of the Checklist of likely
Environmental and Social Impacts of Subprojects; (iv) review and oversight of any major reconstruction
works by specialists; (v) implementation of environmentally and socially sound options for civil works;
and (vi) provision for adequate budget and satisfactory institutional arrangements to monitor effective
implementation and adequately operate and maintain sanitary facilities after project completion. Capacity
building on Safeguards and on the implementation of the ESSAF has already been undertaken with the
Ministry of Environment and other line Ministries under the EHRP.
85.   Resettlement, and Land Acquisition: The Project will include both new construction and
renovation of rehabilitation centers and workshops in 18 sites on Government-owned land without
squatters. The building extensions will be carried out within existing govemment-owned plots of land
which are not occupied by squatters. Therefore, World Bank Operational Policy (OP 4.12) would not be
triggered since there would not be any involuntary relocation of populations or expropriation of privately
owned land. However, the ESSAF, specifically elaborated for due diligence of emergency projects in
Iraq, will be used to ensure that this is indeed the case and, should there be any need for expropriation of
privately owned land or/and involuntary relocation of population, the same guidelines would be followed.
Quarterly and annual implementation progress reports should include a section for reporting compliance
with World Bank safeguard policy.
E.     FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
86.    This Project is prepared as part of the interim strategy of the World Bank in addressing the
pressing needs of the sector and according to the emergency recovery assistance procedures (OP 8.50).
The lack of reliable statistics, the limited economic information, and the speed at which the project has
been prepared have prevented more detailed analysis, a familiar constraint in such operations. However,
the benefits of the Project's investment are expected to be substantial compared to its costs, as it addresses
urgent needs in an environment of devastated infrastructure, deteriorating quality, and escalating needs.
The Project will support the construction of six new basic rehabilitation centers, and three new
rehabilitation centers with prosthetic workshop. In addition, five existing rehabilitation centers will be
renovated. Another four existing rehabilitation centers are in satisfactory condition and therefore will
benefit only from training and limited equipment, while the others will receive support in civil works
renovation, equipment and training. These facilities are situated in 15 of Iraq's Governorates, and will
serve the needs of up to 250,000 PWD who would otherwise not have access to quality rehabilitation
services and would be denied the right to work and to lead a productive life.
87.   This Project will support expansion of the capacity of the rehabilitation centers to provide for the
needs of the disabled, and the prosthetic workshops to provide the prosthetic and orthotic devices needed
by those individuals who have suffered loss of limbs. The technical capacity of these centers to handle
the needs of the disabled will be improved through technical assistance and training to be provided under
17



the Project. In addition, a total of approximately 1.4 million Iraqis, representing the families of the
disabled, will be direct beneficiaries of the Project. It is well-known that the disabled who receive
appropriate care and medical aids are less dependent, are once again in a position to contribute to the
family income, experience a reduction of social stigma, and are able to resume schooling and other
available opportunities, and have the chance once again to become productive members of society. This
Project will support expansion of the capacity of the rehabilitation centers to provide for the needs of the
disabled, and the prosthetic workshops to provide the prosthetic and orthotic devices required by those
disabled without limbs. The technical and management capacity of the system to handle the needs of the
disabled will be improved through technical assistance and training to be provided under the Project. By
supporting the NGOs, the Project will establish partnerships between the Government and the
communities, and stimulate private entrepreneurship in the area of disabilities. Recurrent costs of the
facilities renovated and constructed under the Project will be met from the MOH operational budget.
Future maintenance costs of these facilities will be covered by the overall MOH budget and do not
constitute a sustainability problem.
F.     RISKS
88.    The Project will be implemented in a high-risk environment. Iraq's security environment is
unstable, and the country is undergoing a major political transition. The table below provides a summary
of the key project risks that have been identified, and the measures to be taken to mitigate those risks.
Risk Analysis
Risk                   Rating            Mitigation Measures
From Outputs to Objectives
Transition from Iraq Transitional Government    Keeping project simple and focused on well-
to new Iraq government after December 2005  S   defined priorities. Working closely with
elections. Unknown outcomes that could          Ministry officials to ensure ownership and
affect project implementation.                  continuity.
Administration changes in MOH -                 Building relationships at the technical level
jeopardizing current commitment to project  M    with current officials to ensure continuity in
design and inputs.                              the event of changes.
Multiple efforts and parallel tracking by the   Current multi-agency group, chaired by the
various agencies and bilateral donors causing   MOH, seeks to harmonize efforts and
fragmented reform efforts.                M     responsibilities. Also, the Iraqi Strategic
Review Board (ISRB) and its required
approval before project financing will ensure
minimal overlap.
From Components to Outputs
Collection of comprehensive information on      Working with MOH to identify the major
the status/condition of facilities to enable    project sites by Governorate and on the basis
planning and priority setting may not be   N    of agreed criteria. The MOH has already
collectable within the time constraints of the  identified the sites.
Project.
Rise in insurgency and acts of terrorism could  Adopt procedures of confidentiality, low
impact on local consultants and contractors.  H  visibility, and avoid unwarranted publicity in
the press.
Security conditions deteriorate, making access  Use of local contractors and local staff for
by contractors to sites and supervision    H     supervision, plus carefully crafted monitoring
difficult.                                      arrangements by governorate/directorate
assigned staff.
18



Financial management--inability to comply       The current disbursement process of direct
with Bank requirements due to systemic          WB payments for large contracts will be
problems in banking and accounting practices.   adopted. Early consultation will be sought
M     from Financial Management consultants to
design a simple system that meets project
needs and the Bank's financial management
requirements.
The Bank's inability to carry out in-country    Use of local consultants, two of whom are
supervision.                                    already familiar with Bank procedures, to
S     assist in supervision. Also, use of Fiduciary
Monitoring Agents to monitor and do site
visits.
Failure of government to meet the incremental   The capacity building component of the
operating and maintenance costs of the          Project will provide support to the MOH in
investments under the Project.                  health services management budgeting and
S     planning. This will include development of
monitoring tools to track maintenance of
health services facilities and equipment.
Difficulties in establishing a functioning      The capacity building component of the
Disabilities Working Group (DWG) and            Project will provide technical assistance to
subsequent national strategy on disabilities.  H  support establishment and on-going
operations of the DWG, including preparation
of a national strategy on disabilities.
Procurement Risks
A decree was issued by the Minister of Health
The lack of adequate laws and regulations, of   rectifying shortcomings in the current
moder standard documentation, and               procurement practice at the MOH. Periodic
persistence of habits acquired by procurement  H  training is being provided by the Bank in
staff in the previous era may take time to      Amman, and consultancy funding for
change.                                         procurement is included in the project design.
Close supervision by Bank staff, including
Bank hired procurement consultant based in
Lack of experience of procurement staff in      Baghdad. Periodic training will be provided
procurement planning and unfamiliarity with  H  to the procurement staff. Capacity building
Bankprocurement planningli and unfamiliarity wworkshops given by international consultants
Bank procurement guidelines and sound
international procurement practice.             are planned outside Iraq until conditions
permit international experts to work in
relative security within Iraq.
Post reviews and other procurement matters
Inability of Bank procurement staff to    H     will be covered in the first instance by the
supervise the project in the field.             local procurement consultant working for the
Bank and the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent.
Use of Bank local consultants to oversee the
Construction delays due to volatile security    project activities and to assist the PMT in
conditions in Iraq.                       H     managing unforeseen delays. Contract will
include provisions to manage such
contingencies.
High demand of local construction industry      Provision has been made in the Project budget
may result in shortage of materials and labor   for price and physical contingencies and
causing delays and high inflation in      H     contracts would include price adjustment
construction prices and contractors might be    clauses.
unwilling to honor their bid prices.
19



Periodic training will be provided by Bank
Contractors lack experience of Bank              staff and consultants in Amman. A pre bid
procurement procedures.                    M     meeting will be planned before bidders submit
bids and MOH will stress the requirement for
responsive bids in this meeting.
Use of local contractors and local staff and
consulting firms for supervision, plus
Security condition deteriorate, makingaccmonitoring arrangements by MOH directorate
Securty conditions detteroate, makin a           staff. A clause in the bidding document will
difficult.               r                       be introduced requesting bidders to provide a
methodology for accessing the site and
conducting work in the rehabilitation and
workshops centers.
Financial Management Risks
Initial
Risk                    Risk
Rating
Country Level
Limited direct knowledge of the Bank about       Use of MOH controls strengthened by the
the Iraqi government financial systems,          PMT verification, parallel accounting system,
controls, and procedures.                        mainly the Direct payment method, hiring of
H     external auditors, acceptable to the Bank, with
international experience, engaging a
Monitoring Agent inside Iraq, and
documenting all needed procedures in a PIM
based on the MIM.
Limited knowledge about the Bank's policies      Regular communication between the Bank
and guidelines by the Iraqi authorities leading  M  and the PMT and frequent training.
to non-compliance.
Project Level
Limited capacity to meet financial               Engaging a dedicated qualified FO and an
management requirements of the project at        accountant to maintain the financial
MOH, directorates and centers.             H     management function that records
commitments, processes payments, maintains
project accounts and generates reports.
The security conditions which do not allow       Requiring both the Fiduciary Monitoring
timely visits by the Bank project team to        Agent and the external auditor to do periodical
perform physical inspections on the        H     physical inspection for sites under
rehabilitation centers and prosthetic workshop   rehabilitation, each within his TOR.
sites.
The lack of a fixed assets management system     Having the PMT maintain a fixed assets
at MOH.                                    H     spreadsheet for purchased and delivered
equipment.
Delays in issuing authorizations for payments    Arranging for streamlined arrangements for
leading to overdue contractors' payments and  H  processing of contract approvals and payment
thus undermining competitiveness and leading     authorizations.
to higher costs.
The banking payment system shortfalls, where     The Bank issuing payment advices and giving
payments may be delayed or lost.           M     PMT access to ClientConnection to monitor in
a timely way the payment date and investigate
any significant delays.
20



Possible low level of coordination and            Having clear responsibilities and reporting
insufficient reporting arrangements between       arrangements among all parties involved and
the PMT, the directorates and the centers         addressing any problem immediately.
leading to different results and discrepancies  M
between reporting on physical progress and
related expenditures.
Not being able to maintain a project account      PMT submitting formal request to MOF and
for payment of small amount (less than            ensuring account guaranteed throughout the
US$10,000) throughout the life of the project  H  project life.
leading to shortages and delays in payments
and reimbursements.
Overall FM Risk                            H
Overall risk                               H
H = High Risk; S = Substantial Risk; M = Modest Risk: N = Low or Negligible Risk
21



ANNEX 1: RESULT FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
Component                                          Key Performance Indicators                                       Source/Resp Part)
Outputs                                       Outcomes
1. Policy Development   Policy Development                                      Policy Development                  *   Progress reports (PMT)
and Partnerships        Disabilities Working Group (DWG) established and mission  Policy framework for the disabled
statement and work plan prepared.                       developed and adopted by the
Policy framework for disabilities prepared.             Government.
Partnerships                                            Partnerships
Conferences and workshops held for Government officials and  At least 3 NGOs have an official
NGOs.                                                    agreement with the Government to
NGOs providing services on a pilot basis to the disabled.  deliver services to disabled and their
families.
2. Delivery of Services to  6 new basic rehabilitation centers constructed.     Number of disabled who received      .  Procurement reports
the Disabled            3 new rehabilitation centers with prosthetic workshop   prosthetic devices or other specialized  .  Field visits (PMT)
constructed                                              equipment from the rehabilitated    *  Progress reports (PMT)
5 existing rehabilitation centers renovated.            facilities.
Number of staff trained in the area of physical rehabilitation.
Number of staff trained in the area of production and fitting of
prostheses and orthoses.
3. Project Management   Project management team trained to prepare, monitor and  The MOH is capable of managing,     . PMT reports
and Monitoring and      manage project activities.                              supervising and monitoring the project.
Evaluation
22



ANNEX 2: SUMMARY COST TABLES
(US$ million)
Project Cost Summary
Cost                  Trust
Including      % of     Fund         %
Contingencies    Total   Financing  Financing
1. Component 1. Policy Development                      0.75      3.9       0.75       100.0
2. Component 2. Service Delivery                       18.04     92.5       18.04      100.0
3. Component 3. Support to Project Management           0.71      3.6       0.71       100.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       19.50    100.0      19.50      100.0
Components by Financiers
The Government    Trust Fund       Total       For.
Amount    %    Amount    %     Amount    %     Exch.
1. Component 1. Policy Development           -       -    0.75   100.0   0.75     3.9      -
2. Component 2. Service Delivery             -       -   18.04   100.0  18.04    92.5   13.25
3. Component 3. Support to Project Management  -     -    0.71   100.0   0.71     3.6    0.23
Total PROJECT COSTS                             -      -    19.50  100.0   19.50  100.0   13.48
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
The Government     Trust Fund         Total        For.
Amount     %     Amount    %     Amount     %      Exch.
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                           -        -    4.79    100.0    4.79    24.5    1.76
B. Goods
Workshop Equipment                     -        -    1.29    100.0    1.29     6.6    1.29
Rehab Equipment                        -        -    1.54   100.0     1.54     7.9    1.54
Prosthesis Materials                   -        -    2.78   100.0     2.78    14.2    2.78
Orthosis Materials                     -        -    0.93    100.0    0.93     4.7    0.93
Medical Aids                           -        -    4.62    100.0    4.62    23.7    4.62
Computers & Peripherals                -        -    0.10    100.0    0.10     0.5    0.10
Vehicles                               -        -    0.03    100.0    0.03     0.1    0.03
Furniture                              -        -    0.15    100.0    0.15     0.8    0.15
Subtotal                                 -        -   11.45    100.0   11.45    58.7   11.45
C. Training                              -        -    1.09    100.0    1.09     5.6    0.09
D. Consultants' Services
1. Firms
Design & Supervision Consultants     -        -    0.85    100.0    0.85     4.4       -
Procurement Support                  -        -    0.20    100.0    0.20     1.0    0.18
Other TA                              -       -    0.51    100.0    0.51     2.6       -
Subtotal                               -        -    1.57    100.0    1.57     8.0    0.18
2. Individual Consultants              -        -    0.50    100.0    0.50     2.5       -
Subtotal                                 -        -    2.06    100.0    2.06    10.6    0.18
E. Operating Costs                       -        -   .0.11    100.0    0.11     0.6       -
Total PROJECT COSTS                         -       -    19.50   100.0   19.50    100.0   13.48
23



Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$ million)
Component     Component
Component         2.        3. Support
1. Policy     Service      to Project
Development     Delivery    Management     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                 -          4.79             -    4.79
B. Goods
Workshop Equipment                           -          1.29             -     1.29
Rehab Equipment                              -          1.54             -    1.54
Prosthesis Materials                         -          2.78             -    2.78
Orthosis Materials                           -          0.93             -    0.93
Medical Aids                                 -          4.62             -    4.62
Computers & Peripherals                      -          0.09          0.01    0.10
Vehicles                                     -             -          0.03    0.03
Furniture                                    -          0.15             -    0.15
Subtotal                                       -         11.41          0.04    11.45
C. Training                                    -          0.99          0.09     1.09
D. Consultants' Services
1. Firms
Design & Supervision Consultants           -          0.85             -    0.85
Procurement Support                        -             -          0.20    0.20
Other TA                                0.45             -          0.06    0.51
Subtotal                                  0.45          0.85          0.26     1.57
2. Individual Consultants                 0.30             -          0.20    0.50
Subtotal                                    0.75          0.85          0.46    2.06
E. Operating Costs                             -             -          0.11    0.11
Total PROJECT COSTS                            0.75         18.04         0.71    19.50
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                               -         13.25          0.23   13.48
24



Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
International   National              Consulting
Competitive   Competitive  Consulting  Services:
Bidding       Bidding    Services      LCS     Shopping    Other    N.B.F.   Total
A. Civil Works                           -         4.79                                                          4.79
(4.79)                                                       (4.79)
B. Goods
1. Workshop Equipment               1.29            -          -           -         -        -        -       1.29
(1.29)                                                                    (1.29)
2. Rehab Equipment                   1.54           -           -          -         -        -        -       1.54
(1.54)                                                                    (1.54)
3. Prosthesis Materials             2.78            -           -          -         -        -        -       2.78
(2.78)                                                                    (2.78)
4. Orthosis Materials               0.93            -           -          -         -         -       -       0.93
(0.93)                                                                    (0.93)
5. Medical Aids                     4.62            -           -          -         -        -        -       4.62
(4.62)                                                                    (4.62)
6. Computers & Peripherals             -            -           -          -      0.10         -       -       0.10
(0.10)                      (0.10)
7. Vehicles                                         -           -          -      0.03         -       -       0.03
(0.03)                      (0.03)
8. Fumiture                            -         0.15           -          -         -         -       -       0.15
(0.15)                                                       (0.15)
C. Training                                           -           -          -         -      1.21       -       1.21
(1.21)             (1.21)
D. Consultants' Services
1. Firms
Design & Supervision                 -            -           -       0.85         -        -        -       0.85
(0.85)                                 (0.85)
Procurement Support                               -           -       0.08         -        -        -       0.08
(0.08)                                (0.08)
Other TA                             -            -           -       0.51         -         -       -       0.51
(0.51)                                 (0.51)
2. Individual Consultants /a           -            -        0.50          -         -         -       -       0.50
(0.50)                                            (0.50)
E. Operating Costs/b                     -            -           -          -         -     0.11        -       0.11
(0.11)             (0.11)
Total                                 11.16        4.94        0.50        1.45     0.13      1.32       -      19.50
(11.16)      (4.94)      (0.50)      (1.45)   (0.13)    (1.32)            (19.50)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by Trust Fund
\a To assist in the preparation of equipment lists & specifications, bid evaluations, financial management, etc.
\b For Project Management
25



ANNEX 3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A.     Project Management Structure
Minister of Health
. .. . . .. ..  ........                      I 
Disabilities Working Group  ...        PMT Director         ---       MOH Internal Auditor
(DWG)
Assistant Technical
Coordinator                   Technical Coordinator
Procurement Officer                Finance Officer                Office Manager
ArchitectslEngineers           tAccountants (2)                dministrative
j        2)Acoutats(2)                                          Secretary
4   Engiiieers (2)                                   |        Driver
Ir (2)Messenger
Key:
EquipmenVMedical Aids                     MOH Assigned Staff
Specialist                          Contracted Staff
Safeguards Specialis_                     MOH Assigned Staff also working on EHRP
_ Safeguards Specialist*
_           Contracted Staff also working on EHRP
26



B. Responsibility Matrix
Nit.  A As,041                                               , -I
,-   ,                               .  w  L   L   ,,,, .r-  i
E..s   h. w  r
1.00  Financial Management
1.01  Make available funds from own resources              E   N             N  N
1.02  Launch Workshop                                   N  N   S             E  E
1.03  Document Accounting, Reporting & Auditing         N  N   E             S  R
Procedures
1.04  Appoint Project Auditor (external)                N  E   R             S  R
1.05  Appoint Consultants 4/                                   E             S  R
1.06  Remit Specimen of signatures                      N  E   N             N  N
1.07  Request for reimbursement of own funds from the WB  N  N  E            S  R
1.08  Prepare requests for direct payments              N  R   E             S  R
1.09  Review claims and authorize payments                 N   N                E
1.10  Make payments within 10 days of payment              N   N                E
authorization
1.11  Monitor payments for timeliness                          E                N
1.12  Keep project accounts                                S   E             S
1.13  Prepare monthly and quarterly Financial Reports   N      E  S          S  N
1.14  Supervise FM aspects                              N  N   N             S  E
2.00  Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation
2.01  Establish project preparation, implementation, technical  N  E  S      S  R
monitoring (supervision) & reporting procedures at
center and at the Directorate level
2.02  Review PMT procurement procedures                     S  N  N      S   E  N
2.03  Conduct Annual audits                             R   R  S   S     E      R
2.04  Review implementation progress                        E  N  N          S  N
2.05  Review Technical Documentation and Contracts         N   S   S         S  E
2.06  Compare Project Estimates with Actual Prices         N   E   S     N   S
2.07  Recommend improvements to quality of construction     N  E  N             N
2.08  Follow up on environmental mitigation measures        S  E   S  S         N
2.09  Review timeliness of implementation                   E  S   S  N         N
2.10  Conduct site visits to assess progress of work and       E   S         S
quality
2.11  Prepare Quarterly Progress Reports for the MOH and  N  N  E  S            R
the World Bank
Financial Management consultants
27



No.   Activilirs
fr C,  C rS -    n I 
3.00  Procurement
3.01  Prepare and revise Procurement Plan in consultation  A  E   S         S  A
with each Directorate/Govemorate
3.02  Select Consultants 5/                            N   R  E  S             R
3.03  Establish a procurement monitoring system at the MOH  R  E            S  R
3.04  Prepare simplified bidding documents for shopping    R  E  S          S  R
procedures for smaller contracts
3.05  Prepare and revise a project implementation manual   R  E  S   S  S   S  R
3.06  Prepare Standard Bidding Documents for Works and     R  E  S          S  R
Goods
3.07  Prepare specific contract documents for each center  N  E  S          S  R
package/lot.
3.08  Invite bids/quotes                                   N  S   ?     N   N
3.09  Evaluate bids                                           E   ?         S  R
R
3.10  Obtain WB No objection if required                   N  E                N
3.11  Award and sign contracts                         N   N  E  N      N   S
3.12  Monitor progress of works under construction         S  E   S  S  S   S
3.13  Conduct physical inspection of completed hospitals      E   S         S
3.14  Coordinate procurement training of MOH and PMT   N   N  E             S  N
staff
3.15  Conduct training on procurement to Iraqi staff   N   N  N  N          S  E
3.16  Keep records on procurement for all projects.           E   S
Directorate will keep a copy of its project.
3.17  Follow up on complaints                              N  E   S            N
3.18  Conduct post review                                                   E  S
Key:
R=Review/Clear E=Execute     S=Support   A=Approve   N=Notified
Legend:
MOF: Ministry of Finance; MOH: Ministry of Health; MOH-PMT: Project Management Team (in
MOH); DIR: Directorate of Health at Governorate level; Center: Rehabilitation Center; AUD:
Financial Auditor; FMA: Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (in the case of civil works, FMA includes the
private consultants hired to prepare construction documents and provide design & supervision services);
WB: World Bank (Administrator of the Trust Fund)
5 Consultants hired to prepare design, construction documents and administration of the contract and supervision of
the works during construction.
28



ANNEX 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT PLAN
I.     General
1.    Project information:
Country:                           Republic of Iraq
Recipient:                         Ministry of Health
Project Name:                      Emergency Disabilities Project
Project No.:                       P096774
Trust Fund Grant Amount:           US$19.5 million
Project Implementing Agency (PIA):  The Ministry of Health
2.     Bank's approval Date of the Procurement Plan: November 17, 2005
3.     Date of General Procurement Notice: December 12, 2005
4.     Period covered by this procurement plan: Two years
II.    Goods and Works and Non-Consulting Services
1.    Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as stated in
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement:
Procurement Method          Prior Review Threshold            Comments
1.   Shopping (Goods and Works)  First three purchase orders/contracts
2.   NCB (Goods)                First three contracts >=US$ 100,000
3.   NCB (works)                All >=US$200,000               Could be revised during
project implementation
4    Direct Contracting/Purchase  All
5    ICB (Goods/works)          All
2.     Reference to Project Implementation Manual
The Project Management Team (PMT) will prepare a simple Project Implementation Manual (PIM) by
March 2006. The PIM will be based on the MIM which was prepared by an intemational consulting firm
financed under the Capacity Building Trust Fund for Iraq.
3.     Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule
It is not expected at this time that intemational construction contractors will be interested in the works
contracts under this project, especially given the current security situation in Iraq and the relatively small
size contracts, which will be scattered over 15 Govemorates. Therefore, all civil works contracts will be
procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. However, if the security conditions
improve during project implementation, the PMT would consider packaging smaller contracts into larger
contracts suitable for Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) that may attract intemational companies.
Procurement of goods will be primarily through ICB, and it will consist primarily of supply and
installation of equipment for physical disability rehabilitation centers and equipment for prosthesis
workshops, medical aids, consumables, fumiture and office equipment and vehicles. There is no domestic
preference under the Project. A detailed procurement plan is attached at the end of this annex.
29



III.   Selection of Consultants
1.     Selection
Due to the emergency nature of the Project, advance procurement will be used for the contracting of
Architectural/Engineering (A/E) consultants for the design and supervision of construction of physical
rehabilitation centers and workshops located in about fifteen Governorates. About six design/supervision
contracts, each estimated to cost about US$200,000 equivalent, are anticipated. Selection of these
consulting firms will be based on the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) method. For each of the six groups, a
short-list consisting of at least three firms will be prepared based on a long-list of qualified firms, which
were developed under the EHRP. Due to the security situation in Iraq, it is not expected that these
design/supervision contracts would be of interest to foreign consultants. However, there will be an
advertisement in the UJNDB and dgMarket for expression of interest for contracts estimated at
US$200,000 or more. NGOs would be needed for the distribution of medical aids to eligible beneficiaries
and possibly to undertake other project related activities at the community level. NGOs would be selected
in accordance with the provisions in paragraph 3.16 of the Bank Guidelines for the Selection of
Consultants and Employment of Consultants. NGOs would be identified, for the preparation of short lists,
after holding project-briefing workshops. The criteria for the selection of NGOs would be determined
after holding these workshops to better understand how these organizations are established and organized,
and the specific conditions under which they can operate. Due to the security situation, there may be cases
where direct contracting or subcontracting of NGOs may be the only viable option.
2.     Prior Review Threshold
Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as stated in Appendix I to the Guidelines
Selection and Employment of Consultants:
Selection Method          Prior Review Threshold         Comments
1. Competitive Methods (Firms)  First three contracts
>=US$100,000
2. Single Source (Firms)         All
3. Individual Consultants        All >=US$50,000
4. Single Source (individual)    All
3.     Short list comprised entirely of national consultant
Based on the response for expression of interest to be advertised in UNDB and dgMarket, a short list of
consultants for services may be comprised entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.     Any Other Special Selection Arrangements
The PMT is considering the employment of individual consultants with experience in Bank procurement,
and technical experts with experience in physical disability and workshop equipment, as well as
environmental and social safeguards to assist the PMT in the implementation of the project. It is expected
that international consulting firms and individuals may not be interested in providing consultancy services
within the country while the security situation is as volatile as is the case now in Iraq. However, should
the security conditions improve and international consultants show interest, the participation of
international consultants would be assessed by the PMT and the Bank team for their inclusion. It is also
expected that consulting offices associated with local universities may be included in the short lists.
University-based consultants shall not have preference over private consultants.
30



5.     Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule
These are indicated in the procurement plan below.
IV.    Implementing Agency Capacity Building Activities with Time Schedule
The agreed Capacity Building Activities are listed with time schedule
Expected outcome /              Estimated  Estimated   Start Date   Comments
Activity Description            Cost (US$) Duration
Training on procurement, setting up  200,000  20 months  January    Local/regional
a procurement monitoring system at                     2006 to      consulting firm
the ministry of health, support the                    September    and/or
PMT in bidding document                                2007        individuals,
preparation, technical                                              and training
specifications, evaluation of bids
and consultants' proposals,
inspection of goods and spot
physical inspection, and contract
management and reporting.
31



Initial Procurement Plan for Works
As Agreed with the PMT on November 17, 2005
Etmtd z     a ,~  Review   Submis-         Noxnvta              cted       u        W
Procurement                       Estimated          E                        ~~~~~~~~~~WB No  nviat            Evau-        No      Contract               Comple-
Procurement                       Locatlon/                    Com                  by Bank    sion     Ojction       ton     Opning      mar 
System                                                       Eot       MI                                                     Bid-io  to   ation &  Objec-    Award       Starte      to
Ref. #                                             (USS) Ic Decripion                                                                                                         DateesOenn  a Om
Ref.                                   (US$) /c    E a' =0 2~~~~~~ (Priori/ edns    Date       Date       Dat        cDtioeaeDt
Description                            ~~~~~~   ~~~~~Post)  Date                           ReDm.tan                Dte         Dt
1. WORKS
1.1 Phase I - Construction of 6 New Rehabilitation Centers
EDP.WN.NCB.1.AM.PH.1    Missan Gov./NewAmara Rehab. Center      $     358,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Jun-06  30-Jun-06  01-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  21-Sep-06   05-Oct-06  03-Aug-07
EDP.WN.NCB.2.BAS.PH.1   Basrah Gov./New Basrah Rehab. Center    $     358,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Jun-06  30-Jun-06  01-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  21-Sep-06   05-Oct-06  03-Aug-07
EDP.WN.NCB.3.SAM.PH.1   Muthanna Gov./New Samawa Rehab. Center  $     358,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Jun-06   30-Jun-06  01-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  21-Sep-06  05-Oct-06  03-Aug-07
EDP.WN.NCB.4.BAQ.PH.1   Diyala Gov./New Baquba Rehab. Center    $     358,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Jun-06  30-Jun-06  01-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  21-Sep-06   05-Oct-06  03-Aug-07
EDP.WN.NCB.5.RAM.PH.1    Anbar Gov./New Ramadi Rehab. Center    $     358,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Jun-06  30-Jun-06  01-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  21-Sep-06   05-Oct-06  03-Aug-07
EDP.WN.NCB.6.KAR.PH.1    Karbala GovJNew Karbala Rehab. Center  $     358,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Jun-06   30-Jun-06  01-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  21-Sep-06  05-Oct-06  03-Aug-07
Subtotal 1.1                                         $   2,148,000
1.2 Phase 2 - Construction of 3 New Rehabilitation Centers with Workshops
EDP.WN.NCB.1.BAG.K.PH.2 Baghdad Gov.New Baghdad/Karkh Rehab.    $     609,000   1    NCB   PRIOR    15-Jul-06  30-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  29-Sep-06  14-Oct-06  21-Oct-06  04-Nov-06  30-Sep-07
Center & Worksh.
EDP.WN.NCB.2.DlW.PH.2   Oadissiyah Gov./New Diwaniyah Rehab.    $     609,000   1    NCB   PRIOR    15-Jul-06  30-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  29-Sep-06  14-Oct-06  21-Oct-06  04-Nov-06  30-Sep-07
Center & Worksh.
EDP.WN.NCB.3.KUT.PH.2   Wassif Goy./New kut Rehab. Center & Worksh $  609,000   1    NCB   PRIOR    15-Jul-06  30-Jul-06  31-Jul-06  30-Aug-06  29-Sep-06  14-Oct-06  21-Oct-06  04-Nov-06  30-Sep-07
Subtotal 1.2                                         $   1,827,000
1.3 Phase 3 - Renovation of 5 Existing Rehabilitation Centers
EDP.WRNCB1HAMpH3        BaghdadGOVCKarkh/Renov.HamzaRehab.      $     171,000   1    NCB    Post   15-Aug-06     N.A.    15-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  29-Sep-06    N.A.     15-Oct-06   29-Oct-06  24-Sep-07
EDP.WR.NCB.2.HIL.PH.3    Babel Gov./Renov. Hilla Rehab. Center  $     171,000   1    NCB    Post   15-Aug-06     N.A.    15-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  29-Sep-06    N.A.     15-Oct-06   29-Oct-06  24-Sep-07
EDP.WR.NCB.3.KIR.PH.3    Kirkuk Gov./Renov. Kirkuk Rehab. Center  $    85,000   1    NCB    Post   15-Aug-06     N.A.    15-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  29-Sep-06    N.A.     15-Oct-06   29-Oct-06  24-Sep-07
EDP.WR.NCB.4.NAS.PH.3   &h QarGov.Renov NasiriyahRehab Center   $     291,000   1    NCB   PRIOR   15-Aug-06  30-Aug-06  31-Aug-06  30-Sep-06  30-Oct-06  15-Nov-06  20-Nov-06  04-Dec-06   30-Sep-07
EDP.WR.NCB.5.TIK.PH.3   Salah Al-Din Gov./Renov. Tikrit Worksh.  $     91,000   1    NCB    Post   15-Aug-06     N.A.    15-Aug-06  14-Sep-06  29-Sep-06    N.A.     15-Oct-06   29-Oct-06  27-Aug-07
Subtotal 1.3                                         $     809,000
Total 1. Works                                          $  4,784,000
32



Initial Procurement Plan for Goods
As Agreed with the PMT on November 17, 2005
>  Lo,,tion/               (Ustimated  uZ     o =   Reie  submis-    WB No      invita-    Bid-      Evalu-      No      Contract               Comple-
2. GOODS
2.1 Equipment
EDP.G.E.rCB.1.PH.0-3    Worshop Equipment u                       1,290,000      1   ICB   PRIOR  15-Febs 6  02-Mar-06  09-Mar-06  08-Apr-06  08-May-06  23-May-06  07tun-06  07-Ju1-06  31-Aug-07
EDP.G.E.ICB.2.PH.0-3    Rehabilimt   Don Equipment            S      1,540,000   1  ICB  PRIOR  15-Feb-06  02-Mar-06 09-Mar-06  08-Apr-06  08-May06  23-May-06   07-Jun-06  07tul-06  31-Aug-07
Sub-Total 2.1                                       S   2,830,000
2.2 Materials
EDP.G.M.ICB.3.PH.0-3    Prosthesis Materials                  S   2,780,000  1    [CB  PRIOR    314Jan-06  17-Feb-06  18-Feb-06  20-Mar-06  04-Apr-06  20-Apr-06  27-Apr-06  I11-May-06  07-Nov-06
EDP.G.M.ICB.4.PH.0-3    Orthosis Materials                    S    930,000   1    ICB  PRIOR    314-an-06  15-Feb-06  16-Feb-06  18-Mar-06  02-Apr-06  17-Apr-06  27-Apr-06  I11-May-06  07-Nov-06
EDP.G.M.ICB.5.PH.0-3    Medical Aids                          S   4,620,000  thd  ICB  PRIOR    154Jan-06  304Jan-06  314Jan-06  02-Mar-06  17-Mar-06  01-Apr-06  1 1-Apr-06  25-Apr-06  22-Oct-06
Sub-Total 2.2                                       S   8,330,000
2.3 Furnfture, Ofce Equipment & Vehicles
EDP.G.F.NCB.1.PH.0-3    Fumiture                              S    150,000   1    NCB  PPJOR    154Jan-06  304Jan-06  31-Jan-06  02-Mar406  17-Mar-06  02-Apr-06  09-Apr-06  23-Apr-06  19-Dec-06
EDP.G.OE.NCB.3.PH.0-3   Computers & Petpherals                $    100,000   1    NCB  PRIOR    15-Fan-06  302-an-06  310-an-06  02-Mar-06  17-Mar-06  02-Apr-06  09-Apr-06  23-Apr-06  19-Dec-06
EDP.G.V.SH.1.PH.0       Vehicles (One    e                    $     30,000   1    SH    Post    021an-06     n.a.    15Feb-06  17-Ma02-Mar0609Mar-0108-Ar-06  08-MAy-06  23-MAy-06  07-Jun-06  0-Jul-06  093-un-06
Sub-Total 2.3                                       $     280,000
Total 2. Goods                                        $ 11,440,000
33



Initial Procurement Plan for Consultants' Services
As Agreed with the PMT on November 2005
Procure-                                                    5.1ev.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,   Review  Adv.rti-  Short  No 1ii. Eapeetad  Tohia         ,        F-            .Deslg.
oWn                                    ipLoctionl                  Estlmtfed          by Bank  name      Lisfing &     No      Ivtto        "Poooi     Tehia         No         Fina        No       Contract     Str       COOWI.-
SProten              Pckg.          Dourp IonfAio                     Coolt             Pr.io   bor EI      Dn                    - Rt Obton  f RFP  SubmInuion  Evaluation  Objection  Ev aluation  Obction  Award  Dat       tion
Method   Pro      .   O       .t        Dote   Ot.       Date        D      afe       Date  D      at Dte    Date        Date
Ref.#                                                            (USS Million)          po t     Date    RFP/TOR                                                                                                              Date
3. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
3.1 Consuatnt Finno
EDP LCS.D&S I.KAR.PH.1             No.1    KarbalaGovJNewiKarbalaRehab. Center  $     65,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Dec-OS  04-Jan-06  09-Jan-06   29-Jan-06   12-Feb-06  19-Feb-06   26-Feb-06  06-Mar-06  12-Mar-06   17-Mar-06  15-Jun-06
EDP.LCS.D&S.2.HIL.PH.3             No.1    BabybDn Gov /Renov. Hila Rehab. Center  S  27,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Dec-OS  04-Jan-06  09-Jan-06   29-Jan-06   12-Feb-06  19-Feb-06   26-Feb-06  08-Mar-06   12-Mar-06  17-Mar-06  04-Aug-06
EDP LCS D&S 3.BAG.PH.2             No.2    Baghdad Gon /Kadd'/New Baghdad Rehab. $    98,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Jan-06  04-Feb-06  09-Feb-06   01-Mar-06   15-Mar-06  22-Mar-06   29-Mar-06  05-Apr-06   10-Apr-06  15-Apr-06   14-Jui-06
Center & Workshop
EDP LCS D&S 4.DEW PH.2             No.3    Oadiuuiyah Govn/New Denaniyah Rehab  $    109,000   LCS   PRhOR              29-Jan-6   04-Feb-06  09-Feb-06   01-Mar-06   15-Mar-06  22-Mar-06  29-Mar-06   05-Apr-06   10-Apr-06  15-Apr-06   14-Jul-06
Center & Workshop.
EDP.LCS.D&S 5.RAM.PH 1             No4     Anbar GovJNew Ramadi Rehab. Center   $     72,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Dec-O5  04-Jan-06  09-Jan-06   29-Jan-06   12-Feb-S6  19-Feb-06   29-Feb-06  06-Mar-06   12-Mar-06  17-Mar-06  15-Jun-06
EDP.LCS.D&S.6.SAM.PH.1             No S    Muthnna Gov./NN   Samawa Rehab.      $     65,000   LCS    Post              29-Dec-O5  044Jan-06  09-Jan-S6   29-Jan-06   12-Feb-06    N.A.     26-Feb-06      NA.      05-Mar-06  19-Mar-06  08-Jun-06
Center
EDP.LCS.D&S.7 NAS PH.3             No S    Thi Oar GovifRenov NasiryahbReabu.   5     52,000   LCS    Post              28-Feb-06  06-Mar-06  11-Mar-06   31-Mar-06   14-Apr-06    N.A.      28-Apr-06    NA.      05-May-O6   10-May-06  08-Aug-06
EDP.LCS.D&S.8 BAD PH 1             No.6    Diyala GovnNew, Baquba Rehab. Center  $    65,000   LCS    Pont              29-Dec-O5  04-Jan-06  09-Jan-06   29-Jan-06   12-Feb-06    N.A.      26-Feb-06    N.A.     Ob-Mar-06   10-Mar-06  08-Jun-06
EDP.LCS.D&S.9.AMA.PH.1             No 7    Missan GonNew Anara Rebab. Center    $     65,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Dec-05  04-Jan-06  09-Jan-06   29-Jan-06   12-Feb-S6  19-Feb-06  26-Feb-06   05-Mar-06   12-Mar-06  17-Mar-06  15-Jun-O6
EDP.LCS .D&. 10.BAS.PH.1           No 7    Banrah GovJNew Barah Rehab. Center   $     65,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Dec-05  04-Jan-06  09-Jan-S6   29-JanO-6   12-Feb-S6  19-Feb-06   26-Feb-06  05-Mar-06   12-Mar-06  17-Mar-06  15-Jun-06
EDP.LCS.D&Sl1.UT.PH.2              No.8    WanossGov./NeoKutfRehab Center&      $    109,000   LCS   PRIOR              29-Jan-06  04-Feb-06  09-Feb-06   01-Mar-06   15-Mar-06  22-Mar4-    29-Mar-06  0-Apr-06   10-Apr-06  15-Apr-06   14-Jui-06
Wotrksh.
EDP.LCS.D&S.12.HAMPH3              No.9    Baghdad/KarkhGovJRenov. Hamnsa Rehab. $    27,000   LCS    Post              29-Feb-06  06-Mar-06  11-Mar4-6   31-Mar4-6   14-Apr-06    N.A.      29-Apr4-6    N.A.     05-May-06   10-May-06  0-Aug-0S
Center
EDP.LCS.D&S.13.KIR.PH.3            No.9    Kirkuk GonjRnev Kirkuk Rehab. Center  5    15000    LCS    Post              29-Feb-06  06-Mar4-6  11-Mar4-6   31-Mar-06   14-Apr-06    N.A.      29-Apr-06    N.A.     05-May-06   10-May-06  09-Aug-06
EDP.LCS.D&.1 4.TIK.PH.3            No.9    Salah Al-Din Gov./Renov. TikrktWorksh  $   16000    LCS    Post              29-Feb-06  06-Mar-06  11-Mar-6    31-Mar4-6   14-Apr-06    N.A.      28-Apr-06    N.A.     06-May-06   10-May-06  09-Aug-06
EDP.SSS.NGO                                NGOs To Be ldenmed                   $    100,000   SSS   PRIOR              02-Apr-S6  0O-Apr-06  13-Apr-06   03-May-06  17-May-06     N.A.     31-Mayr06     N.A.      07-Jun4-6  12-Jun-06  09-Dec-06
EDPLCS.AUDIT                               Audrtor                              $     61,000   LCS    PRIOR   15-Jan-06  05-Feb-06  11-Feb-06  16-Feb-06  08-Mar-06   22-Mar-S6     N.A.     29-Mar-06     NA.      06-Apr-06  10-Apr-S6  11-Dec-07
Sub-Tobtl 3.1                                              $   1S01100
3.2 indIvidual Conottonts
Dsabiltes Working Group (DWG)              Local Consutant                      $     73.000    IC   PRIOR    02-Jan-6  16-Jan-06  23-Jan4-6  29-Jan-06   11-Feb-06   25-Feb-S6  04-Mar-S6   11-Mar-06  18-Mar-Oh   25-Mar-06  01-Apr-06  29-Sep-06
DSabil,ie Policy                           InternatbonalConsutant               $    227,000    IC   PRIOR    02-Jan-S6  16-Jan-06  23-Jan4-6  29-Jan-S6  11-Feb-06   26-Feb-S6  04-Mar-Se   11-Mar-S6  18-Mar-06   25-Mar-06  01-Apr-06  28-Sep-S6
Dsabllte Equ,p.&Med,calAxisEExpert          nternationalConsutand               $     81,000   IC    PRIOR    02-Jan-06  16-Jan-06  23-Jan-06  28-Jan-06  11-Feb-06   25-Feb-06  04-Mar4-6   11-Mar-06  18-Mar-S6   25-Mar-06  01-Apr-06  28-Sep-06
PMT Coenutants                             Local M&E, Safeguand,Fduciary        $    136,000   IC    PRIOR    02-Jan-S6  16-Jan-S6  23-Jan4-6  28-Jan-06  11-Feb-S6   25-Feb-S6  04-Mar-06   11-Mar-06  18-Mar-Oh   25-Mar-06  01-Apr-06  23-Sep-07
Sub-Total 3.2                                              $     517.000
Total 3. Consutant Services                                            9    1,520U000
34



ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Financial Management
I.     Executive Summary and Conclusion
1.    The project financial resources are extended through the ITF and will be managed within the
framework of the Ministry of Health systems, regulations and controls. Presently, the MOH is
implementing the EHRP that is also financed through the ITF. A preliminary financial management
assessment was performed and will be completed during project appraisal. Consequently, the financial
management arrangements of the Project would be adapted to enhance the existing controls and to cater to
the reporting requirements of the Project.
2.     The fiduciary risk of the Grant not being used for the intended purposes, with due regard to
economy, efficiency, and the sustainable achievement of the project's development objective, is
considered as high. The financial management risk as an element of the fiduciary risk is also considered
as high. This rating is the result of the preliminary assessment performed by the Bank team and the
outcome of the various reports issued by independent auditors and other donors.
3.     The financial management arrangements for this Project are expected basically to be somewhat
similar to those being followed under the EHRP, but would be revised based on the specific project
arrangements, taking into consideration the hurdles being faced during the implementation of the EHRP.
This financial management risk will be partly managed through: (i) reinforcing the present controls as
applied by the MOH; (ii) the engagement of a dedicated financial officer and an accountant to follow-on
the project financial activities; (iii) payments to most contractors, consultants and vendors will be made
through direct payment method, while payments below the threshold of US$10,000 will be reimbursed to
the ministry upon presentation of supporting documentation and proof of payment; (iv) gathering and
monitoring the generation of monthly reports by the Directorates/centers on implementation activities; (v)
maintaining a fixed assets spreadsheet for purchased and delivered equipment; (vi) using a spreadsheet
application to follow on the project accounts and to generate the project reports; (vii) having a Monitoring
Agent inside Iraq to monitor the project activities and support the PMTs; and (viii) the engagement of an
independent auditor, with intemational experience acceptable to the bank, to perform the project audit and
issue an independent auditor opinion. All the above activities and procedures will be documented in a
chapter of the PIM based on the MIM.
4.     Despite the above, the residual risk, where possible, will be managed during project
implementation through close monitoring and supervision by the project FMS.
5.     The financial management related risks and risk-management tools are included in tabular form
in the detailed risk analysis (Section F). The project financial management arrangements and identified
risks are detailed at the end of this Annex.
35



II.    Managing Financial Management Risk
Country Financial Management Risk
6.     A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was not undertaken for Iraq. However,
many reports, including the IMF-World Bank Report of April 2005 on Iraq Public Financial
Management6 , show a high inherent risk in almost all the main functions of a financial management
system (budgeting, internal controls, accounting, reporting). The security situation, the huge weaknesses
of the banking system which hamper the domestic payment system and the accuracy of the budget
reporting, and the many years of isolation that Iraq has encountered also add to that risk. This risk will be
partly managed through the implementation and management of the Project by the PMT.
Project Financial Management Risk.
7.     The project FM risk remains high. A detailed assessment is enclosed within the overall project
risk (Section F). It can be summarized by the following:
*  Limited capacity to meet FM requirements of the Project at MOH and Governorates;
*  The inability of carrying out on-site supervision missions and physical inspections;
*  The lack of a fixed assets management system to maintain purchased and delivered equipment
and furniture;
*  Delays in issuing authorizations for payments leading to overdue contractors' payments and thus
undermining competitiveness and leading to higher costs;
*  The banking payment system shortfalls, where payments may be delayed or lost;
*  Possible low level of coordination and reporting arrangements between the PMT, the directorates
and centers;
*  Not being able to maintain a project account for payment of small amount (less than US$10,000)
throughout the life of the project, leading to shortages and delays in payments and
reimbursements.
III.   MOH Project Arrangements
8.     The FM risk is partly managed through a set of procedures classified as follows:
9.     Payment Authorization and Flow of Information. The project activities, including invoices for
advance payments or for actual incurred expenditures, are subject to MOH applicable controls and
procedures in addition to the PMT verification and approval. Streamlined arrangements for processing of
contract approvals and payment authorizations would be put in place to overcome delays experienced in
the current project.
10.    Accounting System. The PMT has a financial team composed of a financial officer and an
accountant. This team will undertake the project request for payments, accounting and reporting activities.
It will coordinate closely with the MOH financial department and the other related points of contact at the
MOH directorates. Spread sheet applications will be used to record the project transactions and to track
the project accounts and generate the financial reports needed for monitoring and decision-making.
6 Enhancing Sound PFM-Short -to Medium-Terms Reforms
36



Flow of Funds and Controls
E-mail Notification of Disbursement
---------------------------------------
MOF                  MOPDC
Request Payment
.                ~~~~MOH/PMT
Grant    -----------
Account
0|   MOHPMT
Proiect Account
Reimbursements
>    Contractors,
Supplier and
Direct Payment        Consultants
Reporting
11.    Ouarterlv: The MOH will generate interim unaudited financial reports/Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) and submit them to the Bank within 45 days from the end of the period. These reports
are made up of:
*  Financial Reports: to include a statement of sources and uses of funds by category, uses of
funds/expenditure report by directorate and category comparing actual and planned expenditures.
Also, a narrative report explaining all variances that exceed 15% when compared to plan and the
proposed corrective actions should be included as an annex to the financial reports.
*  Contracts Reports: to provide information on contracts, including information on all authorized
contract variations, showing contracts' financial status against plan, and percentage of works
completed against payments.
*  Equipment and furniture Reports: to provide information on goods purchased and delivered
under the project per governorate.
12.    The proposed format of the reports is in the project files and has been agreed upon with the MOH
representatives during appraisal/negotiations.
13.    Annuallv: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS), showing yearly and cumulative balances,
will be submitted to the Bank. PFS will include:
*  Statement of sources and uses of funds by component.
*  Appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by category.
*  List of commitments or signed contracts.
* Statement of equipment and furniture purchased.
37



14.    Audit Arrangements. An external independent auditor with international experience will be
engaged to perform the project audit and issue an independent opinion on the project financial statements
(PFS) and compliance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines and terms of the Grant Agreement. The
external audit report will encompass all of the Project's activities and will be in accordance with
internationally accepted auditing standards. MOH will remit a project audit report to the Bank not later
than four months after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor selection process will be launched directly
after the Grant Agreement is signed. An escrow account will be used to pay the auditor after the project
Closing Date. In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter" identifying
any observations, comments, and deficiencies in the system and controls that the auditor considers
pertinent, and will provide recommendations for their improvements.
15.    Project Implementation Manual. All the above activities and procedures will be documented.
within a financial management chapter of the PIM. This manual will be based on the recently finalized
and adopted MIM that includes procurement and financial management guidelines and procedures, as
well as documents to be used for both ITF-financed projects.
16.    Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA). The Bank has engaged an independent firm that will operate
in Iraq as FMA for ITF-financed projects. This FMA has dual roles:
*  Verifying and validating to the Bank the project's financial management and procurement
arrangements and internal controls agreed upon with the implementing agencies.
* Providing advisory services and technical support to the Iraqi Government and the ITF-financed
projects relating to the projects' financial management and procurement arrangements and the
generation of periodical and reliable financial reports.
IV.    Bank Financial Management Supervision
17.    Where security conditions make travel to Iraq impossible for Bank staff, supervision missions
will be undertaken in an alternative country. The Bank supervision mission after Project Effectiveness
will take the form of a Project Launch Workshop where further training on Bank procedures and
guidelines will be provided. Intensive supervision will be required initially to ensure that the PMT and
the qualified staff from the MOH Finance Department are well-trained in implementation of Bank-
financed projects.
Action                                      Due Date
Start Auditor selection process             After Grant Agreement signature
Finalize the financial chapter of the PIM   December 31, 2005
Engage a financial officer and an accountant  December 31, 2005
38



Financial Management Risks
Initial
Risk                    Risk              Mitigation Measures
Rating
Country Level
Limited direct knowledge of the Bank about       Use of MOH controls strengthened by the
the Iraqi government financial systems,          PMT verification, parallel accounting system,
controls, and procedures.                        mainly the Direct payment method, hiring of
external auditors, acceptable to the Bank, with
H     international experience, engaging a
Monitoring Agent inside Iraq, and
documenting all needed procedures in a PIM
based on the MIM.
Limited knowledge about the Bank's policies     Regular communication between the Bank
and guidelines by the Iraqi authorities leading  M  and the PMT and frequent training.
to non-compliance.
Project Level
Limited capacity to meet financial               Engaging a dedicated qualified FO and an
management requirements of the project at        accountant to maintain the financial
MOH, directorates and centers.             H     management function that records
commitments, processes payments, maintains
project accounts and generates reports.
The security conditions which do not allow       Requiring both the Fiduciary Monitoring
timely visits by the Bank project team to        Agent and the external auditor to do periodical
perform physical inspections on the        H     physical inspection for sites under
rehabilitation centers and prosthetic workshop   rehabilitation, each within his TOR.
sites.
The lack of a fixed assets management system     Having the PMT maintain a fixed assets
at MOH.                                    H     spreadsheet for purchased and delivered
equipment.
Delays in issuing authorizations for payments    Arranging for streamlined arrangements for
leading to overdue contractors' payments and  H  processing of contract approvals and payment
thus undermining competitiveness and leading     authorizations.
to higher costs.
The banking payment system shortfalls, where     The Bank issuing payment advices and giving
payments may be delayed or lost.          M      PMT access to ClientConnection to monitor in
a timely way the payment date and investigate
any significant delays.
Possible low level of coordination and           Having clear responsibilities and reporting
insufficient reporting arrangements between     arrangements among all parties involved and
the PMT, the directorates and the centers  M     addressing any problem immediately.
leading to different results and discrepancies
between reporting on physical progress and
related expenditures.
39



Not being able to maintain a project account     PMT submitting formal request to MOF and
for payment of small amount (less than           ensuring account guaranteed throughout the
US$10,000) through out the life of the project  H  project life.
leading to shortages and delays in payments
and reimbursements.
Overall FM Risk                            H
Overall risk                               H
H = High Risk; S = Substantial Risk; M = Modest Risk: N = Low or Negligible Risk
Disbursement Arrangements
18.    The Bank's strategy in Iraq is to implement projects though the Iraqi Ministries (rather than
through project implementation units outside government structures), ensuring that appropriate and
effective financial controls are in place over the use of funds provided by the Bank, while at the same
time working together to strengthen the Ministries' own financial control processes and procedures.
Taking into consideration the high risk environment assessed for the Project, including the assessed high
financial management risk, the disbursement arrangements will compensate by continuing to use
conservative disbursement methods. The disbursement methods to be used will be:
(i)    Direct Payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants for eligible expenditures, for
disbursements over US$10,000.
(ii)   Reimbursement to the MOH for eligible expenditures under US$10,000 paid from the MOH
resources.
(iii)  Special Commitments to a commercial bank to reimburse the commercial bank for payments
made to a supplier against Letters of Credit issued at the request of the MOH for eligible expenditures.
19.    These are the disbursement methods that have been used for the existing World Bank ITF
projects currently under implementation and which have proven to be effective. Extensive training has
been provided to the PMT of the EHRP on the Bank's disbursement processes. Supporting
documentation, e.g., copies of invoices and receipts, is required to be provided with all requests to
disburse funds. The original copies of the supporting documentation will be maintained by the MOH and
made available for review by Bank representatives upon request.
20.    The agreements with the Donors to the WB ITF allow for the financing of 100 percent of project
expenditures. The MOH contributes implementation support, including the assignment of MOH staff to
the PMT, MOH staff support in the MOH Directorates, and some related operating expenses.
21.    The allocation of the proceeds of the Grant by expenditure category is as follows:
40



Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Amount of
Grant Allocated           % of
Category                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
US$ Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                              4,700,000              100%
(2) Goods                                   11,230,000              100%
(3) Consultants' services                    1,920,000              100%
(4) Training                                 1,190,000              100%
(5) Operating costs                            110,000              100%
(6) Unallocated                                350,000              100%
Total                                   19,500,000
41



ANNEX 6: RESULTS-BASED SUPERVISION PLAN
(Expected Project Outputs)
Quantity           VaBlue in
AC I li l lYDESCRIPTION                DATE              Q    iS$ uillion
Plan   Actual     Plan     Ac[ual
Construction of 9 New Rehabilitation Centers and Renovation of 5 Existing
Centers at 15 Governorates
Phase I: Construction of 6 New Rehabilitation Centers (Rehabilitation Facilities only) at 6 Governorates
A    Bidding Documents Completed /a       June 15, 2006      6
B    Construction Contracts Awarded     September 21, 2006   6                2.15
C    Centers Completed                   August 3, 2007      6
Phase II: Construction of 3 New Rehabilitation Centers (Rehabilitation Facilities and Prosthesis
Workshop) at 3 Governorates
A    Bidding Documents Completed          July 15, 2006      3
B    Construction Contracts Awarded      October 21, 2006    3                1.83
C    Centers Completed                  September 30, 2007   3
Phase III: Renovation of 5 Existing Centers at 5 Governorates
A    Bidding Documents Completed         August 15, 2006     5
B    Construction Contracts Awarded      October 29, 2006    5                0.81
C    Centers Completed                  September 24, 2007   5
Equipping and Furnishine of 18 (9 New and 9 Existine) Rehabilitation Centers at 15 Governorates
Medical Aids to be distributed through the 18 Project Centers (Wheelchairs, Crutches, Walking Sticks,
etc)
A    Bidding Documents Completed         January 31, 2006    -
B    Contracts Awarded                    April 11, 2006     -                4.62
C    Equipment Delivered               July 15-October 22,
2006
Equipment for 18 Project Centers (Rehabilitation Equipment, Workshop Machines and Tools,
Prosthesis/Orthosis Materials)
A    Bidding Documents Completed         January 31, 2006    -
B    Contracts Awarded                    April 27, 2006     -                6.54
C    Equipment Delivered                 August 31, 2007
Computers & Peripherals for 18 Project Centers
A    Bidding Documents Completed         January 15, 2006    -
B    Contracts Awarded                    April 9, 2006      -                0.10
C    Equipment Delivered                 July - December
2006
Furniture for 17 Project Centers
A    Bidding Documents Completed         January 15, 2006    -
B    Contracts Awarded                    April 9, 2006      -                0.17
C    Equipment Delivered                 July - December
2006
42



ANNEX 7: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT
FRAMEWORK
Introduction
The Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) will provide the general
policies, guidelines, codes of practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation of the
Project (see Annex 7A).
Potential Adverse Impact
The activities supported by the Project comprise renovation and expansion of disability rehabilitation
centers and workshops. Potential adverse environmental impacts (summarized below) are restricted in
scope and severity:
* Dust and noise due to demolition and construction;
* Dumping of demolition and construction wastes and accidental spillage of machine oil, lubricants, etc;
* Risk for inadequate use of hazardous anti termite chemicals during foundation works; and
* Risk for inadequate handling of wastewater, and waste material during operation of workshops.
Handling of Non-medical Wastes
It will be the responsibility of MOH to provide training courses for all staff involved in the management
of wastes from rehabilitation centers and workshops to make them aware of hazards, as well as to educate
patients and visitors on proper hygiene and cleanliness with respect to waste. Public awareness campaigns
should be held at the community level. The training of personnel should not solely explain routine
procedures, but should also cover emergency procedures, such as what action should be taken as a result
of a spillage of particular types of waste. It would also be the responsibility of MOH to develop and
monitor supplies and consumer policies which aim to minimize the level of waste generated as a result of
the provision of services.
In order to ensure the safe and efficient handling and disposal of waste generated in the rehabilitation
centers and workshops, it will be necessary to develop operational policies. These should be based upon
the central MOH principle of strict segregation between medical and domestic waste and appropriate
disposal of waste.
In order to be compliant with emerging guidelines and promote an environmentally-conscious approach
to waste management, operational policies should also be based on the segregation of domestic waste into
organic, non-organic and recyclable categories.
Workshops Waste Management Plans
The establishment of Workshop Waste Management Plans is not included in the proposed project for
renovation and extension of rehabilitation centers and workshops, but the issue should be considered in
future projects in Iraq. Factors that govern waste management strategies are the legislative and regulatory
framework, and the waste treatment and disposal costs. The waste should be collected by specialist
contractors for proper disposal in approved landfills elsewhere in the municipality.
43



ANNEX 7A: CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
X~~                    H            i!|
Disease caused by poor water
quality:
* contamination by seepage from      . Prioritize leak detection and repair of pipe networks.
latrines, municipal waste or
agricultural areas.           * Chemical and bacteriological testing of water quality from
* high mineral concentrations.     adjacent comparable sources prior to installation of new
sources.
w creation of stagnant pools of    Redesign to prevent contamination if adjacent comparable
sources are found to be contaminated.
* Subsequent monitoring of installed or rehabilitated sources.
* Appropriate location, apron and drainage around tubewells and
dug wells to prevent formation of stagnant pools.
* Provision of cover and hand-pump to prevent contamination of
dug wells.
* Where pit latrines are used they should be located more than
1 Om from any water source. The base should be sealed and
separated by at least 2m of sand or loamy soil from the
groundwater table.
* Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they should be
sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soak away located at
least 1 Om from any water source or be connected to a working
drain.
44



Social Risks:
* Lack of clear division of rights/  * Ensure sufficient community participation and organization for
responsibilities may result in  effective planning and management of infrastructure.
maintenance problems of
maintenanell/u problems o* Include downstream water users (e.g. water supply, irrigation,
livestock watering) in planning of water storage reservoirs.
* Lack of clear definition of user
rights ofoclear definiond f pumpse m * Identify proper mechanism of rights and responsibilities over
rights for wells and pumps may  well/pump/reservoir usage through participatory village focus
create exclusion of vulnerable
groups.                         groups.
* Ensure that local accessible materials are used when
by interest groups.             developing/rehabilitating wells in order to provide
maintenance.
* Use of foreign equipment!     * For each pump/well/reservoir/ borehole establish clear
materials may hinder
maintenance of pumps/wells.     guidelines of user rights through participatory focus groups;
Ensure that access to water pumps/reservoirs is equitable to
* Potential impacts to cultural   prevent capture by interest groups.
property.                    * Use archaeological chance find procedures and coordinate with
ap ropriate agencies.
S_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Contamination of water supplies:
* contamination of groundwater  * Where pit latrines are used they should be located more than
n10m from any water source. The base should be sealed and
separated vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil
* contamination of surface waters  from the groundwater table.
due to flooding or over-flowing.  * Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they should be
sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soak away located at
least 1 Om from any water source or be connected to a working
drain.
* Maintenance training to be delivered along with new latrines.
Disease caused by poor handling  * Training and health education to be provided to nightsoil
practices of nightsoil.           handlers where affected by interventions.
* Protective clothing and appropriate containers for nightsoil
transportation to be provided.
45



PotrIT'               *    ' -YVV           '-o^S'~, 
Disease caused by inadequate    * Nightsoil should be handled using protective clothing to
excreta disposal or inappropriate  prevent any contamination of workers skin or clothes.
use of latrines.                * Where nightsoil is collected for agricultural use it should be
stored for a sufficient period to destroy pathogens through
composting. At the minimum it should be stored in direct
sunlight and turned regularly for a period of at least 6 weeks.
* Septic tanks should not be constructed nor septic waste
collected unless primary and secondary treatment and safe
disposal is available.
* Health and hygiene education to be provided for all users of
latrines.
* Awareness campaign to maintain sanitary conditions.
Potential health and environmental  * Secondary treatment of wastewater and chlorination of final
risks associated with use of treated  effluent followed by aeration prior to restricted wastewater
wastewater effluent for irrigation:  reuse; initial monitoring of irrigation water quality in irrigation
channels in addition to effluent monitoring at treatment plant
*  Socio-Economic Risk            outfall.
*  Permanent loss of productive  * Purchase of replacement land.
land
*  Reduction in local property  * Monetary compensation.
values                      * Reconsideration of rate structures.
*  Ability to pay of poorer
segments of o-oulation.
IC 3                                                                 iL_ _   _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Disease caused by inadequate
collection and disposal, including
health risks from:
* insects, rats.                * Sufficient frequency of collection from tansfer stations.
* burning of waste.
* industrial/medical waste.     * Containment of waste during collection and transfer.
* Promote separation at source to reduce spreading by rag-pickers
* Odors during operation.         during recycling.
* Minimize burning.
* Separate collection and disposal system for medical or
hazardous wastes.
* Assess requirement for additional investment in final disposal
site.
* Provide daily soil covering.
46



Contamination of water supplies:  * Site transfer stations should have sealed base and be located at
least 1 5m away from water sources with the base separated
*   lateral seepage into surface    vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil from the
waters.                          groundwater table.
*   seepage of contaminants into  * Assess requirement for additional investment in final disposal
aquifers.                        site to protect water sources.
*   contamination from           * Monitoring of site to prevent illegal dumping.
clandestine dumping.
Injury and death from earthquake.  * Apply low-cost seismic structural designs.
Disease caused by inadequate     * Ensure designs include adequate sanitary latrines and access to
provision of water and sanitation.  safe water.
Damage to historical buildings.  * Ensure actions involving historical buildings are
reviewed/desig ned by qualified specialists.
Environmental Impacts:
* Improper disposal of wastes.   * Ensure inclusion of adequate sanitation facilities and
* Improper disposal of medical      maintenance.
wastes.                        * Ensure planning, design and maintenance of infrastructure is
* Sanitation problems.              appropriate to local needs, traditions, culture and desires.
* Some construction related      * Proper disposal of all solid wastes, containers, infectious
* Someconstrctlon elatedwastes.
problems but usually minor in
nature.                        * Public health awareness.
* Medical waste disposal.        * Priority given to rehabilitation of toilets in rehabilitation of
* Storage of hazardous materials.  /clinics.
* Undertake awareness activities to reduce risk of transmission of
* Spread of disease from incoming   diseases.
laborers.
47



Social Impacts:
* The vulnerable groups (women,  * Before the start of each infrastructure project, develop
poor children, migrants,       comprehensive organizational and maintenance plan,
pastoralists and the poor) may  commitment from local government and public to maintain
not benefit from infrastructure  school supplies, medical supplies, etc.
construction and rehabilitation.
* health posts may become
abandoned due to the lack of
commitment.
* Building infrastructure system
alone without needs assessment
may not benefit the community.
* Infrastructure investments may
be misappropriated by
governments.
48



ANNEX 7B: SAFEGUARDS PROCEDURES FOR INCLUSION IN THE TECHMNCAL
SPECIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTS
I.     General
1.    The Contractor and his employees shall adhere to the mitigation measures set down and take all
other measures required by the Engineer to prevent harm, and to minimize the impact of his operations
on the environment.
2.    The Contractor shall not be permitted to unnecessarily strip clear the right of way. The Contractor
shall only clear the minimum width for construction and diversion roads should not be constructed
alongside the existing road.
3.    Remedial actions which cannot be effectively carried out during construction should be carried
out on completion of each Section of the road (earthworks, pavement and drainage) and before issuance
of the Taking Over Certificate:
(a) these sections should be landscaped and any necessary remedial works should be undertaken
without delay, including grassing and reforestation;
(b) water courses should be cleared of debris and drains and culverts checked for clear flow
paths; and
(c) borrow pits should be dressed as fish ponds, or drained and made safe, as agreed with the
land owner.
4.     The Contractor shall limit construction works to between 6 am and 7 pm if it is to be carried out
in or near residential areas.
5.     The Contractor shall avoid the use of heavy or noisy equipment in specified areas at night, or in
sensitive areas such as near a hospital.
6.     To prevent dust pollution during dry periods, the Contractor shall carry out regular watering of
earth and gravel haul roads and shall cover material haulage trucks with tarpaulins to prevent spillage.
II.    Transport
7.     The Contractor shall use selected routes to the project site, as agreed with the Engineer, and
appropriately sized vehicles suitable to the class of road, and shall restrict loads to prevent damage to
roads and bridges used for transportation purposes. The Contractor shall be held responsible for any
damage caused to the roads and bridges due to the transportation of excessive loads, and shall be required
to repair such damage to the approval of the Engineer.
8.     The Contractor shall not use any vehicles, either on or off road with grossly excessive, exhaust or
noise emissions. In any built up areas, noise mufflers shall be installed and maintained in good condition
on all motorized equipment under the control of the Contractor.
9.     Adequate traffic control measures shall be maintained by the Contractor throughout the duration
of the Contract and such measures shall be subject to prior approval of the Engineer.
49



III.   Workforce
10.    The Contractor should whenever possible locally recruit the majority of the workforce and shall
provide appropriate training as necessary.
11.    The Contractor shall install and maintain a temporary septic tank system for any residential labor
camp and without causing pollution of nearby watercourses.
12.    The Contractor shall establish a method and system for storing and disposing of all solid wastes
generated by the labor camp and/or base camp.
13.    The Contractor shall not allow the use of fuel wood for cooking or heating in any labor camp or
base camp and provide alternate facilities using other fuels.
14.    The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots, asphalt plants and workshops are located in
appropriate areas as approved by the Engineer and not within 500 meters of existing residential
settlements and not within 1,000 meters for asphalt plants.
15.    The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots and particularly storage areas for diesel fuel
and bitumen and asphalt plants are not located within 500 meters of watercourses, and are operated so that
no pollutants enter watercourses, either overland or through groundwater seepage, especially during
periods of rain. This will require lubricants to be recycled and a ditch to be constructed around the area
with an approved settling pond/oil trap at the outlet.
16.    The contractor shall not use fuelwood as a means of heating during the processing or preparation
of any materials forming part of the Works.
IV.    Quarries and Borrow Pits
17.    Operation of a new borrow area, on land, in a river, or in an existing area, shall be subject to prior
approval of the Engineer, and the operation shall cease if so instructed by the Engineer. Borrow pits shall
be prohibited where they might interfere with the natural or designed drainage patterns. River locations
shall be prohibited if they might undermine or damage the river banks, or carry too much fine material
downstream.
18.    The Contractor shall ensure that all borrow pits used are left in a trim and tidy condition with
stable side slopes, and are drained ensuring that no stagnant water bodies are created which could breed
mosquitoes.
19.    Rock or gravel taken from a river shall be far enough removed to limit the depth of material
removed to one-tenth of the width of the river at any one location, and not to disrupt the river flow, or
damage or undermine the river banks.
20.    The location of crushing plants shall be subject to the approval of the Engineer, and not be close
to environmentally sensitive areas or to existing residential settlements, and shall be operated with
approved fitted dust control devices.
50



V.     Earthworks
21.    Earthworks shall be properly controlled, especially during the rainy season.
22.    The Contractor shall maintain stable cut and fill slopes at all times and cause the least possible
disturbance to areas outside the prescribed limits of the work.
23.    The Contractor shall complete cut and fill operations to final cross-sections at any one location as
soon as possible and preferably in one continuous operation to avoid partially completed earthworks,
especially during the rainy season.
24.    In order to protect any cut or fill slopes from erosion, in accordance with the drawings, cut off
drains and toe-drains shall be provided at the top and bottom of slopes and be planted with grass or other
plant cover. Cut off drains should be provided above high cuts to minimize water runoff and slope
erosion.
25.    Any excavated cut or unsuitable material shall be disposed of in designated tipping areas as
agreed to by the Engineer.
26.    Tips should not be located where they can cause future slides, interfere with agricultural land or
any other properties, or cause soil from the dump to be washed into any watercourse. Drains may need to
be dug within and around the tips, as directed by the Engineer.
VI.    Historical and Archeological Sites
27.    If the Contractor discovers archeological sites, historical sites, remains and objects, including
graveyards and/or individual graves during excavation or construction, the Contractor shall:
(a) Stop the construction activities in the area of the chance find.
(b) Delineate the discovered site or area.
(c) Secure the site to prevent any damage or loss of removable objects. In cases of removable
antiquities or sensitive remains, a night guard shall be present until the responsible local
authorities and the Ministry of Culture take over.
(d) Notify the supervisory Engineer who in turn will notify the responsible local authorities and
the Ministry of Culture immediately (less than 24 hours).
(e) Contact the responsible local authorities and the Ministry of Culture who would be in charge
of protecting and preserving the site before deciding on the proper procedures to be carried
out. This would require a preliminary evaluation of the findings to be performed by the
archeologists of the Ministry of Culture (within 72 hours). The significance and importance
of the findings should be assessed according to the various criteria relevant to cultural
heritage, including the aesthetic, historic, scientific or research, social and economic values.
(f) Ensure that decisions on how to handle the finding be taken by the responsible authorities and
the Ministry of Culture. This could include changes in the layout (such as when the finding is
an irremovable remain of cultural or archeological importance) conservation, preservation,
restoration and salvage.
(g) Implementation for the authority decision concerning the management of the finding shall be
communicated in writing by the Ministry of Culture; and
51



(h) Construction work will resume only after authorization is given by the responsible local
authorities and the Ministry of Culture concerning the safeguard of the heritage.
VII.   Disposal of Construction and Vehicle Waste
28.    Debris generated due to the dismantling of the existing structures shall be suitably reused, to the
extent feasible, in the proposed construction (e.g., as fill materials for embankments). The disposal of
remaining debris shall be carried out only at sites identified and approved by the project engineer. The
contractor should ensure that these sites (a) are not located within designated forest areas; (b) do not
impact natural drainage courses; and (c) do not impact endangered/rare flora. Under no circumstances
shall the contractor dispose of any material in environmentally sensitive areas.
29.    In the event any debris or silt from the sites is deposited on adjacent land, the Contractor shall
immediately remove such, debris or silt and restore the affected area to its original state to the satisfaction
of the Supervisor/Engineer.
30.    Bentonite slurry or similar debris generated from pile driving or other construction activities shall
be disposed of to avoid overflow into the surface water bodies or form mud puddles in the area.
31.    All arrangements for transportation during construction including provision, maintenance,
dismantling and clearing debris, where necessary, will be considered incidental to the work and should be
planned and implemented by the contractor as approved and directed by the Engineer.
32.    Vehicle/machinery and equipment operations, maintenance and refueling shall be carried out to
avoid spillage of fuels and lubricants and ground contamination. An "oil interceptor" will be provided for
wash down and refueling areas. Fuel storage shall be located in proper bunded areas.
33.    All spills and collected petroleum products shall be disposed of in accordance with standard
environmental procedures/guidelines. Fuel storage and refilling areas shall be located at least 300m from
all cross drainage structures and important water bodies or as directed by the Engineer.
52



ANNEX 8A: PROPOSED INPUTS BY CENTER
Facility                                   Equipment
New     New     Renov   Renov                                       Medic     IT       Furniture
Name of Center        Governorate      Rehab   Wshop    Rehab   Wshop      Rehab   Wshop    Pros.   Ortho.   Aids    Equip
1 Baghdad Center         Baghdad/Karkh      *       *                           *       *       *        *
2 Salam                  Baghdad/Risafa                                         *                                *       *
3 Hamza                  Baghdad/Karkh                                          S *                              *
4 Medical Rehab Center   Baghdad/Risafa                                                          *       *       *       *
5 Amara                  Missan                                                 *                                *       *            0
6 Baquba                 Diyala                                                 *                                *
7 Basrah                 Basrah            -                                    0               0        *       *       *            0
8 Diwaniyah              Qadissiyah         _       *                           *       *        *       *       *       *            0
9 Erbil                  Erbil                                                                  *        *       0       *            0
10 Hilla                  Babel                                                  0 *     *                0 *     *       *
11 Karbala                Karbala        :t41  i4                                0                                *       *
12 Kirkuk                 Kirkuk                                                 0 *                                      0            0
13 Kut                    Wassit             *   -      *                        *       *       *        *       *
14 Mousil                 Ninewa                                                 *                                *       *
15 Nasiriyiah             Thi Qar                                                0       0 *     *        *       *                    0
16 Ramadi                 Anbar                                                  0                                0       0            0
17 Samawa                 Muthanna                                               0 *                              *       *
18 Tikrit                 Salah Al-Din                                                           0        0 *     *                    0
Totals               18           9        3       4       2          15       5       9       9       18      18           17
Key:
IIII::IIIIPhase 1- 6 Centers
*    Phase II - 3 Centers
/,/, Phase IlIl - 5 Centers
53



ANNEX 8B: COST ESTIMATES BY PHASE AND CENTER
(in US$ '000)
Phase                Center                                           Total
Phase 0 - Existing Centers to be Equipped & Furnished
Salam                       -       -       9       362    371
MRC                         -       -       9      668     677
Erbil                       -       -       9      668     677
Mousil                      -       -       9      362     371
Subtotal Phase 0                             -      -       36    2,060   2,096
Phase 1 - New Rehabilitation Centers
Amara                       358     65       9      364    796
Basrah                      358     65      9      775    1,207
Karbala                     358     65      9      364     796
Samawa                      358     65      9       364    796
Baquba                      358     65      9      364     796
Ramadi                      358     72      9      364     803
Subtotal Phase 1                           2,148    397     54     2,595  5,194
Phase 2 - New Rehabilitation Centers with Workshops
Baghdad Center              609     98     -      1,036   1,743
Dewaniyah                   609    109      9     1,037   1,764
Kut                         609    109      9     1,037   1,764
Subtotal Phase 2                           1,827    316     18     3,110  5,271
Phase 3 - Existing Centers to be Renovated
Hamza                       171     27      9       367    574
Kirkuk                       85     15      9       367    476
Tikrit                       91     16       9      678    794
Hilla                       171     27      9     1,039   1,246
Nasiriyah                   291     52      9     1,039   1,391
Subtotal Phase 3                            809     137     45     3,490  4,481
Grant Total                            4,784    850    153    11,255  17,042
Note I
Rehabilitation Equipment, Workshop Equipment, Prosthesis Materials,
Orthosis Materials, Medical Aids, Computers & Peripherals
54



ANNEX 9: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Years          CY-2005                                         CY-2006                                                                CY-2007
Months   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun I Jul  Avg   Sep   0c    Nec   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Arr   May   Jun   1Jul  Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov  Dec
Weeks 12341 23412341234123412341234123412341234p                             23412341234123                412341234123         May         J                           I
A Consultant Selection Process (LCS)                                                                                        I                                                                      I
I  PMT finalizes TORFii
3  PMT prepares RFP document & consultant shorthst
4   IDA issues its N.0 I to proceed with invitation                                                                                                                                                I
S   Consultants prepare & submit technical & financial proposals                                                            i
6   PMT evaluates technical proposals & recommends awards                                                       -
7  IDA issues its "NO." to PMT to open financial pnoposats                                                                 I                                                                      I
8   PMT prepares draft contract and requests N0 t fnom IDA                                                                                                                                         i
9   IDA issues its "NO. to proceed with signing                             -                                                                                                                     I
10  PMT signs contractvith consultant                                  -                              r
B Execution of Design Assignment                                                                       I   Desin 3m
1  Consultant conducts Soil Investgation                                                                      r
2   Consultant submits Schemabc Designs                                                                                                                                                            I
3  Client reviews and approves                                                                              _
4  Consultant prepares Room & Equip. Layouts
5   Consultant prepares Final Designs                                        F F
6  Client reviews and approves                                                                                     *      i    .
7   Consultant prepares Bidding Documents                                                                          WNW
C Bidding, Contracting                                                                                                      I                                                                      I
Phase I - Now Construction (New Sites)                                                              -         f           I                                                                      F
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents bo IDA                                                                              i   h
2   IDA issues its N.O to proceed with bidding                                                                                                         Construction of Rehabilitation Units at
3   Bidding period                                                                                                                                                 6 New Locations
4   Bid evaluation
S   IDA issues its 'NO.' (if required)                                                                                     I             15         [                           Fumiture/Equi montDelivery
B   Contract is signed & Contractor moves into site                                         .                                           1II                                                       I .  lp
7   Construction period (9-mo 272 days)                                                                                    I                   _
Phase 11 - New Construction (New Sites)                                                                  C   l; iI   l    .jig:ii. i                                                           T __ ..
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDA                                                                                                                               I                           I  7
2   IDA issues its 'NO." to proceed with bidding                                                                           I                                   Construction of Rehabilitation Units and
3  Bidding period                                                                                                                                             Prosthetic Workshops at 3 New Locations
4  Bid evaluation                                                                                                                                                             rho
5   IDA issues its N.O.' (if required)                                                                                                                                                      F urnhtureEqu  m nt tetivery
6  Contract is signed & Contractor moves into site.
7   Constructon period (12-mo 364 days)                                                                                   AIA
Phase iII - Renovation (Existing Centers)                                                                     -l     fI'
I  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDA                                                                                    I                                                                      I
2   IDA issues its 'N O  to pnoceed with bidding1 
3   Bidding period                                                                        F                                                                         Renovation of 5 Existing Centers
4   Bid evaluation-I                                                                                                             
S IDA issues its 'N.O. (if required)                                                                                      I                           j        [|||[[|Furnhurt                        Ilpwt Jlvry
6  Contract is signed & Contractor moves into site                                                                         I
7  Constnctbon period (9-mo, 272 days)                                                                                     g                                                                        ,IIIhIIj
Ndte:                                                                                              0   Signing th D&S Coaultants  0                  Critg al btEahtun AotMti"s
1 Phase I will be designed by the Firms selected under EHRP
2 Phases Il-Ill will be designed and suprevsed by Fims selected under OBS procedure
Phase 1(6 Centers):                  Phase 11(3 Centers):          Phase Ill (5 Centers):
Amara                                Baghdad Center                Hamsa
Basrah                              DOwaniyah                      Kirkut
Karbala                              Kut                           Tikrit
Samawa                                                             Hilla
Baquba                                                             Nasiriyah
Ramadi
55



ANNEX 10: INTERNATIONAL DONOR HEALTH ACTIVITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
Donor Agency
Description of Health-related Activities          US$        Funding
Source
World Bank      The Iraq Emergency Rehabilitation Project activities include:  25,000,000  IRRFI
*   Emergency rehabilitation of 12 emergency health
facilities;
*   Urgent provision of basic medical and laboratory
equipment and essential emergency drugs to the 12
rehabilitated sites; and
*   Strengthening of planning and management capacity
within the central and provincial health administrations.
The Iraq Emergency Disabilities Project activities include:  19,500,000
*   Emergency reconstruction/renovation of rehabilitation
centers and prosthetics workshops in 18 locations;
*   Urgent provision of basic medical and specialized
equipment for the centers and workshops; and
*   Preparation of a national policy framework for the
disabled;
*   Strengthening the partnerships with key NGOs active in
the area of disabilities
Additional technical assistance in health policy and health
systems development has been provided through EU, IRFFI and
World Bank funding.
UN Health       UN Health Cluster approved projects:                                IRRFI
Cluster            *   Emergency Obstetric Care - UNFPA                   12,603,000
*   Supporting Primary Health Care System - WHO       37,363,000  (other
(WHO, UNICEF,      *   Re-establishing the National Drug Quality Control   5,977,000  donors such
UNFPA)                 Laoaoy-WOas USAID,
*   Strengthening non-communicable diseases and mental  11,000,000   EU have
health controls - WHO                                         funded
Pipeline: Specific activities not available but budget in pipeline:  vactriteis
US$ 78,000,000                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~under their
project
objectives)
USIPCO          Construction:                                                        US
The Buildings, Health and Education Sector (BHE) will spend  786,000,000
(United States  $786 million on healthcare facilities and healthcare-related
Iraq Project    equipment. To date, roughly $70 million of the total $916 million
and             allocated to general renovation and construction projects have
Contracting     been spent. More specifically, the BHE Sector has begun
Office)        renovations on five hospitals. The BHE to-do list includes
rehabilitating and constructing approximately 150 primary
healthcare centers and renovating 19 hospitals.
Non-construction:
* Equipment Procurement/Modernization
- Equipment for clinics/hospitals, staff training
* Capacity Building
- Infectious disease control, national health policy reform,
institutional decentralization
56



USAID           Grant to UNICEF:                                                     us
Grant provides fQr: restoration/provision of basic health services  8,000,000 1st
(United States  to the most vulnerable populations, focusing on women and  year (up to
Agency for      children; support for primary health care services; fund essential  40,000,000)
International   medicines, vaccines and micronutrients; establishment a rapid
Development)   referral and response system for the most serious cases; and
publishing and distribution relevant health education materials
and nutritional assessments.
Grant to WHO:
Grant provides for: identification of crucial immediate and short-  10,000,000
term health care needs of the population; rapid restoration of
essential health services for the population; and strengthening of
the capacity of a reformed Iraqi Ministry of Health to manage the
health sector including review and further development of health
policies and health system management.
JICA            Humanitarian Assistance for Iraq                          29,500,000  JICA
(a) World Food Programme (WFP): food supply            (combined with
(Japan          (b) United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF): child care,  other sectors))
International   education
Cooperation     (c) International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC): distribution
Agency)         of medical supplies
(d) United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR):
assistance for refugees
Assistance for the emergency medical activities of NGOs    3,300,000
(a) Japan Plafform Joint Team operating in Jordan
(b) Peace Winds Japan operating in Northern Iraq
Humanitarian and Recovery Assistance                          90,000
Grassroots Assistance to Umm Qasr Community: provision of
vehicles, pharmaceutical kits and potable water tanks
Assistance to the following NGO activities                 2,700,000
(a) Medical projects and distribution of emergency supplies in
Iraq carried out by Japan Platform (Japanese NGOs)
(b) Project distributing medical supplies including antibiotics in
Iraq run by Hashemite Charity Organization (Jordanian NGO,
May 16)
(c) Project distributing medical equipment such as Infant
Intravenous Kits run by CARE International (International NGO,
May 16)
Further consideration will be given to implementing the   24,450,000
following projects:                                    (combined with
(a) Emergency Assistance for Hospital Rehabilitation and  other sectors)
Equipment
Activities: rehabilitate general hospitals for which
Government of Japan had provided loan aid in the past.
(b) Emergency Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation Programme
Activities: provide support for projects in the areas of
water supply, drainage and sanitation.
(c) Reconstruction of Public and Other Facilities in Iraq
Activities: rehabilitate public facilities as "reconstruction
models."
57



EU/ECHO         (a) Emergency relief operations of the following partners were  12,377,000  EU
funded:                                                 (combined with
(European                                                               other sectors)
Union/Europea       *  The International Committee of the Red Cross: for food,
n Community            medical kits and rehabilitation of water/sanitation
Humanitarian           facilities in conflict-affected areas.
Aid                 *  UNICEF: for water tankering, sanitation, emergency
Department)            rehabilitation of primary healthcare centers and
hospitals in the centre and south of Iraq.
*   CARE: for emergency water supply in the Baghdad
region as well as Al Anbar governorate (west) where
30,000 people had no access to water.
*   Premiere Urgence: for basic repairs to health
institutions, tents to boost hospital capacity, back-up
generators and water supplies in the Baghdad area, in
support of up to 20,000 civilian victims of the fighting.
*   UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
(OCHA): for coordination activities in countries of the
region neighboring Iraq.
(b) This funding was meant to meet urgent medical needs in  13,029,000
Iraq, following bomb damage and widespread looting that  (combined with
affected hospitals and other health facilities. The funding covered  other sectors)
the provision of medical and hygiene supplies to medical
facilities (the first consignment was airlifted to Baghdad on May
9), rehabilitation of damaged or looted infrastructures, including
the restoration of water and electricity supplies, support for
emergency medical and surgical care, and emergency
vaccination campaigns.
Partners for this decision were Medecins du Monde (Spain and
Greece), Terre des Hommes (IT), GOAL, Gruppo di Volontariato
Civile (GVC), Aide Medicale Internationale (France), Premiere
Urgence (France), CARE (NL), Telecommunications sans
Frontieres and UNICEF.
(c) This funding was meant to complement the "Oil-for-Food"  48,208,000
programme, which was then managed by the United Nations  (combined with
humanitarian agencies. Projects funded included:         other sectors)
* Health and nutrition: rehabilitation of health and social
infrastructures, training in disease surveillance, distribution
of essential medicines, materials and equipment, provision
of fresh food for hospital patients, and complementary food
supplies.
* Other sectors: water and sanitation; coordination, logistics
and technical assistance, including the opening in Baghdad
of an ECHO support office shortly after the war ended.
The partners were Acted, Action contre la faim, Alisei,
Aide Medicale Internationale, Care-UK, Comite d'aide medicale,
COOPI, COSV, Dan Church Aid, Enfants du monde-Droits de
I'homme, Gruppo di Volontariato Civile, Help Age, the
International Organization for Migrations, INTERSOS, Merlin,
Movimondo, Oxfam, Pharmaciens sans Frontieres, Premiere
Urgence, Solidarites, T6lecommunications sans Frontieres,
Terre des Hommes, Un Ponte per..., the United Nations
Development Programme, UNICEF, the World Food
Programme, and the World Health Organisation.
58



(d) The objective of this funding, to be implemented in 2004, is  41,364,000
to respond effectively to the continuing humanitarian needs in  (combined with
Iraq. Activities include:                               other sectors)
* Health: rehabilitation of primary health centers, provision of
medical equipment and drugs, support for mother and child
health actions, promotion of safe blood transfusion
programs and support for disease surveillance and the
development of accurate health information systems.
* Other sectors: water and sanitation; education; de-mining;
emergency relief for IDPs; and security strengthening.
NGOs            NGOs are subcontracted by the above donors whose activities      NA  Various
are delineated above. To avoid duplication of activities, they are
not included in this table.
Sources:
UN Health Cluster:
http://www.irffi.orc/\WBSITE/EXTERNAUIRFFI/O. .contentMDK;20241686-menuPK:497875--paqePK:64168627-piPK:
64167475-theSitePK:491458,00.html
US/PCO: http://www.rebuildinc-
iraq.netlportal/pacie? paqeid=75,80102& dad=Dortal& schema=PORTAL&p tab id=1571&P) link id=1573&Reqid=1
USAID: http://www.usaid.qov/iraa/activities.html
EU/ECHO: http://europa.eu.int/comm/echo/field/irac/fundinq2Q03 en.htm
JICA: htto://www.embiapan.orq/enqlish/html/policies/political/assistanceforiraasummary.htm
World Bank: http://www-
wds.worldbank.orq/servletVWDS I Bank Servlet?pcont=details&eid=000104615 20041005091901
59



ANNEX 11: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Sequence                                     Timing
Time taken to prepare and process the Project  7 months
Identification and preparation mission       July 21, 2005
Appraisal                                    November 14, 2005
Negotiations                                 November 17, 2005
Grant approval                               November 23, 2005
Effectiveness                                December 28, 2005
Closing Date                                  September 30, 2007
60



ANNEX 12: NAMES OF STAFF/CONSULTANTS WHO WORKED ON THE PROJECT
Names of staff/consultants who worked on the project:
Name                               Function
Jean Jacques Frere                 Task Team Leader, Sr. Health Specialist
Virginia Jackson                   Sr. Operations Officer/Consultant
Vasilios Demetriou                 Sr. Implementation Specialist/Consultant
Mario Zelaya                       Sr. Procurement and Environmental Specialist/Cons.
Nedim Jaganjac                     Health and Disabilities Specialist/Consultant
Goran Cerkez                       Rehabilitation Specialist/Consultant
Nazaneen Ismail Ali                Procurement Specialist/Consultant
David Webber                       Lead Finance Officer, Fiduciary Assurance
Hiroko Imamura                     Sr. Counsel
Mona el-Chami                      Financial Management Specialist
Vikram Raghavan                    Legal Counsel
Colin Scott                        Lead Social Safeguards Specialist
Mira Hong                          Operations Analyst
Emma Etori                         Language Program Assistant
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee
Name                   Function
Joseph Saba            Country Director
Akiko Maeda            Health Sector Manager
Alfred Nickesen        Manager, OPCS Representative
Nadjib Sefta           Regional Procurement Advisor
Sherif Arif            Regional Environmental and Safeguards Advisor
Aloysius Ordu          Manager, Operations Services
Samia M'sadek          Regional Financial Management Manager
Faris Hadad-Zervos     Head of Mission, World Bank Iraq Office in Amman
Kathryn Funk            Sr. Country Officer
Hadi Abushakra         Chief Counsel
David Webber           Lead Finance Officer, Fiduciary Assurance
Colin Scott             Lead Social Safeguards Specialist
Robert Bou Jaoude       Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Hiba Tahboub            Sr. Procurement Specialist
Daniel Mont            Peer Reviewer
Olusoji Adeyi          Peer Reviewer
P:\1RAQ\HD\96774\NEG\DisabilTA Jan 05 2006.doc
1/11/2006 1:34:00 PM
61



IBRD 34363
I RAQ
EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT (EDP)
o   PHASE 0 - EXISTING CENTERS
TO BE EQUIPPED & FURNISHED
o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS -  MAIN ROADS
O   PHASE 1 - NEW REHABILITATION CENTERS  GOVERNORATE CAPITALS      RAILROADS
o   PHASE 2 - NEW REHABILITATION CENTERS
WITH WORKSHOPS                     NATIONAL CAPITAL        -     GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
oE) PHASE 3 - EXISTING CENTERS TO BE    RIVERS                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RENOVATED
4   40E i  _       A2E                AAR ALE _E                             4BE
TURKEY                                  A'. 1
> - _ -* d' [G>L M jl'?l _ S, O~~~~~~~~~~~ 50                         ICu   rM,IL
I     I    I    In_Jr. 
",          I      jII                                                           I
- _ ,5^ _t "cP,   r: . . !\  'S Ir E   , . J             c                                    361N
' )                                           |  t   J ''''i ISLAMIC
SYRIAN  H: -, ''                ;t-' ;: *|;t;r'l   REPUBLIC
AYRIABN           :A                                                                     OF IRAN
REP.                     /
r ,,.-                                                                                      I - -  - \4 ...  N) _
L~~~~~
z - - ~~; r! fi a e , v  , < _i  -
-~~~~~           r   I  CJ e                      -       *    .     ,    0                    t'
y  r ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~~K          
32ti ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    t .   .> v. Diwd'niyah tt*      ->             32N
.    D   \                                    - . > ,  '~ ,' II II            /--   -;
rjAh I                  m;ih   II t }         F1         oi
r - * * l f:; / 1 r r 5 | . \.*                          -r- -
s   -  J  _;  _-  r                      \                                   . .~~~~~~~ ~  
30            . IRA         \                                                               *\  '          .----
30rq                                                                                                  --j NSAUDI ARABIA  -_-_-.---
ML J.. ._
?BrJ                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  I;  'd .  oIo.s7M~n. ~" y..-on
28S Nrvv .rZ 
40E                   42E                  4JE           '        ,E                  4dE
DECEMBER 2005



-- ---



