                                       Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001885



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-54052)



                                         ON A

             GRANT FROM THE WORLD BANK IRAQ TRUST FUND


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.5 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                        MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF IRAQ

                                        FOR AN

                     EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT



                                      July 25, 2011




Human Development Sector
MNSHD
Middle East and North Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 17, 2011)

                       Currency Unit = Iraqi Dinar
                       Iraqi Dinar 1,000 = US$0.85
                       US$1.00 = Iraqi Dinar 1,164

                              FISCAL YEAR

                         January 1 - December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DWG     Disabilities Working Group
ECOP    Environmental Codes of Practice
EDP     Emergency Disabilities Project
EHRP    Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project
ESSAF   Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
FMA     Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IPR     Independent Procurement Review
ITF     World Bank Iraq Trust Fund
MIM     Master Implementation Manual
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PMT     Project Management Team
PWD     Persons with Disability
TOT     Training of Trainers



                       Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                     Country Director: Hedi Larbi
                      Sector Director: Steen Lau Jorgensen
                      Sector Manager: Enis Baris
                 Project Team Leader: Afrah Al-Ahmadi
                    ICR Team Leader: Eileen Brainne Sullivan
                                             REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                             EMERGENCY DISABILITIES PROJECT


                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 1
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 2
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 2
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 3
  6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 3
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 3
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 4
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................... 5
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 6
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 7
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................. 8
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................................... 9
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 10
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 11
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 12
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                 Emergency
Country:            Iraq                   Project Name:
                                                                 Disabilities Project
Project ID:         P096774                L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-54052
ICR Date:           07/25/2011             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                 GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: ERL                    Grantee:
                                                                 IRAQ
Original Total
                    USD 19.50M          Disbursed Amount:        USD 16.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 16.80M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
Process         Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                       Date(s)
Concept
                04/28/2005       Effectiveness:                        11/23/2005
Review:
Appraisal:      11/17/2005       Restructuring(s):                     03/08/2009
                                 Mid-term
Approval:       11/23/2005                         04/02/2008          04/02/2008
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:          09/30/2007          12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:               Substantial
Bank Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
                    Moderately                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing        Moderately
                    Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:    Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank        Moderately         Overall Borrower Moderately
Performance:        Satisfactory       Performance:        Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                         Indicators                        Rating
Performance                             (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                               None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         Yes                               None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                       Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                 50                  100
Other social services                                  50




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction 25
Injuries and non-communicable diseases               50                    100
Other social protection and risk management          25

E. Bank Staff
Positions                At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:          Shamshad Akhtar                    Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:        Pilar Maisterra                    Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:          Enis Baris                         Akiko Maeda
Project Team Leader:     Eileen Brainne Sullivan            Jean-Jacques Frere
ICR Team Leader:         Eileen Brainne Sullivan
ICR Primary Author:      Paul Geli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to support the delivery of improved rehabilitation and
prosthetic services that reduce the burden of physical disability.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The objective of the Project is to improve access of the disabled population in the
targeted areas in Iraq to rehabilitation and prosthetic services.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                         Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                         approval          Target        Completion or
                                         documents)        Values        Target Years
                Number of disabled who have used the newly constructed and equipped
Indicator 1 :
                facilities.
Value                                                      500 clients
quantitative or 0                        N.A.              per facility 1000
Qualitative)                                               per month
Date achieved 11/01/2005                 09/30/2007        12/31/2010 12/31/2010
Comments        Target exceeded by 100 percent. For the six rehabilitation centers, the
(incl. %        average number of clients is 1,000 per center per month (see figures for
achievement) the six centers in Section 3.2).
Indicator 2 : Number of disabled who received medical aids through the Project.
Value
                                                           39,900
quantitative or 0                        N.A.                            Not available
                                                           clients
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                 09/30/2007        12/31/2010 12/31/2010
                Distribution to disabled persons is slow due to bottlenecks in MOH
Comments
                validation and allocation of medical aids to respective Directorates of
(incl. %
                Health. Monitoring and reporting capacity of MOH is very limited.
achievement)
                Number of disabled that received aids is unknown.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                         Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                         approval         Target         Completion or
                                         documents)       Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of new basic rehabilitation centers constructed.
Value
(quantitative 0                          9                6              6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                 09/30/2007       12/31/2010 12/31/2010
                Construction target met. Rehabilitation and workshop equipment, medical
Comments
                and non-medical furniture delivered and installed in the new centers.
(incl. %
                Another set of rehabilitation equipment has been delivered and installed
achievement)
                for a 7th center, Al Hakim Hospital Baghdad
Indicator 2 : Number of new prosthetic workshops constructed.
Value
(quantitative 0                         3                  2              2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                09/30/2007         12/31/2010 12/31/2010
Comments        Target met. An additional set of workshop equipment and tools has been
(incl. %        procured for a third workshop at the existing Al Hakim Hospital in
achievement) Baghdad.
Indicator 3 : Number of staff trained in the area of physical rehabilitation.
                                                           (i) 70 physio-
                                                           therapists
                                                           (regular
                                                           training) and
                                                           8
                                                                          (i) 65 hospital-
                                                           physiothera-
                                                                          based
Value                                                      pists
                                                                          physiotherapists.
(quantitative 0                         N.A.               (specialized
or Qualitative)                                            additional
                                                                          (ii) 16 hospital-
                                                           training);
                                                                          based physicians
                                                            (ii) 30
                                                            physicians
                                                            (specialized
                                                            training)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                  09/30/2007        12/31/2010 12/31/2010
                % of achievement: 93% for hosp-based physiotherapists and 53% for
Comments
                hosp-based physicians. For physicians, plans were made for training of
(incl. %
                20, but 4 did not attend due to lack of permission. MOH declined further
achievement)
                proposals for training (see section 3.2)
                Number of staff trained in the area of production and fitting of prostheses
Indicator 4 :
                and orthoses.
                                                            47 staff      59 prosthetics
                                                            trained       technicians
Value                                                       outside Iraq trained overseas
(quantitative 0                           N.A.              and 30        and 18
or Qualitative)                                             technicians technicians
                                                            trained       trained in-
                                                            locally.      country.
Date achieved 11/01/2005                  09/30/2007        12/31/2010 12/31/2010
                % of achievement: 125% for staff trained overseas and 60% for
Comments
                technicians trained locally. In-country training was dependent on training
(incl. %
                equipment being installed and materials being delivered. The training of
achievement)
                technicians is a significant achievement.
Indicator 5 : Number of facility managers trained in the area of facility management.
Value
                0                         N.A.              20 managers 15 managers
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                09/30/2007         12/31/2010 12/31/2010
Comments
                Number of medical aids (wheelchairs, crutches, walking sticks, walking
(incl. %
                frames, walking rollators, tripods) procured.
achievement)
                Number of medical aids (wheelchairs, crutches, walking sticks, walking
Indicator 6 :
                frames, walking rollators, tripods) procured.
Value
(quantitative 0                         N.A.               39,900       38,697
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                09/30/2007         12/31/2010 12/31/2010
Comments        Target basically met (percentage of achievement: 97%) # 38,697 medical
(incl. %        aids have been procured and distributed to the DOH warehouses in the
achievement) respective Governorates.
Indicator 7 : Number of quarterly progress monitoring reports.
Value
                                                                        6 semi-annual
(quantitative 0                         N.A.               18
                                                                        reports
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                09/30/2007         12/31/2010 12/31/2010
                Target basically met. Target of 18 has to be adjusted downward; at
Comments
                restructuring PMT/MOH had already submitted 7 reports and could not
(incl. %
                be expected to submit an additional 11 reports (whether quarterly or semi-
achievement)
                annual) between March 2009 and end of 2010.
Indicator 8 : Submission of Project Completion Report.
Value
(quantitative 0                         1                  1            1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/2005                09/30/2007         12/31/2010 12/31/2010
Comments
                Target met. PMT/MOH submitted a revised/final Project Completion
(incl. %
                Report in February 2011.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
      Date ISR
No.                 DO                       IP                       Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
1     06/13/2006    Satisfactory             Satisfactory             0.00
                    Moderately               Moderately
2     10/31/2006                                                      0.09
                    Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
                    Moderately               Moderately
3     05/23/2007                                                      0.33
                    Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
4     11/30/2007    Moderately               Moderately               1.36
                   Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                   Moderately              Moderately
5    05/24/2008                                                    2.02
                   Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
6    12/24/2008    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 4.15
7    05/26/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 5.85
8    12/25/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 10.55
9    05/20/2010    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 13.37
10   01/11/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 15.65
11   03/26/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 16.23


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings      Amount
              Board      at               Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring
              Approved   Restructurin     Restructurin
Date(s)                                                & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change g                g in USD
                         DO IP            millions
                                                       There were serious
                                                       implementation delays and
                                                       increases in the scope of
                                                       works and unit costs. In
                                                       addition to the revision of the
                                                       PDO, the following were
                                                       cancelled: (1) Component 1
03/08/2009    N             MS     MS     4.81
                                                       on policy development and
                                                       partnerships; (2) US$2.7
                                                       million of the Grant; and (3)
                                                       8 of the original 14 project
                                                       sites, to retain only those that
                                                       could be implemented within
                                                       the revised closing date.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Country and Sector Background. Iraq attained the status of a middle-income
country in the 1970s. Since those times, successive wars, international trade sanctions
and a state-dominated economic system have stifled growth and development and
debilitated basic infrastructure and social services. Despite the country’s rich resource
endowment, Iraq’s human development indicators had become among the lowest in the
region. At the time of appraisal, Iraq had had two political transitions, and was taking
steps toward a constitutionally elected government. Nevertheless, persistent violence had
affected most parts of the country, and continued to hinder reconstruction efforts. The
following had emerged as significant issues over the past two decades:

(i) The lack of social services and the decrease in income (per capita income, which was
around US$3,600 in the early 1980s, had fallen to about US$770 by 2001 with a slight
increase to US$940 in 2005).
(ii) Once considered one of the best in the region, the Iraqi health system had declined
significantly in terms of quality of care and resource allocations and health outcomes
were among the poorest in the region, and well below levels found in countries of
comparable income.
(iii) The many successive wars increased the burden of disability. The cumulative
number of persons suffering from physical disabilities (excluding blindness, deafness,
and disabilities resulting from chronic diseases) was estimated at 250,000 (the number of
amputees was 80,000 to 100,000 in 2002, with 80 percent from lower limb amputations,
and the number of people suffering from spinal cord damage was 8,000).
(iv) Care of the disabled had deteriorated as a result of the conflicts and mismanagement
(existing centers dedicated to the rehabilitation of disabled patients and the
manufacturing of prosthetic limbs had been looted and most of the facilities had suffered
heavy physical damage).

1.1.2 Rationale for Bank Assistance. The breakdown of community support systems
and the limited access to health services and rehabilitation services had had a devastating
effect on the disabled. Through the Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP), the
Bank had already begun to focus on supporting the recovery of the health system in Iraq.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) approached the Bank in October 2004 concerning support
to people with physical disabilities resulting from the war and related accidents. This was
an area which had obvious and direct links to the recent conflict and which could
unambiguously be considered as an urgent priority for the Government, especially
considering the continuous increase in the number of victims as a result of instability and
violence. The Project was consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s Human
Development Strategy for Iraq, including helping to stem the deterioration of health
services, in terms of infrastructure, human resources, and management. It was also in line
with the World Bank Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Department’s current
efforts to develop a strategy to support the disabled as a group of people
disproportionately represented among the world’s poorest. The Bank had a comparative


                                            1
advantage in working in conflict and emergency contexts, and it also had some
experience in dealing with disability assistance (Bosnia and Kosovo).

1.1.3 Detailed information on the context at appraisal is included in Annex 10.

The World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF)

1.1.4 In 2003, the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq (IRFFI) was
established to help donors channel their resources and coordinate their support for
reconstruction and capacity building development activities in Iraq within its priority
program. IRFFI comprises two trust funds: (i) the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF)
administered by the Bank; and (ii) the UN Development Group Iraq Trust Fund
administered by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).

1.1.5 The ITF is a multi-donor trust fund; as such, all funds are commingled in one
account. The ITF finances grants for rehabilitation/reconstruction and capacity building
technical assistance projects. The vast majority of ITF projects are implemented by Iraqi
agencies to help the Government of Iraq (GOI) develop effective institutions. To ensure
country ownership and that the ITF finances Iraq’s development priorities, the potential
recipient submits a proposed project to the Iraqi Strategic Review Board (ISRB), chaired
by the Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation. ITF-funded projects are
reviewed by the Bank Ad Hoc Advisory Committee and are approved by the Regional
Vice-President.

1.1.6 The recipient entity typically establishes a Project Management Team (PMT) to be
responsible for day-to-day project implementation. The projects are supervised by the
Bank in accordance with its policies and procedures, with the same internal controls to
ensure that funds are properly used for the purposes intended and that the objectives of
each project are achieved. Since the difficult security situation prevents Bank staff from
visiting project sites, the Bank engaged a Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) for the ITF;
the FMA verifies the physical implementation of projects and monitors compliance with
fiduciary policies, including financial management and procurement procedures.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 According to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) Grant Agreement and the
Technical Annex dated November 23, 2005, the original objective of the Project was to
support the delivery of improved rehabilitation and prosthetic services that reduce the
burden of physical disability.

1.2.2 According to the Grant Agreement, there were four key performance indicators:

(1) Policy framework for the disabled developed and adopted by Iraq.
(2) At least three non-governmental organizations (NGO) have an official agreement with
Iraq to deliver services to disabled and their families.
(3) Number of disabled persons who received prosthetic devices, medical aids and
physical therapy from rehabilitation facilities. No baseline - No target set.


                                            2
(4) The Ministry of Health (MOH) is capable of managing, supervising and monitoring
the Project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 When the Project was restructured on March 8, 2009 (first order restructuring), the
PDO was revised as follows: ―The objective of the Project is to improve access of the
disabled population in the targeted areas in Iraq to rehabilitation and prosthetic services‖.

1.3.2 The reason the PDO was revised and other changes were made is that the Project
had experienced serious delays in implementation. These delays were caused by a
number of factors, including the unstable political and security context in the country,
lack of continuity in MOH leadership and project management, lack of familiarity of the
MOH, contractors and consultants with Bank guidelines and procedures, and devaluation
of the Iraqi Dinar coupled with high domestic inflation.

1.3.3 At restructuring, the Results Monitoring Framework was revised: the four original
performance indicators included in Schedule 5 of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement were
replaced by a list of 10 performance indicators (two outcome indicators and eight output
indicators). The list included in the Restructuring Project Paper had targets for the end of
project, but the letter amending the Trust Fund Grant Agreement included only the list,
and not the targets. However, prior to the signing of the amendment letter, the draft
restructuring Project Paper and the draft amendment letter had been submitted to the
MOH for its endorsement. The 10 revised performance indicators and their achievement
are shown in the Data Sheet.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 According to the Technical Annex, the 14 facilities to be constructed/renovated and
equipped in thirteen governorates would serve the needs of up to 250,000 persons with
disability (PWD). These PWD would otherwise not have access to quality rehabilitation
services and would be denied the right to work and to lead a productive life. In addition, a
total of approximately 1.4 million Iraqis, representing the families of the disabled, would
be direct beneficiaries of the Project.

1.4.2 When the Project was revised at restructuring, it was not expected to have the same
social and economic impact on beneficiaries as originally planned because the number of
rehabilitation centers dropped significantly from 14 to 6 in six governorates only. As
revised, the Project would provide access to 500 disabled clients per month per facility
for rehabilitation services and would provide 39,900 disabled clients with medical aids.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The Project had three components:




                                             3
Component 1, or part A in the Grant Agreement: Policy Development and Partnerships
(US$0.8 million total, including contingencies). It included the development of a
comprehensive policy and legislative framework, and of partnerships between the MOH,
other ministries, and civil society in the area of disabilities.

Component 2, or part B in the Grant Agreement: Delivery of Services to Disabled
Persons (US$18.0 million total, including contingencies). The component supported: (i)
the construction of nine new rehabilitation facilities (three would have workshops for the
production and repair of prostheses and orthoses); (ii) the renovation of five existing
facilities; (iii) procurement of equipment, materials for prosthetic workshops and medical
aids; and (iv) training activities to improve the services for physical rehabilitation.

Component 3, or part C in the Grant Agreement: Project Management (US$0.7 million
total, including contingencies). Overall project coordination would be carried out by a
Project Management Team (PMT) in the MOH; responsibility for implementation of the
components would rest with the relevant departments of the MOH.

1.5.2 A detailed project description is included in Annex 11.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 Because of the political and security context, and the lack of capacity within the
MOH, the activities under component 1 (Policy Development and Partnerships) could not
be implemented within the available time frame of the Project. At restructuring on March
8, 2009, Part A (Component 1) was canceled, and parts B and C were re-numbered as
Parts A (Component 1) and B (Component 2), respectively.

1.6.2 The high domestic inflation made coverage of all the planned construction and
equipping difficult, so changes were also made to the new Component 1 for delivery of
services to persons with disability (PWD). Eight1 of the original fourteen project sites in
thirteen governorates were canceled, so that the revised component consisted of six new
rehabilitation facilities (including two facilities with prostheses and orthoses workshops)
in six governorates. Reallocated funds were used to purchase electric wheelchairs for
adults and children. These electric wheelchairs were very much in demand and were
considered a priority by MOH staff. The project revision at restructuring reduced the
scope of the investment. However, although narrower, the focus was more on the access
and availability of rehabilitation services and prosthetics to the targeted population of
disabled people to ensure that the project objectives and activities were better aligned
with the realities on the ground.

1.7 Other significant changes



1
 Two of the planned new rehabilitation facilities were dropped due to security reason, one was canceled
due to land dispute issue, and the renovation of all the five existing facilities was canceled.



                                                    4
1.7.1 Other significant changes during the project life included three extensions of the
project closing date, two amendments of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and three
reallocations of the proceeds of the Grant. Detailed information on these ―other
significant changes‖ is included in Annex 12.

1.7. 2 Although there was a significant reduction in the number of rehabilitation facilities
and workshops to be constructed/renovated, more funds were required for civil works
because of increases in the scope of works and unit costs. This was partly compensated
by a reduction in the amount for goods due to the cancellation of the purchase of
prosthesis and orthosis materials. There were significant savings in consultants’ services,
but the amounts for training and operating costs were higher than the original estimates.
Finally, at restructuring, great care was taken to retain in the Project only the facilities
and activities that could be completed within the revised closing date; as a result, an
amount of US$2.7 million was cancelled from the ITF Grant.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Soundness of the Background Analysis. The original PDO was to support the
delivery of improved rehabilitation and prosthetic services that reduce the burden of
physical disability. The Iraq Transitional Government had placed high priority on
improving its services for the rehabilitation of PWD and their re-entry into productive
life. A reform of the physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services was recognized as
one of the priority areas of the MOH. In November 2004, the MOH had prepared a draft
national strategy for the physically disabled which included an outline of planned
interventions to improve the quality of and access to care for PWD and identified the key
challenges for those interventions. Main areas of the plan were identified as: (i) medical
rehabilitation of individuals who have suffered serious physical injuries; and (ii)
psychological rehabilitation of both the individual and the community involved. The
Technical Annex mentioned that the Project, which would meet only a very small portion
of the real needs in the area of medical rehabilitation, could be followed by a more
comprehensive project, provided sufficient resources and donor partnerships and support
were available, and the security context in the country improved.

2.1.2 Assessment of Project Design. This Project was prepared in accordance with
Emergency Recovery Assistance Procedures (Operational Policy 8.50)2. Contrary to what
is stated in the Technical Annex, project preparation did not take into account the main
lesson from the Bank’s recent experience in post-conflict countries, namely that for
emergency recovery projects a simple project design that can be quickly and visibly
implemented is most effective3. With its mix of (a) policy development/partnerships, and
(b) civil works rehabilitation/construction for fourteen facilities in thirteen governorates,

2
  OP 8.50 was replaced in March 2007 by OP 8.00 on ―Rapid Responses to Crises and Emergencies.‖
3
 On the other hand, the Project included capacity building for the implementing entities in order to
improve their ability to implement programs, which is another important lesson of the Bank experience in
post-conflict countries.


                                                    5
provision of equipment and training activities, the original project scope was ambitious,
considering the prevailing security conditions and the client capacity. The
implementation period of 22 months was also unrealistic. With the wisdom of hindsight,
the original project scope and implementation time frame were not tailored to the realities
on the ground. The section on Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry discusses
the political economy context of project preparation and explains why certain choices
were made at appraisal.

2.1.3 Another issue is the inclusion of the policy component in the emergency project.
The Ad Hoc Committee Appraisal/Negotiations Review Meeting4 held on October 27,
2005 acknowledged that ―the Project will be substantially a physical rehabilitation project
with the policy component limited to creating an enabling environment that will
contribute to eventual integration of disabled people in society5‖. The project was
designed primarily to support immediate needs for physical construction, renovation and
equipping of the rehabilitation centers and workshops and staff training as a first step in
supporting the needs of PWD. It was understood that the lack of progress in the policy
development component would not jeopardize the successful completion of the project.
The assumption that MOH would be interested in implementing activities which aimed to
enhance partnerships with NGOs was no longer valid with the changes in MOH
leadership in the early stages of project implementation. On balance, the decision to
include a policy component in the project design was not a good one.

2.1 4 With respect to the original Component 2 on the delivery of services to disabled
persons, the Technical Annex listed the facilities to be constructed or rehabilitated and
included procurement plans for goods and consultant services that were not detailed 6 and
showed global costs that turned out to be underestimated. The Project was to be designed
and implemented within the framework of the excellent Master Implementation Manual
(MIM) developed by the Bank to be used by Iraqi Ministries for all ITF-financed
projects, and of a specific Project Implementation Manual (PIM) for the Project. No PIM
had been prepared for the Project before project approval, but according to a dated
covenant in the Grant Agreement it was to be prepared by February 28, 2006.

2.1.5 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was another weak point of the project design.
The focus on output indicators made sense given the short time-line and the urgent nature
of the operation. However, arrangements for M&E were not described in the Technical
Annex7, and the only indicator for the delivery of services to the disabled (i.e., the
number of disabled beneficiaries) had no baseline8 and no target.

4
  This was the equivalent of what is now the decision meeting.
5
  The full participation of PWD in society would include access to education and the labor force as well as
participation in decision making.
6
  This is in contrast with the Technical Annex for the previous health emergency project (the Emergency
Health Rehabilitation Project - EHRP) which included detailed lists of medical equipment, furniture and
drugs to be purchased and delivered.
7
  The Bank Task Team had to use a template for the Technical Annex which did not include a section for
M&E.
8
  Since the Government at that time wanted to list all physically disabled and base its policy on physical
instead of functional disabilities, the absence of a baseline may not have been a bad thing.


                                                     6
2.1.6 Government Commitment. When the MOH approached the Bank in October 2004
for support to PWD, this was clearly a priority for the Government, considering the
continuous increase in the number of people with physical disabilities as a result of the
prevailing violence. The Project was also approved by the Iraq Strategic Review Board.
Responsibility for disability services had just been transferred from the Ministry of
Defense to the MOH, and MOH wanted to build the necessary capacities in this area.
Government commitment was strong at the time the Project was appraised and the Grant
was approved.

2.1.7 Assessment of Risks. In designing the Project, the Bank was fully aware of the
high security and fiduciary risks and took reasonable actions to mitigate these risks.
According to the Technical Annex, which included a detailed and candid discussion on
risks, the Project would be implemented in a high-risk environment. The main risks were
related to the unstable political environment and the deterioration of security conditions,
making access by contractors to sites and supervision difficult. To mitigate these risks,
procurement and disbursement arrangements were developed to make implementation as
straightforward as possible, and supervision would be undertaken by independent
consultants and a Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) on behalf of the Bank. Security
conditions turned out to be much worse than expected originally, but generally the
mitigation measures proposed appeared adequate at the design stage.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 The implementation arrangements for the Project were basically similar to those
being followed under the EHRP, taking into consideration the specific activities under the
Project and the hurdles being faced during the implementation of the EHRP.

2.2.2 The main factor outside the control of Government or implementing agencies that
influenced project implementation and ultimately the project outcomes was the critical
security situation in the country, which had a major impact on all aspects of life. The ITF
Grant was approved, signed and became effective at a time when security conditions in
the country had already begun to deteriorate. The situation remained extremely fragile for
about two years, during which the MOH was virtually non-functioning.
Ownership/commitment greatly diminished due to the lack of security in many parts of
the country, which made it difficult for MOH staff and contractors to move about in the
country and carry out their assignments.

2.2.3 The following factors subject to Government control influenced project
implementation:

   a) The volatile political situation during the transitional stage in establishing the new
      Iraqi Government, and the intense political struggle and instability within the
      MOH. The continued sectarian conflict had a major impact on the MOH. There
      were frequent changes of Ministers and Deputy Ministers.



                                            7
    b) The lack of capacity within the MOH to manage project implementation, which
       was made worse by the security situation and the consequent loss of staff. Staffing
       of the PMT was unstable and the PMT staff needed a significant amount of
       training because of their limited experience in project management and Bank
       policies and procedures.
    c) The only part of the PIM9 that was prepared dealt with financial management and
       disbursements. The Project benefited from an excellent MIM developed by the
       Bank to be used by Iraqi Ministries for all ITF-financed projects. However, a
       complete PIM would have provided more details on project components and
       might have facilitated their implementation.
    d) Difficulties in recruiting good consultants, particularly for design and supervision
       services for facility rehabilitation.
    e) The weak capacity of the private sector due to years of isolation, wars and the
       security environment.
    f) Recruitment of an international procurement advisor; cooperation between the
       advisor and the PMT produced better results in procurement.
    g) Inability of the Bank Task Team to visit the country and of the PMT to visit the
       project sites. However, this shortcoming was offset somewhat by the work of the
       FMA.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 M&E design. In this emergency Project to be implemented quickly in a difficult
country context of post-conflict, or even in-conflict, the focus on outputs was the right
approach. The Ad Hoc Committee Appraisal/Negotiations Review Meeting held on
October 27, 2005 decided that ―the M&E indicators for the project would measure project
outputs, but would not measure outcome and impact because of the short timeframe of
the project. Instead, the indicators would reflect the fact that this project is a pilot activity
that could be scaled up through future support‖. However, the indicator for the number of
PWD who were to receive prosthetic devices, medical aids and physical therapy from
rehabilitation facilities had no quantified targets. Also, the indicator on MOH’s capability
to manage, supervise and monitor the project was somewhat vague and difficult to
measure. The arrangements for monitoring and evaluation were not described in the
Technical Annex. Although the PMT did not include a specific M&E Specialist, the
M&E functions were to be carried out by the PMT Technical Coordinator who was
responsible for monitoring project progress.



9
  According to A(a) of Schedule 4 of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the MOH should have prepared, no
later than February 28, 2006, a PIM setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria
required for the Project, including the technical, financial, environmental, social and operational
arrangements for the carrying out of the Project. The PIM is mentioned in several sections of the Technical
Annex.



                                                      8
2.3.2 M&E implementation. During implementation, the Bank Task Team helped the
MOH/PMT Team to monitor the implementation of the project components through the
preparation of detailed output monitoring tables for each rehabilitation facility and
workshop. This is important for a project focused on outputs. The Technical Coordinator
left the PMT in early 2006, and subsequently, the Bank recommended that the MOH
contract an M&E Specialist for the Project, but this did not occur. Also, on many
occasions, the Bank drew the attention of senior MOH officials to the need to track the
project achievements more closely in terms of improvements in access.

2.3.3 M&E utilization. Monitoring tables were prepared and used by the PMT to
monitor the implementation of the component for delivery of services to PWD. It is not
known whether M&E data were evaluated or used to inform decision-making and
resource allocation at the ministry level.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Detailed information on ―Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance‖ is included in
Annex 13. The main points are as follows:

   a) An FMA engaged by the Bank helped the Bank to monitor physical
      delivery/progress and the Recipient’s compliance with financial management and
      procurement procedures. The FMA visited all EDP sites throughout Iraq every
      month and carried out physical verification with digital photographs of ongoing
      works and goods supplied and the production of a fact sheet for each contract,
      alerting the Bank to deficiencies in quality and implementation. The FMA
      performance demonstrates that, in contexts where the Bank team cannot carry out
      normal supervision missions, the Bank can mitigate risks for its program by
      employing a monitoring agent to monitor physical implementation of projects and
      verify that funds are spent for the purpose intended and in accordance with Bank
      rules.

   b) The Bank prior-reviewed over 90% of all procurement under the Project, and the
      remaining contracts were reviewed by the FMA. An Independent Procurement
      Review (IPR) carried out in 2009 as a ―desk review‖ commented that record
      keeping and filing by PMT were not up to standards, and identified a few
      shortcomings for which satisfactory explanations could be provided. Since the
      Bank Task Team made full use of the FMA which carried out 100 percent site
      inspection for all goods and works delivered, the FMA function was an essential
      part of the procurement supervision process. The Bank Task Team followed up on
      the Action Plan proposed by the IPR. During implementation, the PMT/MOH
      recruited an international procurement advisor. The PMT, in consultation with the
      Bank procurement staff and the international procurement advisor, performed
      well in finding practical solutions to many difficult procurement issues. Project
      procurement under Bank Guidelines contributed to introducing transparency and
      breaking the existing monopoly by allowing other suppliers to enter the Iraq
      market.



                                          9
   c) The financial management arrangements for the Project were similar to those
      being followed under the EHRP. Once authorized by the MOH, payments above
      the threshold of US$10,000 were made by the Bank directly into the bank account
      of the contractor, supplier or consultant. There was no special/designated account.
      Payments below the threshold of US$10,000 were made by the MOH from its
      own resources and were reimbursed, on a periodic basis, by the Bank to the MOH
      upon presentation of proof of payment and a signed withdrawal application. The
      absence of a special/designated account was not as big a problem as for the
      EHRP, because the PMT/MOH managed to establish and maintain throughout the
      EDP life a project account for payments of small amounts to avoid shortages and
      delays in payments and reimbursements. The EHRP had experienced delays in
      payments in Iraqi Dinars (IQD), but this was not a problem for the EDP because
      only one contract was denominated in IQD; there was no problem with payments
      made in US Dollars. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were satisfactory and
      were submitted in a timely manner. Generally, audit reports were submitted on
      time and were unqualified.

   d) With respect to Safeguards, the Project had an environmental category rating of
      ―B‖. Impacts would be those associated mainly with construction of new
      rehabilitation facilities. Based on the Environmental and Social Screening and
      Assessment Framework (ESSAF), the following standards were applied during
      implementation: (i) inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice (ECOP)
      in the bid documents for civil works; (ii) use of Safeguard Procedures for
      Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts; and (iii) use of the
      Checklist of likely Environmental and Social Impacts of Subprojects. There was
      no involuntary relocation of populations or expropriation of privately owned land,
      and no cultural finds were discovered during excavations. Although compliance
      with the environmental safeguards was the responsibility of the MOH’s
      Maintenance Department, the PMT designated two of its staff to act as
      Environmental Safeguards Focal Points, to follow up at the project sites with the
      consultants and contractors to ensure that they were adhering to their obligations
      regarding the environmental safeguards. Construction activities were closely
      monitored. Checklist forms for all the project sites were completed by the
      Environmental Safeguards Focal Points and were submitted to the Bank during
      the April 2010 implementation support mission.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The delivery of health services by the MOH is a continuous operation independent
of the duration of any project, so that there is not really a need for explicit transition
arrangements.

2.5.2 The new facilities have been completed and equipped, and the trained doctors and
physiotherapists are back on site and available. The rehabilitation centers and workshops
are operational, and their recurrent costs are met from the MOH operational budget.




                                           10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The objectives, design and implementation of the Project were and remain highly
relevant to Iraq’s priorities to rebuild its essential infrastructure and services.
Unfortunately, with the ongoing insecurity and violence, the need for more effective
rehabilitation facilities for PWD continues to exist at present. The objectives are also
consistent with the Interim Strategy Notes (ISN) for Iraq. The third ISN, which is dated
February 19, 2009, covers the period FY10-FY11, and envisages three thematic areas of
engagement, the first theme being continuing support to ongoing reconstruction and
socio-economic recovery efforts. That theme responds to the goals of the International
Compact with Iraq which are related to Iraq’s reconstruction and recovery efforts.
Activities under this theme support Government policies and public investments that will
help restore and modernize Iraq’s physical and human capital. According to the ISN, the
Bank program will be decided through Annual Business Planning exercises to support
reforms and/or sectors for which ―champions‖ have been identified, and when there is a
commitment to engage with the Bank Group to achieve concrete results on the ground.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 Since the Project was formally restructured (first order restructuring), the ICR will
assess the project outcome ―before‖ and ―after‖ restructuring, in accordance with the
Bank ICR Guidelines.

Achievement of PDO before restructuring
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.2.2 Original Component 1 on Policy Development and Partnerships did not progress
beyond some initial support to the establishment of the Disabilities Working Group
(DWG) whose members included representatives of the Ministries of Health, Labor and
Social Affairs, Education and Defense. No policy framework was developed10, and MOH
did not enter into any agreement with NGOs to deliver services for the disabled and their
families. However, the Project contributed to a dialogue on the definition of disability
(medical aspects versus other aspects) and informed decisions on the eligibility of the
different categories of disabled.

3.2.3. Even before restructuring, Component 2 on the Delivery of Services to Disabled
Persons had been substantially reduced for a variety of reasons, including security
concerns, escalating costs and increased scope of work for the facilities. At the time of
restructuring, all the originally planned training under the project was completed. In
addition, almost all items on the original list of medical aids had been procured, civil

10
   The Bank team did put considerable effort into obtaining support from the Italian Government to help the
Government develop the legal and policy framework for disabilities. Unfortunately, the dialogue between the various
parties broke down before engagement was achieved.




                                                       11
works construction for the facilities remaining in the Project was well underway (with
one contract completed and the remaining contracts expected to be completed by October
2009), and progress had also been made on the procurement of equipment.

Achievement of PDO after restructuring
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.2.4 The restructuring was undertaken to ensure that the Project would meet the revised
PDO and implement activities successfully within the project timeframe. The revised key
performance indicators included two outcome indicators (number of disabled using the
facilities and number of disabled who received medical aids), but also included eight
output indicators. In the revised PDO wording, the terms ―to improve access of the
disabled population in the targeted areas to rehabilitation and prosthetic services‖ meant
ensuring the availability of equipped rehabilitation facilities with workshops and trained
staff as well as the availability of medical aids. The output indicators are thus proxy
indicators for access to services. This is in line with Iraq’s priorities to rebuild its
essential infrastructure and services, and with the ISN approach.

3.2.5 The Data Sheet includes information on the indicator values at completion and
Annex 2 provides detailed information on all outputs. The Project’s achievements have
been substantial in terms of both the number of PWD benefitting from the Project and the
availability of services.

(1) Use of the facilities. Target exceeded by 100 percent for the number of PWD who
have used the newly constructed and equipped facilities. For the six rehabilitation centers,
the average number of clients is 1,000 per center per month, compared to the target of
500 clients per center per month.

(2) Availability and distribution of medical aids:
   i.  Target basically met for the procurement of medical aids (wheelchairs,
       crutches, walking sticks, walking frames, walking collators, and tripods);
       compared to the target of 39,900, 38,697 medical aids (97 percent) were procured
       and distributed to the warehouses of the Directorates of Health in the respective
       Governorates.
  ii. Number of disabled receiving medical aids. Distribution of medical aids to
       disabled persons is a slow process because of bottlenecks in MOH validation and
       allocation of the medical aids to the respective Directorates of Health. Moreover,
       MOH has very limited monitoring and reporting capacity so that, as of this
       writing, the total number of disabled that received medical aids is not known.

(3) New rehabilitation facilities and workshops. Construction target met. The six
new basic rehabilitation centers and the three prosthetic workshops were constructed.
Rehabilitation and workshop equipment, as well as medical and non-medical furniture,
were delivered and installed in the new facilities which are operational. An additional set




                                            12
of rehabilitation and workshop equipment was procured for a seventh center, the existing
Al Hakim Hospital in Bagdad.

(4) Staff training. One target exceeded, one target almost met and three targets not
met, but with explanations:
    i. Management training: 15 center managers (target: 20) were trained overseas.
  ii. Training in physical rehabilitation: 65 hospital-based physiotherapists (target: 78)
       and 16 hospital-based physicians (target: 30) were trained overseas.
  iii. Training in the production and fitting of prostheses and orthoses: 59 prosthetics
       workshop technicians (target: 47) were trained overseas, and 18 technicians
       (target: 30) were trained locally. Since there were a limited number of qualified
       prosthetics technicians in Iraq, this training was an important project achievement.

3.2.6 As discussed in Annex 2, there are valid reasons why some targets were not met.
Eight physiotherapists and ten physicians who had received regular training on physical
rehabilitation were also scheduled for some additional specialized training, but MOH
declined to accept the proposal from the firm that was selected because of its high cost
and logistical problems. The training was canceled due to insufficient time to select an
alternative training provider. As to the in-country training of technicians in the
production and fitting of prostheses and orthoses, it could not take place until the training
equipment and material had been delivered and installed. Three technicians received
training-of-trainer (TOT) training overseas; the fees for the training courses were covered
by the MOH budget, and project funds financed the per diems and accommodations. On
their return to Iraq, the three technicians provided training locally to 18 technicians who
were to then train their colleagues in the rehabilitation centers and workshops.

3.2.7 All the completed rehabilitation facilities and workshops have been handed over to
the MOH and are operational. The table below shows the numbers of patients for the six
rehabilitation facilities.

                    New Rehabilitation Centers             Average
                                                          Number of
                                                           patients
                                                         (per month)

                    Amara                                    900
                    Basrah                                  1,500
                    Dewaniyah                                750
                    Karbala                                 1,050
                    Kut                                     1,050
                    Samawa                                   750
                    Total for Six Centers                   6,000

                    Average per Center                      1,000




                                             13
3.2.8 Other achievements. The Project supported redefining the roles and responsibilities
within Government for disabilities, i.e., the shift in disability services delivery from the
Ministry of Defense to the MOH, including improved transparency. That was a
significant achievement.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Not Rated

3.3.1 During preparation/appraisal, the lack of reliable statistics, the limited economic
information, and the speed with which the Project was prepared prevented the carrying
out of a detailed financial and economic analysis, a constraint in such operations. PWD
living within the catchment areas of the six new rehabilitation facilities now have access
to high quality rehabilitation and prosthetic services that otherwise would not have been
adequately delivered. This facilitates their re-entry into productive life. However, no
economic evaluation of the Project has been carried out upon completion, and none is
planned. Economic evaluation is an area where Iraqi expertise is not strong, so that if
such an evaluation were to be done, it would have to be carried out by Bank staff; this is
not possible for the time being because of the security situation. Annex 3 provides a more
detailed discussion of efficiency.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.4.1 During project implementation, the country faced an extremely difficult security
environment which had a major impact on all aspects of life. Both the Bank Task Team
and PMT staff worked under conditions of great danger and stress. In addition, years of
isolation and instability led to weak implementing capacity by the Government (including
weak capacity to make decisions) and the private sector. Thus, the Iraq context is a
unique situation that needs to be acknowledged and considered in any evaluation of the
Project.

3.4.2 The Project’s objectives, design and implementation were and remain highly
relevant to current country priorities and the ISN. The achievement of the PDO is rated
―Moderately Unsatisfactory‖ before restructuring and ―Moderately Satisfactory‖ after
restructuring. Since the PDO was formally revised (first order restructuring, approved by
the Regional Vice-President) when only US$4.81 million (about 29 percent of the revised
US$16.80 million grant amount) was disbursed, the overall outcome rating must take into
account the achievements before and after restructuring11. As shown in the Table below,
the weighted value of 3.70 corresponds to a rating between ―Moderately Satisfactory‖
and ―Moderately Unsatisfactory‖, but closer to ―Moderately Satisfactory‖. The overall
rating is rounded to ―Moderately Satisfactory‖; this is the same rating as the rating for
progress towards achievement of the PDO in the last ISR.



11
     ICR Guidelines – OPCS – August 2006 (last updated on 2/9/2007) - Page 25 and Appendix B.




                                                        14
                                            Against          Against        Overall
                                         original PDOs       revised
                                                              PDOs
          1. Rating                       Moderately       Moderately           -
                                         Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory
          2.   Rating value*                   3                 4           -
          3.   Weight**                      29%               71%        100%
          4.   Weighted value                0.87              2.84        3.71
          5.   Final rating (rounded)                                  Moderately
                                                                       Satisfactory
      *Highly Satisfactory = 6; Satisfactory = 5; Moderately Satisfactory = 4;
      Moderately Unsatisfactory = 3; Unsatisfactory = 2; and Highly
      Unsatisfactory = 1.
      **% disbursed before/after PDO change

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 As a group, disabled people are disproportionately represented among the world’s
poorest. The Project may have had a significant poverty reduction impact, not only for
PWD, but also for their entire families. Given the high unemployment rates and poor
community services, becoming disabled poses a serious risk for the entire family to slip
into poverty. Although statistics are not available, it is likely that the Project facilitated
the re-entry of disabled persons into productive life.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The Bank was the only development partner that worked through Iraqi institutions,
which did help to build institutional capacity and was appreciated by Iraqi officials.
Following on the work initiated under the EHRP, the Project continued to build the
technical and management capacity of the MOH and PMT. Through on-the-job training
and interaction with Bank and FMA staff, PMT capacity was strengthened. Now that the
PMT is dissolved, the PMT staff who did receive considerable training through the
project in procurement, financial management and project management, have brought
their new skills to other parts of the MOH. The increase in the number of skilled medical
technicians and prosthetics technicians in the area of disabilities has strengthened the
MOH technically.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3 The successful completion of the EHRP and the EDP has paved the way for the
Bank’s future dialogue with the Iraqi authorities on health. Albeit as short term responses
to emergencies, these projects have an added value beyond project outcomes and outputs.
They have a demonstration effect, proving the reliability of partnership with the client;
they provide the foundation for a subsequent engagement on a longer term basis.


                                             15
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

4.1 The rehabilitation facilities and workshops have been built and equipped, doctors and
technicians have been trained, and the centers are operational with recurrent costs met by
MOH budget. Based only on these considerations, the risk to development outcome could
be assessed as ―low‖. However, the situation in Iraq remains fragile, and there is a risk of
collapse for lack of security. The ICR rates the overall risk to development outcome - i.e.,
the risk that development outcomes will not be maintained – as ―Significant.‖

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank strategy in Iraq was to ensure Iraqi ownership and strengthen institutional
capacity by financing operations that are implemented by Iraqi Ministries and other
recipient entities. The Project was prepared as part of the interim strategy of the World
Bank in addressing the pressing needs of the sector and according to the emergency
recovery assistance procedures (OP 8.50). It was prepared in seven months. The main
concern was to obtain concrete results and to obtain them quickly. The original PDO (to
support the delivery of improved rehabilitation and prosthetic services that reduce the
burden of physical disability) rightly emphasized outputs. During preparation/appraisal,
the Bank did a good job in focusing on outputs and on assessing risks.

5.1.2 When rating the quality at entry, one has to keep in mind the history and context of
the project preparation, in addition to assessing the project design. The need to move
quickly to prepare the Project (using the Bank’s rapid response procedures), and the
reality of having to appraise the Project from a distance required the Bank team to take a
calculated risk of moving ahead with a best-case scenario design. When the Project was
designed, Iraq was at the edge of breaking into several ethnic states, with political
instability and fragmentation of leadership. The selection of fourteen sites for
rehabilitation facilities in thirteen governorates was a high risk, but selecting a smaller
number would have been politically difficult. Another point worth noting is that the Bank
first engaged with the MOH in preparing a project on disabilities at a time when the
responsibility for disability had been recently transferred from the Ministry of Defense to
the MOH, and the MOH leadership itself was committed to building the ministry’s
capacity to provide improved services to the disabled. A few months into project
implementation, the political environment changed completely, and the new leadership of
the MOH had a different agenda which did not include serious commitment to the Project
or to working with the Bank.


                                            16
5.1.3 As discussed in Section 2.1, with its mix of policy development/partnerships and
civil works/equipment for fourteen facilities in thirteen governorates, the original project
scope was ambitious. Including a policy component in such an emergency operation in a
fluid political environment was a calculated risk on the part of the Bank and, on balance,
that decision was not a good one. The implementation period of 22 months was
unrealistic. The Project was not fully prepared when it was approved by the Regional
Vice-President (RVP). Project costs turned out to be significantly underestimated.
Finally, the arrangements for monitoring and evaluation were not detailed and the main
output indicator (number of PWD benefitting from the Project) had no quantified target.
Based on this relatively low quality work, a rating of ―Unsatisfactory‖ would be justified
for the Bank performance. However, taking into consideration the history and context of
project preparation, the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated
―Moderately Unsatisfactory.‖

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.4 The Bank Task Team for this Project worked under difficult conditions with great
stress. Its ability to respond to implementation problems was constrained by the security
conditions on the ground which prohibited on-site supervision, and the team had to
operate from Amman, with the PMT and MOH staff traveling to Amman. Also, Bank
efforts were not productive when the MOH was nearly paralyzed for more than two
years. To substitute for the lack of on-site supervision, the task team made good use of
the FMA, which worked on all ITF-financed projects, by maintaining close
communication with the FMA personnel during implementation and inviting them to
participate in all supervision missions.

5.1.5 Management gave high priority to this Project, and invested a great deal of time in
assisting the task team. The budget was appropriately large for this difficult project
(US$317,000 for lending and US$730,000 for the five years of supervision). There has
been some continuity in staffing, with an acceptable skills mix. In aide memoires and
ISRs, the candor, degree of detail, and meticulous reporting of project progress or lack
thereof were of high quality. In the ISRs, the ratings for DO and IP were appropriate. The
Bank Task Team was very pro-active in dealing with the implementation problems; for
example, early on, the Bank suggested the cancelation of the first component which was
not performing at all. Overall, the Bank Task Team paid good attention to financial
management, procurement and safeguards, with extensive coverage in the aide memoires
and ISRs. Through the preparation of detailed output monitoring tables for each
rehabilitation facility, the Bank Task Team helped the MOH/PMT Team monitor project
implementation. Regarding the restructuring, because of the continual changes in MOH
leadership, the opportunity for a dialogue with the counterpart did not present itself until
late in the project implementation, when the Bank team was able to reach agreement with
the MOH on downsizing the project, through cancellation of US$2.7 million, to make it
more achievable.




                                            17
5.1.6 The Bank introduced great flexibility in moving the Project forward, despite
difficult circumstances, and eventually engaged more productively with the MOH in the
latter part of 2008. The quality of supervision is rated ―Satisfactory.‖

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.7 The rating for quality at entry is in the unsatisfactory range and the rating for
quality of supervision is in the satisfactory range. In accordance with the Bank’s ICR
Guidelines, the rating for Overall Bank Performance depends on the outcome rating.
Since the outcome is in the satisfactory range, Overall Bank Performance is rated as
―Moderately Satisfactory.‖

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.1 During preparation and appraisal, the Iraq Transitional Government had placed high
priority on improving its services for the rehabilitation of PWD and their re-entry into
productive life. After 2003, the responsibility for disabilities shifted from the Ministry of
Defense to the MOH; ―disabilities‖ was therefore a new responsibility for MOH. In 2005,
the political and security situation had already begun to deteriorate, and soon the MOH
was engulfed and engaged in the sectarian conflict and barely functioned for a prolonged
period (up to the end of 2007). The MOH leadership was seriously affected by the
political context, and this resulted in periodic gaps in leadership at the Minister and
Deputy Minister level. Even when present, they were often unable or unwilling to
provide the leadership required for project implementation. This lack of effective
leadership is one of the reasons why Component 1 on Policy Development and
Partnerships did not progress beyond initial support for the establishment of the DWG.
One needs to acknowledge that the PMT staff and the FMA faced very dangerous
situations such as: death threats, kidnappings, the constant potential for random harm, or
to be discovered as being associated with an international organization; yet, most still
worked displaying great courage and dedication during this period, literally risking their
lives (in 2006, the Deputy Minister of Health was kidnapped and has never been seen
again).

5.2.2 Starting in late 2007, with the appointment of new leadership in the MOH, the
Project began to be implemented more smoothly, due to the increased attention of the
Ministry leadership (both the Minister and the Deputy Minister for Donor Affairs) and
the stability and growing effectiveness of the PMT which, by this point, had gained
experience in project management.

5.2.3 The positive role of the PMT (which was a requirement for ITF-financed projects)
is an important feature of the Project. With Bank support, the MOH/PMT Team was able
to monitor the implementation of the project components on the basis of detailed output
monitoring tables for each rehabilitation facility. On the other hand, going beyond the


                                             18
focus on outputs, the MOH/PMT was not able during the project life to satisfactorily
track the project outcomes with respect to access and quality of services.

5.2.4 Because of the instability within the MOH during the 2005-2007 period and the
lack of security in the country, it took five years (and not 22 months, as planned) to
complete the project. But, in the end, the revised Project was satisfactorily completed
despite all the problems and difficulties.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.5 The implementing agency was the MOH. Since the MOH is part of the
Government, the assessment of its performance is included in 5.2 (a) above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.6 The Government’s implementation performance has varied over the five-year
project period. Because of the very fragile political and security context, the Government
performed poorly in the early years of the Project. With the increased stability in the
MOH leadership, the increased capacity of the PMT in project management and the
significant improvement in the PMT’s performance, the situation improved in the last
two years of the Project. However, the disbanding of the full PMT before the Project was
completed was another sign of the Government’s low commitment to the Project. In view
of the deterioration of MOH oversight at critical phases in the Project, the Overall
Recipient Performance is rated ―Moderately Unsatisfactory.‖

6. Lessons Learned

(1) Giving more time for a solid preparation work would save time in
implementation. The Project was designed to provide rehabilitation services as a matter
of urgency. Speeding up the preparation process does not always allow for developing
some project aspects in details. Experience from many countries shows that
implementation delays during the early years are common, especially with recipients that
are not familiar with Bank requirements and procedures, and that the preparation process
often spills over into the first years of implementation.

(2) Project design needs to take into consideration the particular characteristics of
the country, aiming not necessarily for the assumed best practice but for the best fit.
The Project was designed in 2005 based on similar projects financed by the Bank in other
countries. With the many years of isolation and the current lack of security and political
stability, the context in Iraq was different. At the design stage, it is necessary to involve
the client fully in the discussions and studies to identify the project’s essential
requirements.

 (3) An emergency project to provide disability assistance should not have a policy
component.


                                             19
(4) In fragile states, the design of emergency projects in conflict-affected situations
should be very simple, manageable in scope and suitable to the context and should
include satisfactory M&E arrangements, with a primary focus on outputs. The Bank
should always assume low institutional capacity and high turnover in a conflict, post-
conflict, fragile situation. The Bank should support the counterparts in establishing an
M&E system to ensure effective project oversight; Bank support for monitoring outputs
may be very valuable to project management.

(5) In contexts where normal supervision missions are not possible, the Bank can
mitigate risks for its program by recruiting an FMA to help in monitoring physical
implementation of projects and verifying that funds are spent for the purpose intended
and in accordance with Bank rules. The Bank Task Team should keep close
communication with the monitoring agent during implementation, and invite the
monitoring agent to participate in all supervision missions. This has been good practice
for building the capacity of the PMT.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

None

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                          20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

  (a) Project Cost by Component

Components                      Appraisal       Estimate      Actual/Latest    Actual/Latest
                                Estimate        Revised at      Estimate       estimate as a
                                              restructuring                    percentage of
                              (USD million)   (USD million)   (USD million)     Appraisal
1. Policy Development and
Partnerships                      0.75              0.00            0.00           0.00
2. Delivery of Services to
Disabled Persons                  18.04             (1)           16.27            90%

3. Project Management              0.71             (1)             0.43           61%

Total Baseline Costs              19.50            16.80          16.70            86%

Physical Contingencies (2)         0.00                             0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies (2)            0.00                             0.00           0.00

Total Project Costs               19.50            16.80          16.70            86%

Project Preparation Costs          0.00                             0.00           0.00

Total Financing Required          19.50            16.80          16.70            86%

  (1) The Restructuring Project Paper did not include the revised costs by component.
  (2) Contingencies were included in the total costs.


  (b) Financing

Source of Funds                 Type of         Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                              Cofinancing       Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
                                              (USD million)   (USD million)
Government                        N/A              0.00            0.00            0.00
World Bank Iraq Trust Fund        N/A            19.50           16.70             86%




                                              21
      Annex 1 (continued) - Actual Costs of the Revised Components

      The table below provides more detailed information on the actual costs of the revised
      components:


Revised Components                                                  Actual Costs (US$ million)

Revised Component 1- Delivery of Services to Disabled
Persons
New Rehabilitation Centers
Design and supervision services                                 0.62
Construction of six new rehabilitation centers                  6.00
Sub-total new rehabilitation centers                                           6.62
Equipment, Medical Aids and Materials
Rehabilitation Equipment                                        1.66
Workshop Equipment                                              1.50
Medical Aids                                                    4.67
Training Materials                                              0.16
Sub-total equipment, medical aids and materials                                7.99
Training
Overseas Training                                               1.64
In-country training                                             0.03
Sub-total training                                                             1.66
Sub-total Component 1                                                                         16.27

Revised Component 2 – Project Management
Equipment                                                       0.03
PMT Consultants                                                 0.06
Capacity building for the PMT                                     -
External Audit                                                  0.06
Operating Costs                                                 0.37
Sub-total Component 2                                                                            0.43

TOTAL                                                                                         16.70




                                                 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

When the project was restructured and the original Component 1 on policy development
and partnerships was canceled in March 2009, the following proposed contracts were
canceled: (i) national and international consultants for the DWG; (ii)
conferences/workshops with NGOs; (iii) service contracts with NGOs; and (iv) public
awareness campaigns.

This Annex will discuss the outputs for the revised components.

Revised Component 1. Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons (appraisal estimate:
US$18.04 million; actual cost: US$16.27 million)

New Rehabilitation Centers (appraisal estimate: US$5.63 million; actual cost: US$6.62
million)

Design and Supervision Services (appraisal estimate: US$0.85 million – actual cost:
US$0.62 million). Of the 14 civil works packages, only six were retained in the project.
Design and supervision services for the six centers were contracted to four firms.
Regarding the eight centers that were canceled, no consultancy was needed for the four
centers that were cancelled early on in the project; for the other four centers that were
canceled later, consultancy services were provided only for the design and the
supervision parts of these contracts were cancelled. The final cost of design and
supervision services is about US$0.62 million.

Construction (appraisal estimate: US$4.78 million; actual cost: US$6 million). Of the
original 14 construction packages, the following 8 were cancelled (figures in parentheses
are appraisal estimates):

          Baquba New Rehab Center (US$0.36 million)
          Ramadi New Rehab Center (US$0.36 million)
          Karkh New Rehab Center and Workshop (US$0.61 million)
          Hamza Renovation of Existing Rehab Center (US$0.17 million)
          Nasiriyah Renovation of Existing Rehab Center (US$0.29 million)
          Hilla Renovation of Existing Rehab Center (US$0.17 million)
          Kirkuk Renovation of Existing Rehab Center (US$0.09 million)
          Tikrit Renovation of Existing Workshop (US$0.09 million)

The US$2.13 million allocated for the eight packages canceled were made available to
cover cost overruns for the remaining six Centers. The final cost was US$6.00 million
mainly due to inflation. There were no exchange rate risks as in the case of the EHRP, as
all contracts were awarded in US Dollars—a lesson learned from EHRP.




                                           23
The following six contracts have been completed (figures in parentheses are adjusted
final contract values including variation orders), and the six centers have been handed
over to the MOH and are functioning:

            Amara New Rehab Center (US$0.66 million)
            Basra New Rehab Center (US$0.84 million)
            Samawa New Rehab Center (US$0.68 million)
            Karbala New Rehab Center (US$0.81 million)
            Dewaniyah New Rehab Center and Workshop (US$1.36 million)
            Kut New Rehab Center and Workshop (US$1.66 million).

Equipment, Medical AIDS and Materials (Appraisal Estimate: US$11.4 million; actual
cost: US$7.99 million)

The Project provided funding for: (i) rehabilitation equipment; (ii) workshop equipment;
(iii) medical aids; (iv) training materials for Prosthetics; and (v) prosthesis and orthosis
materials. During 2010, there were delays in the availability of raw materials for the
workshops, and the MOH decided to provide the raw materials by permitting the
Directorates of Health to procure the raw materials locally, up to a ceiling per package of
50 million Iraqi Dinar (about US$42,500 equivalent). The consumable category of raw
materials under (v) above was cancelled. Below is a summary of the goods procured
through the Project for the revised Component 1.

       (a)      Rehabilitation Equipment (appraisal estimate: US$1.54 million; actual
                cost: US$1.66 million). About 23 generic items (448 items in total) were
                procured under ICB and direct contracting, and awarded in four packages
                (ranging from US$0.16 million to US$0.68 million). All equipment has
                been delivered to the six new centers and Al Hakim Hospital (64 items
                each) and has been installed.

       (b)      Workshop Equipment (appraisal estimate: US$1.29 million; actual cost:
                US$1.50 million). Equipment for the Prosthetic Workshops at three
                centers (Kut, Dewaniyah and Al Hakim Hospital), around 166 generic
                items (6,222 items in total, about 2,074 per center) were procured from
                Otto Bock under ICB at US$1.5 million. All items were initially delivered
                and stored at the port of Basra, until the centers were ready to receive
                them. All items have now been installed in the designated workshops
                centers.

       (c)      Medical Aids (appraisal estimate: US$4.62 million; actual cost: US$4.67
                million). Medical aids were procured in four packages:

                (i)    ICB (7 generic items: wheel chairs, toilet wheel chairs, arm
                       crutches, walking sticks, walking frames, walking rollators,
                       tripods; 34,000 in total) at US$1.92 million;



                                            24
      (ii)    ICB (2 generic items: electrical wheel chairs for adults and
              children; 523 in total) at US$2.05 million;

      (iii)   Shopping (1 generic item: forearm crutch for child; 4,000 in total)
              at US$0.07 million; and

      (iv)    Direct Contracting (to the same supplier for electrical wheel chairs
              through contract extension for1 generic item: electrical wheelchair
              for adults; 174 in total) at US$0.63 million.

(d)   Packages (i) and (iii) above had been distributed to the respective
      directorate warehouses until the civil works of the six centers were
      completed and operational; they have since been distributed to the
      rehabilitation centers. The 523 electrical wheelchairs in package (ii) and
      the 174 electrical wheelchairs in package (iv) were delivered to the
      Central MOH warehouse. In summary, for medical aids, 38,697 items
      have been procured and distributed to the DOH warehouses in the
      respective Governorates or to the Central MOH warehouse. The target
      indicator for medical aids procurement was set at 39,900, and therefore the
      actual number represents 97% achievement.

(e)   A special ministerial committee was set up to speed up the process of
      dispensing all the medical aids to PWD by April 30, 2011. According to
      the information available as of this writing, only 18,508 medical aids
      (48% of the number procured) have been dispensed to PWD. Delays have
      been caused primarily by bottlenecks in MOH validation and allocation of
      the medical aids to the respective DOHs, and dispensing of electrical
      wheelchairs is slow because it requires examination and certification by
      medical personnel.

(f)   Training Materials. Procurement of training materials has been completed
      under three shopping contracts ranging from US$12,000 to US$90,000.
      Total cost was US$156,000.

(g)   Prosthesis and Orthosis Materials (estimated value of US$2.78 million and
      US$0.93 million, respectively). Procurement of these materials was
      cancelled from the project following an agreement reached during the
      April 2008 supervision mission that the MOH would procure this
      equipment with its own resources. MOH has its own contracts for the
      continuous supply of these materials. However, there is a lag in the
      supply because the contracts need to go through the complex procedures
      of Kimadia (the procurement agency for MOH). The MOH provides the
      raw materials by permitting the Directorates of Health to procure the raw
      materials locally, up to a ceiling per package of 50 million Iraqi Dinar
      (about US$42,500 equivalent).




                                   25
       (h)     Medical Furniture. Most medical furniture was supplied as separate lots
               under the Rehabilitation Equipment and Workshop Equipment packages.

       (i)     Non-Medical Furniture. Non-medical furniture was provided under the
               civil works contracts.

Training (appraisal estimate: US$0.99 million; actual cost: US$1.67 million)

The training courses are summarized below.

(a) Overseas Training (actual cost: US$1.64 million)

       (j)     Between March 2007 and August 2009, Prosthesis and Orthosis training
               was provided at the Otto Bock Health Care Academy in Germany for 47
               technicians in six batches, including the last batch of 3 technicians who
               were trained as trainers (see notes under in-country training below). There
               was also overseas training tied to equipment procurement, i.e., Workshop
               Technician training (contract value US$200,000). This training for 12
               prosthetics workshop technicians was provided by Otto Bock Germany on
               a sole source basis from June 29-August 14, 2009. In summary, a total of
               59 prosthetics technicians were trained. The course duration varied
               between 37 and 47 days.

       (k)     In September 2007, Management training was provided at the Center for
               International Rehabilitation (CIR) – University Clinical Center in Tuzla /
               Bosnia for 15 center managers (the target was 20 managers trained). The
               course duration was 12 days.

       (l)     Between September and December 2007, Physiotherapy training was
               provided at the CIR in Bosnia for 65 technicians in three batches. The
               course duration was about 30 days.

       (m)     Between December 2007 and February 2008, training of Hospital-Based
               physicians was provided at the CIR in Bosnia for 16 physicians (original
               plans were made for 20 physicians to attend the training, but four were
               unable to attend due to lack of permission). The course duration was 15
               days.

Other free-standing programs were less successful as in the case of Physiotherapist and
Physician Training (estimated cost US$231,000). This training was planned for two
groups: (a) physiotherapists working on rehabilitation of spinal cord injuries; and (b)
physicians on orthosis prescription. Eight physiotherapists, all of whom received training
in Bosnia under the project, and ten physicians were expected to receive training in their
respective specializations through one training program. Eurohealth was selected, and
provided a proposal which the MOH eventually declined to accept, after lengthy
negotiations, due to high cost and logistical challenges. This training was cancelled due
to insufficient time to select an alternative training provider.



                                           26
(b) In-country Training (actual cost: US$0.03 million)

All the trainings were dependent on the procurement of training equipment and material
being delivered and installed. Otto Bock provided training-of-trainers (TOT) to three of
the previously trained technicians in November/December 2009. The fees for the
training courses were covered by the MOH budget, and the per diems and
accommodations in the amount of US$31,300 were covered by the project funds.
Following their return, the three Trainers conducted the following centralized training
courses in Baghdad:

      Production of prosthetics for above knee for six MOH staff (a 10-day course).
      Production of prosthetics for below knee for six MOH staff (a 10-day course).
      Assembling myoelectric prosthetics below elbow for six MOH staff (a 10-day
       course).

The 18 staff trained in the above courses are expected to train their colleagues at their
respective centers. In addition, the MOH plans to continue to provide several rounds of
centralized trainings in Baghdad.

Revised Component 2: Project Management (appraisal estimate: US$0.71 million;
actual cost: US$0.52 million)

The project financed some computers and peripherals, PMT consultants, external audits
and operating costs.




                                           27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1 The Project was prepared as part of the interim strategy of the World Bank in
addressing the pressing needs of the sector and according to the emergency recovery
assistance procedures (OP 8.50). The lack of reliable statistics, the limited economic
information, and the speed with which the project was prepared have prevented more
detailed analysis, a familiar constraint in such operations. However, the benefits of the
project’s investment were expected to be substantial compared to its costs, as it addressed
urgent needs in an environment of devastated infrastructure, deteriorating quality and
escalating needs.

3.2 PWD living within the catchment areas of the six new rehabilitation facilities now
have access to high quality rehabilitation and prosthetic services that otherwise would not
have been adequately delivered. This facilitates their re-entry into productive life. The
burden of disability for Iraqi society is huge. Given the high unemployment rates and
poor community services, becoming disabled poses a serious risk for the entire family to
slip into poverty. However, no economic evaluation of the Project has been carried out
upon its completion, and none is planned. Economic evaluation is an area where Iraqi
expertise is not strong, so that if such an evaluation were to be done, it would have to be
carried out by Bank staff; this is not possible for the time being because of the security
situation.

3.3 The majority of the goods were procured under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). There were an acceptable number of bidders for each contract, and the ICB
method enabled the PMT to attract better firms, qualities and prices. The civil works were
procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Unfortunately, the ICR mission
could not obtain information on the efficiency12 of the construction of the new
rehabilitation facilities financed by the ITF Grant. In the circumstances, although there is
no reason to believe that Iraq did not also get good value for money for the new
rehabilitation facilities, the rating for efficiency is: ―Not rated.‖




12
     For example, comparisons with the costs of similar rehabilitations carried out under other projects.



                                                       28
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Jean-Jacques Frere        Sr. Health Specialist                  MNSHD Task Team Leader
Virginia H. Jackson       Sr. Operations Officer/Consultant      MNSHD Operations
                          Sr. Implementation
Vasilios C. Demetriou                                            MNSHD Implementation
                          Specialist/Consultant
                          Sr. Procurement and Environmental
Mario Zelaya                                                     MNSSD Implementation
                          Specialist / Consultant
                          Health and Disabilities
Nedim Jaganjac                                                   ECSH1 Health
                          Specialist/Consultant
Goran Cerkez              Rehabilitation Specialist/Consultant   MNSHH Health
Mira Hong                 Operations Officer                     MNSSP Operations
Emma Paulette Etori       Language Program Assistant             MNSHD ACS
Nazaneen Ismail Ali       Procurement Specialist/Consultant      MNAPR Procurement
                          Lead Finance Officer, Fiduciary
David Weber                                                      LOAG1 Finance
                          Assurance
Mona El-Chami             Financial Management Specialist        MNAFM Finance
Hiroko Imamura            Sr. Counsel                            LEGES Legal
Vikram Raghavan           Legal Counsel                          LEGES Legal
Colin Scott               Lead Social Safeguards Specialist      MNSSO Safeguards
Supervision/ICR
Jean-Jacques Frere        Sr. Health Specialist                  MNSHD Task Team Leader
Francisca Avodeji Akala   Sr. Health Specialist                  MNSHD Task Team Leader
Afrah Alawi Al-Ahmadi     Sr. Human Development Specialist       MNSHD Task Team Leader
Eileen Brainne Sullivan   Health Specialist                      MNSHH Task Team Leader
Nazaneen Ismail Ali       Senior Procurement Specialist          MNAPR Procurement
Vasilios C. Demetriou     Consultant                             MNSHD Implementation
Majed El-Bayya            Lead Procurement Specialist            ECSC2 Procurement
                          Sr. Financial Management
Mona El-Chami                                                    MNAFM Finance
                          Specialist
Emma Paulette Etori       Language Program Assistant             MNSHD ACS
Mira Hong                 Operations Officer                     MNSSP Operations
Virginia H. Jackson       Consultant                             LCSHH Operations
Nedim Jaganjac            Sr. Health Specialist                  ECSH1 Health
Layla Gumer Kuleib        Local Coordinator/Consultant           MNSHD Operations
Maisam M. Al-Hayali       Sr. Operations Officer/Consultant      MNCIQ Operations
Antonio C. Lim            Operations Officer                      ECSS2 Operations
Jad Raji Mazahreh         Financial Management Specialist        MNAFM Finance
Claudine Kader            Senior Program Assistant               MNSHD ACS
Mario Antonio Zelaya      Consultant                             MNSSD Implementation
Paul Geli                 Consultant                             MNSHD ICR


                                            29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget and Trust Fund)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                                            15*                     317.10
                           Total:               15*                     317.10
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                            n.a.                    230.47
FY08                                            n.a.                    187.77
FY09                                            n.a.                    137.47
FY10                                            n.a.                    116.42
FY11                                            n.a.                     57.96
                           Total:                                       730.09

*The number of staff weeks is known only for the very small part of the cost financed by
the Bank budget.




                                           30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   32
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                           Summary of borrower’s ICR

                  Implementation Completion Report
                               (ICR)

            EMERGENCY DISABILITY PROJECT
                                    (EDP)
                                  February 2011


              Prepared by Project Management Team (PMT)
                       Ministry of Health (MOH)
                            Republic of Iraq

                                    Acronyms

   1. CIR ……….. Center for International Rehabilitation.
   2. DWG ……... Disability Working Group.
   3. EDP ………. Emergency Disability Project.
   4. EHRP …….. Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project.
   5. ICB ……….. International Competitive Bid.
   6. MOH …….. Ministry Of Health.
   7. NCB ……… National Competitive Bid.
   8. NGO ……… Non-Governmental Organization.
   9. PMT ……… Project Management Team.
   10. PWD …........ Persons with Disability.
   11. TOT ………. Training Of Trainers.
   12. WB ……….. World Bank.
   13. WHO ……... World Health Organization.

Executive Summary

This report is prepared by Project Management Team PMT/ MOH, to reflect an overview
of project implementation experience focusing on the points of strength and weakness
confronted by the PMT/MOH throughout implementing the project and the impact of
factors affected the progress.




                                        33
The ongoing violence, large number of war veterans from conflicts, and breakdown of
community support systems with limited access to health rehabilitation services are
having devastating effect on persons with disabilities (PWD) in Iraq, and increasing the
already high burden of disease. The burden imposed on Iraqi society by disabilities is
huge. Given the high unemployment rates and poor community services, becoming
disabled poses a serious risk for entire family to slip into poverty.

The Iraq government placed high priority on improving its services to support
rehabilitation of disabled persons and their re-entry into productive life. In November
2004, the MOH prepared a draft national strategy for physically disabled which includes
an outline of planned interventions to improve the quality of and access to care for people
with disabilities. In this context, the MOH has developed a broad framework for care of
disabled, with realistic targets to be achieved within five years.

The MOH approached the World Bank in October 2004 concerning support to PWD
resulting from war and related accidents. This meeting yielded an agreement between
World Bank and MOH set the priorities to support the delivery of improved rehabilitation
and prosthetic services that reduce the burden of physical disability. Specifically, support
the development of a national policy on disabilities; increase the capacity of Iraqi
institutions to meet the needs of disabled persons, strengthen the partnerships between the
Government and civil society in provision of services to disabled persons; and upgrade
the infrastructure and equipment of selected rehabilitation and prosthetic centers
throughout Iraq.

Based on the meetings mentioned above, Grant Agreement with amount of $19,500
million was allocated to MOH/Iraq under the Iraqi Trust Fund for an Emergency
Disability Project on Nov.23th, 2005. Then reduced to $16,800 million (after final
reallocation) when$ 2,700 million had been cancelled and project restructuring done in
Nov 2008.
In details, the activities which actually had been executed under each component of the
project are to be demonstrated herein.

                                       Introduction

The community of persons with disability (PWD) is one of the most critical components
of populations; especially in Iraq, after two decades of conflicts and its ensuing
complications; the health sector’s infrastructure -as a vital component of country
structure components- was heavily affected, causing a tangible deterioration and
mismanagement in providing the essential services to the disabled people as well as
decreasing the capacity of this component to achieve minimum daily requirements,
affecting their education, workforce, and of course their income as a consequence to the
overall deterioration. The number and status of the centers and hospitals dedicated to
disability care was also too modest to meet the expanding needs of the society of disabled
people, in addition to the low-level services provided and the availability of raw
materials, equipments, and vocational training for staffs involved in it. Also, the limited
experience of the government in cooperation and working with NGOs was another factor



                                            34
to keep or downgrade the services and its resources to the lowest levels without updating
or upgrading the status of the activities performed in this course.

The project as a result was planned to address the main points that affect the key
requirements to serve the persons with disability considering the spectrum of services to
be for those with physical disability, as well as supporting emergency priorities to be
associated with capacity building for the implementing institutions and entities so as to
improve their capacity to achieve needed objectives and programs, and through
rehabilitating and renovating current centers and hospitals for the sake of mitigating and
lessening the impact of years of mismanagement and lack of experience and resources.

And, of course not to neglect the active role the World Bank has played, throughout the
implementation and along its experience.

                                  Purpose and Objective

The consecutive conflicts over the past twenty years have left a noticeable defect in
delivering Disability care services that suffered an increasing deterioration in its level,
since Iraq was one of the countries in the region with well-developed and well-
performing healthcare infrastructure.

The purpose of this project was to focus the light on the points in need to stand upon in
order to enhance the services, to illustrate a schedule of the actions needed to raise the
level of healthcare services functionality, to mitigate the intensity burden on the People
with Disability (PWD), and to specify weakness points of previous actions taken; not
only to develop but to set a base for a continuous pattern to be adopted throughout
performing the implementation of this project’s components. In addition to setting the
steps for gradual reduction in the instability of the institutional duties and the shortages in
necessary resources that distinctly affected serving the community of Disabled persons
through hospitals and specialized centers over the past years.

The objective of the Project; was to support the delivery of improved rehabilitation and
prosthetic services that reduce the burden of physical disability. Specifically; (a)
developing a national policy on disabilities (cancelled later; see project implementation
experience described by components); (b) increasing the capacity of Iraqi institutions and
other stakeholders to meet the needs of disabled persons; (c) strengthening the
cooperation and partnerships between the Government and civil society in provision of
services to disabled persons; and (d) upgrading the infrastructure and equipment of
selected rehabilitation and prosthetic centers throughout selected sites all over Iraq.

Project components

The main structure of the project comprised three components; namely:
   1. Policy development and partnership.
   2. Delivery of services to disabled persons.
   3. Project management.


                                              35
Component 1: Policy development and partnership

The objectives of this component were: (i) develop a comprehensive policy and
legislative framework for disabilities; and (ii) initiate an enabling environment for
development of partnerships between the MOH, other ministries, and civil society in the
area of disabilities. And that throughout supporting the establishment of multi-sectoral
Disability Working Group as a first step in the policy development process, in addition to
providing the technical assistance to organize the DWG and preparing its work program.
As well as, encompassing the medical aspects of rehabilitation process taking into
consideration the aspects of disability in Iraq: main causes of disability, economic and
social consequences of disabilities, prevention and risk mitigation mechanisms, and
policies and strategies to create the enabling environment which permits PWD full
participation in society, including access to education and labor force, and participation in
decision making. Supporting data collection and assessment of existing NGOs in the area
of Disabilities in Iraq was to be provided under Partnership aspect as a basis for
understanding what kind of services the NGOs are currently providing throughout the
country. The NGOs were to be enrolled in the activities of the abovementioned through
contracting for provision of a selected number of specific services, e.g., community-
based surveys, assistance with registration of disabled persons, and distribution of
medical aids and services.

This component has not progressed beyond initial project support to the establishment of
the Disabilities Working Group whose members included representatives of the
Ministries of Health, Labor and Social Affairs, Education and Defense. Reasons for lack
of progression include: lack of effective leadership of the activity from 2005 to 2007;
inadequate technical professional support; and insufficient political support to move the
component forward .The option of cancellation of this component has been discussed
with Ministry of Health. In September 2008, the Minister of Health sent the Bank a letter
requesting cancellation of component 1, indicating that the government would carry out
the activities through its own resources. Preliminary agreement to restructure the EDP
was reached during April 2008 supervision mission and documented in a Restructuring
project agreement signed by the Bank and the MOH at the conclusion of that mission.
The restructuring was undertaken to ensure that the project will meet its project
Development objective (PDO) and implement activities successfully within the revised
timeframe of the project.

Component 2: Delivery of services to disabled persons.

The objective of this component was to improve the delivery of community-oriented
rehabilitation and prosthetic services for disabled persons in selected sites throughout the
country, in line with international best practice and with WHO recommendations for the
development of community-oriented services for the disabled, and represents a change in
direction from the current unsustainable and discriminatory practice in Iraq where
rehabilitation, isolation in specialized institutions and primary health care services are
provided in large institutions, separate from services for the general population. The new



                                             36
approach promotes provision of services in the community, increasing access and
efficiency as well as promoting an inclusive environment. If positive results are achieved
during this Project, the next phase would include establishment of a network of additional
small community-oriented rehabilitation centers, and further strengthening of the
production workshop.

The Project supported the construction and renovation of six basic rehabilitation centers,
some of them with prosthetic workshops; other existing rehabilitation centers are in
satisfactory condition and therefore will benefit only from training and limited
equipment, while the others will receive support in civil works renovation, equipment and
training.

The Project also supported the procurement of specialized equipment and materials for
prosthetic workshops, equipment for rehabilitation centers, computer workstations for
management and registration of beneficiaries, and office equipment and furniture for the
selected locations, as well as supporting the procurement of medical aids, such as
wheelchairs and walking aids.

Supporting training activities to improve the services for physical rehabilitation was one
of project’s activities, including: (a) specialized training for production and fitting of
prostheses; (b) training for physiotherapists; (c) management training for workshop and
rehabilitation center managers; and (d) specialized training in physical therapy for
hospital-based physicians.

Training for technicians in the prosthetics workshops was in link to the procurement of
equipment, and any tenders for equipment would include the relevant training. Training
of trainers for staff in existing facilities had been organized in global highly experienced
centers in addition.

Procurement of Prosthesis and Orthosis Materials was cancelled from the project as a
result of agreement in April 2008 supervision mission, with the agreement that the MOH
would procure them with its own resources.

Component 3: Project management

The objective of this component was to ensure effective administration and coordination
of the project activities. Overall project coordination was carried out by a Project
Management Team (PMT) in the MOH. The lead implementing agency for the Project
was MOH. The PMT was built on the capacities already established under the
Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP), sharing a Director and the ―business
office‖ functions, e.g., procurement, financial, and secretarial/logistical.

One PMT Director was responsible for both EHRP and EDP. Likewise, the Technical
Coordinator had shared by the two projects and will report directly to the PMT Director.
Terms of Reference for this position have included day-to-day management of the
Project. Procurement, financial management and administrative staff of the PMT have



                                            37
   increased to absorb the additional work of the EDP. The DWG was meant to play an
   advisory role on policy issues relating to the Project.

   Project implementation experience described by components

   The services and goods procured under the project and the activities implemented were as
   follows:

   Civil works:

   Six Disability project sites have been implemented throughout Iraq under the category of
   civil works, and the method of tendering was the NCB, as follows:

1. Karbala disability rehabilitation center. The initial contract period of implementation was
   to be 7 months with initial contract amount of $809,978.00 to be handed over on Dec.25,
   2008 but actually accomplished with additional 120 days of working period, the
   preliminary hand over was on June 16, 2009 with 100% completion rate, then the final
   handing over was on July 18, 2010. The implementation hadn’t encountered any hurdles.

2. Kut disability rehabilitation center and workshop. The initial contract period was 10
   months with initial contract amount of $1,656,822.00 to be handed over on June 10, 2009
   but actually accomplished on Oct.20, 2009 with additional 39 days of working period, the
   preliminary hand over was on Oct.21, 2009 with 100% completion rate, and the final
   hand over shall be on Oct.21, 2010. The works at the site had encountered some problems
   related to the health directorate policies with the supervision undertaken by the consultant
   bureau, solved later in coordination with the health directorate and the consultant.

3. Amara – Missan disability rehabilitation center. The initial contract period was 8 months
   with initial contract amount of $660,573.00 to be handed over on April 4, 2009 then
   accomplished with additional 46 days of working period, the preliminary hand over was
   on Aug.10, 2010. There were no problems reported throughout the implementation of this
   site.

4. Samawa – Muthana disability rehabilitation center. The initial contract period was 8
   months with initial contract amount of $679,581.00 to be handed over on April 10, 2009
   but the works accomplished with additional 149 days of working period, preliminarily
   handed over on Oct.28, 2009 with %100 of completion rate. The works at the site
   encountered two problems throughout the implementation; the rejection of the health
   directorate to the lamination technique of the ground floor on the southern area of the
   center which solved later, and the disputes with the focal point on contractor’s payments
   approval which also solved later with the heath directorate by changing the focal point.




                                                38
5. Basra disability rehabilitation center. The initial contract period was 8 months with initial
   contract amount of $975,357.85 to accomplish works on July 10, 2010 after addition of
   the optional items. The site was handed over on Jan.11, 2010, and that after additional
   120 days of the working period.

6. Diwaniya disability rehabilitation center and workshop. The initial contract period for
   this site was 10 months with initial amount of $1,431,249.00 to be accomplished on June
   15, 2009. Then actually accomplished %100 and handed over on Dec.10, 2009. There
   was a dispute raised between the health directorate – focal point and the contractor on the
   ceiling slab concrete lab test, solved later by the PMT through retesting the concrete
   cubes in order to verify its compliance with the technical specifications.

   Medical Aids:

   38523 medical aids had been procured under the category of Goods/ medical aids in 3
   packages, and the method applied to this activity was the ICB in order to ensure global
   well known companies’ participation and field expertise, as follows:
        34,000 aid including 7 items (classical wheel chair (adult), toilet wheel chair,
          adult forearm crutch, walking stick, adjustable walking frame, walking rollator
          and tripod with forearm support).
        4,000 forearm crutches (child).
        697 electrical wheel chairs (523 for adult and 174 for child) with different
          electronic control.

   All the aids mentioned above had been distributed countrywide basing on population
   number and estimated data of disabled people in each governorate.

   Rehabilitation equipment:

   Nine full sets of physical rehabilitation equipment had been procured to six newly
   established rehabilitation centers through the project with three additional sets delivered
   to Baghdad, Najaf and Nasiriya sites.

   Workshop equipment:

   Three full set of tools, machines and related Prosthesis / Orthosis manufacturing
   equipments had been procured for two newly established workshops in Kut and
   Dewaniya rehabilitation and workshop center plus additional set for Al- Hakim hospital /
   Baghdad.

   Training and capacity building:

   4 training courses had been implemented in different physical rehabilitation competencies
   outside Iraq; 3 courses by Center for International Rehabilitation University CIR /


                                                39
Clinical Center – Tuzla /Bosnia, including training of 15 rehabilitation center managers,
20 specialized rehabilitation hospital based physicians, 65 hospital based physiotherapist.
65 prosthesis manufacturing technicians had been trained in Otto Bock health Care
Academy / Germany.

One training course inside country implemented by the trained technician (T.O.T) in the
field of prosthesis manufacturing, the total number of trainees was (18). The needed
training raw materials for prosthesis manufacturing were procured under the project too.

All the trainees have acquired additional technical skills concerning their field of work
and retained in physical rehabilitation and prosthesis workshop facilities, and still in job.

Financier (World Bank) performance:

As a donor and supervisor, the World Bank has always provided its close and intensive
support and backup to the PMT through; monitoring agents, supervision missions,
training courses prepared for PMT at the WB office in Amman and on-job training, adopt
the responsibility to facilitate and expedite hindered project transactions inside and
outside Iraq.

As a first time for Iraq to deal with international contexts and guidelines of modern
procurement and project management methodologies; the World Bank also provided Iraq
with the opportunity to get in close and parallel range with modern aspects through all the
above mentioned and take on its own the responsibility to ensure consistency of
knowledge acquired by PMT and the continuous encouragement for PMT to transmit this
knowledge to MOH’s staffs so as to spread a wide ranged and enriched knowledge and
experience, this is to elevate the level of technical expertise and revise the methods
applied to implement project under the health sector.

Factors affected the implementation of the project activities:

   1. Country’s exceptional circumstances and the instability of security situation.
   2. Conflicts with the governmental procedures which sometimes caused hindrance to
      project’s activities:
      - Lab tests for constructional materials and its related procedures and approvals.
      - Some elongated and complicated custom procedures which sometimes have
          hindered supplying goods.
      - Interim security authorities and health directorates’ policies also caused
          hurdles to the distribution of aids and goods.
      - Authorizations granted to the consultant bureau (under civil works category)
          which have used to be given to health directorate’s engineers were a subject of
          conflict in some occasions between consultant site engineers and health
          directorate’s.




                                             40
   3. On same course with EHRP; the EDP was also affected by the lack of familiarity
      with World Bank’s guidelines.
   4. Instability in country level governmental framework causing repeated changes in
      governmental managements and turbulence to governmental hierarchy directly
      transmitted to ministry level frameworks.
   5. Need for intensive training at early stages of the project also had played a role in
      affecting the planned and expected rate of implementation.

Lessons learned:

Throughout the implementation of the project it was easy to identify some points
necessary for a successful implementation of a project, summarized below:

   1. Preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study for the project.
   2. Necessity of involving the client in the discussions and studies to identify the
      essential requirements before the design phase.
   3. Assembling a completely committed team under clear and precise framework for
      a work that does not conflict with donor and client’s work contexts.
   4. Providing a suitable work place and necessary requirements (transportation and
      telecommunication means, training, etc.).
   5. Taking the variance in currency exchange rate into consideration during project’s
      cost estimate phase.
   6. Expertise of personnel and authorization level should be included in the criteria
      applied to select and assembling the team, and that to maintain fast and effective
      implementation and decision making which consequently ensures successful
      outcomes throughout projects management.
   7. Focal points provided a clear and effective vision on project’s site progress and
      related issues, and the capacity building through conducting training courses for
      them on World Bank’s guidelines and procedures also provided a boost for their
      performance.




                                           41
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                    42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   a) Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet – Concept Stage – Report No. AC1835 –
      October 12, 2005.
   b) Project Information Document (PID) – Concept Stage – Report No. AB1847 –
      September 23, 2005.
   c) EDP - Minutes of Ad Hoc Committee Appraisal/Negotiations Review Meeting –
      October 27, 2005.
   d) EDP (Iraq Trust Fund) – Agreed Minutes of Negotiations – November 17, 2005.
   e) EDP – Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework –
      ESSAF – E1252 – November 17, 2005.
   f) EDP – Technical Annex – Report No. T7663-IQ – November 23, 2005.
   g) EDP – World Bank Iraq Trust Fund Grant Agreement - Grant Number TF054052
      – November 23, 2005.
   h) Master Implementation Manual (MIM) – ITF – July 2005.
   i) Project Implementation Manual (PIM) for EDP and EHRP on Finances and
      Disbursements – not dated.
   j) Letter of March 16, 2007 to MOH on amendment of trust fund grant agreement
      re: deadline for audit report submission.
   k) Memo to Country Director and letter to MOH of June 15, 2007 on extension of
      grant closing date and reallocation of grant proceeds.
   l) Restructuring package: (i) Summary of agreements reached for the project
      restructuring during November 2008 mission; (ii) MOH request for restructuring
      dated December 1, 2008; (iii) Letter from the country Director to MOH
      transmitting the draft project paper and the draft amendment letter and asking for
      endorsement of those documents; (iv) Memo to RVP and Project Paper dated
      January 21, 2009; and (v) Letter dated February 9, 2009 amending the Grant
      Agreement.
   m) Restructuring Paper (level two restructuring) and Memo to RVP of June 11, 2010,
      and letter to MOH of June 21, 2010 on closing date extension and reallocation of
      grant proceeds.
   n) Aide-memoires of Bank missions for implementation support.
   o) Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) – Numbers 1 to 11.
   p) Fact Sheets – ITF – Projects – EDP – prepared by Etiman Management
      Consulting services (EMCS) – Procurement Management.
   q) Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Iraq for the Period Mid FY09-FY11 –
      World Bank Group Report No. 47303-IQ – February 19, 2009.
   r) Implementation Completion Report (ICR) – Emergency Disabilities Project
      (EDP) – February 2011 –Project Management Team– PMT (MOH).




                                          43
Annex 10. Context at Appraisal

Background

10.1 Abundant natural and human resources enabled Iraq to attain the status of a middle-
income country in the 1970s. The country developed good infrastructure and well-
performing healthcare and education systems, widely regarded as among the best in the
Middle East. Income per capita rose to over US$3,600 in the early 1980s. Since that time,
successive wars and a repressive, state-dominated economic system have stifled growth
and development and debilitated basic infrastructure and social services. International
trade sanctions imposed in 1991 took a further toll on the economy. Per capita income
fell to US$770 by 2001, with a slight increase to US$940 in 2005 - only a quarter of what
Iraqis enjoyed 25 years ago.

10.2 At the time of appraisal, Iraq had had two political transitions, taking steps toward a
constitutionally elected government. Nevertheless, persistent violence had affected most
parts of the country, and continued to hinder reconstruction efforts, economic recovery,
and institutional reform. The ongoing violence, large number of war veterans from recent
conflicts, and the breakdown of community support systems with limited access to health
and rehabilitation services were having a devastating effect on persons with disabilities
(PWD) in Iraq, and increasing the already high burden of disease. The burden imposed on
Iraqi society by disabilities was huge, posing serious risks for entire families to slip into
poverty. The cumulative number of persons suffering from physical disabilities
(excluding blindness, deafness, and disabilities resulting from chronic diseases) was
estimated at 250,000, including 80,000 to 100,000 amputees mostly from lower limb
amputations and 8,000 people suffering from spinal cord damage.

10.3 Key issues for disabled persons included the following:

(a) Once considered one of the best in the region, the Iraqi health system had declined
significantly over the past two decades because of budget cuts, poor management,
neglect, looting due to recent conflicts, and lack of training opportunities for health
professionals, many of whom chose to leave the country.
(b) Care of disabled people had also deteriorated significantly as a result of conflicts and
mismanagement. The capacity of the Government to provide treatment to the victims of
war and other violent acts was limited; many complications occurred and reconstructive
surgery was almost impossible.
(c) Existing centers dedicated to the rehabilitation of disabled patients and the
manufacture of prosthetic limbs had been looted and most of the facilities had suffered
heavy physical damage in recent years.
(d) There had been a dramatic increase in the incidence of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
(PTSD) as a result of the recent conflict. Poverty, instability, and the recent conflict had
also taken a toll on the mental health of the population. The Project would not focus
directly on mental health and depression, but these dimensions of disability would be
taken into account in the development of the national framework on disabilities.




                                             44
(e) Many NGOs were now operating in Iraq to help disabled people, but most had been
created recently, were small and lack resources and capacity.
(f) An inter-ministerial oversight commission for disabilities had been proposed but not
yet formally established under the new Government.

10.4 One of the four pillars of the July 2005 National Development Strategy of Iraqi
Transitional Government was improving the quality of life through, among other things,
investing in the social sectors. In November 2004, the MOH had prepared a draft national
strategy for the physically disabled which included an outline of planned interventions to
improve the quality of and access to care for people with disabilities13. Main areas of the
plan were identified as: medical rehabilitation of individuals who have suffered serious
physical injuries; and psychological rehabilitation of both the individual and the
community involved. In this context, the MOH had developed a broad framework for
care of disabled people, with realistic targets to be achieved within the next five years.
The Project, which would meet only a very small portion of the real needs in the area of
medical rehabilitation, could be followed by a more comprehensive project, provided
sufficient resources and donor partnerships and support are available, and the security
context in the country has improved.

10.5 Donors had pledged very large amounts (about US$1 billion) for the health sector,
mostly for improving the infrastructure. However, the security situation on the ground in
Iraq was significantly impeding progress in implementing the various donor programs.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

10.6 The World Bank Second Interim Strategy Note for Iraq was aligned with the Iraqi
Transitional Government's National Development Strategy. The strategy relied on the
ITF and the International Development Association to finance projects, and on the World
Bank budget for the economic and sector work and policy advice that was needed. The
World Bank had already begun to focus on supporting the recovery of the health system
in Iraq. The first project - EHRP financed through the ITF - aimed to improve access to
quality emergency services in selected health facilities to serve the urgent needs of the
Iraqi population. The MOH approached the Bank in October 2004 concerning support to
PWD resulting from the war and related accidents. This is an area which could
unambiguously be considered as an urgent priority for the Government, especially
considering the continuous increase in the number of victims as a result of the prevailing
instability and violence. Improving the rehabilitation of the physically disabled can have
an immediate and visible impact. This area had not yet been specifically addressed by the
donor community, and the Government had recently signaled that this is an urgent
priority. The proposed project was consistent with the objectives of the Bank's Human
Development Strategy for Iraq, including helping to stem the deterioration of health
services, in terms of infrastructure, human resources, and management. It was also in line



13
     Rehabilitation and Caring for the Disabled in Iraq, MOH, November 2004.



                                            45
with the MENA region's current efforts to develop a strategy to support PWD as a group
disproportionately represented among the world's poorest.14

10.7 The Bank had extensive global experience in supporting these types of interventions
in post conflict and emergency contexts. The Bank's priority was not only to provide
immediate assistance in areas of particular need, but also to ensure that sector
development takes place through establishment of a sound policy framework that will
provide the basis for sustainability and for further reform measures.




14
     ―A Note on Disability Issues in MENA Region, MNSHD working paper, April 2005.



                                          46
Annex 11. Detailed Project Description
(From pages 8 to 10 of the Technical Annex)

Project Objectives

11.1 The original objective of the Project was to support the delivery of improved
rehabilitation and prosthetic services that reduce the burden of physical disability.
Specifically, the Project will: (i) support the development of a national policy on
disabilities; (ii) increase the capacity of Iraqi institutions and other stakeholders to meet
the needs of disabled persons; (iii) strengthen the partnerships between the Government
and civil society in provision of services to disabled persons; and (iv) upgrade the
infrastructure and equipment of selected rehabilitation and prosthetic centers throughout
Iraq.

Project Description

11.2 There were three original project components, namely: (i) Policy Development and
Partnerships; (ii) Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons; and (iii) Project Management.

Component 1: Policy Development and Partnerships (US$0.8 million total, including
contingencies).

11.3 The objectives of this component are to: (i) develop a comprehensive policy and
legislative framework for disabilities; and (ii) initiate an enabling environment for
development of partnerships between the MOH, other ministries, and civil society in the
area of disabilities.

11.4 Policy Development. The Project will support the establishment of a multi-sectoral
DWG as a first step in the policy development process. Technical assistance will be
provided under the Project to assist in organizing the DWG and preparing its work
program. The technical assistance will also support the preparation of a draft national
policy framework on disabilities, to be presented to the Prime Minister's Office and the
National Assembly for review and adoption.

11.5 This policy framework will encompass the medical aspects of the rehabilitation
process, and will take into account the following aspects of disability in Iraq: prevalence
and main causes of disability, economic and social consequences of disabilities,
prevention and risk mitigation mechanisms, and policies and strategies to create the
enabling environment which permits PWD full participation in society, including access
to education and the labor force, and participation in decision making. It will take stock
of current knowledge of disability issues in the country, and open the door to new ideas
and initiatives that will help mainstream disability as a theme across sectors.

11.6 Partnerships. The Project will support data collection and assessment of existing
NGOs in the area of disabilities in Iraq, as a basis for understanding what kinds of



                                             47
services the NGOs are currently providing throughout the country. To begin building
partnerships between NGOs and Government, the Project will also finance a series of
conferences/workshops for NGOs and Government officials at an early stage of project
implementation. These meetings will provide a forum for exchanging information on
ongoing strategies and activities for disabled people, and identifying areas of potential
cooperation. The workshops will also be an opportunity to learn more about the current
capabilities and resources of the NGOs operating in the field. The Project will also
support a public awareness campaign to sensitize the public about the needs of disabled
people.

11.7 In addition, the Project will provide support, on a limited pilot basis (not to exceed
US$50,000 in total), to the MOH to contract NGOs for provision of a selected number of
specific services, e.g., assisting with registration of disabled persons, distribution of
wheelchairs, and community-based surveys.

Component 2: Delivery of Services to Disabled Persons (US$18.0 million total, including
contingencies)

11.8 The objective of this component is to improve the delivery of community-oriented
rehabilitation and prosthetic services for disabled persons in selected sites throughout the
country. The approach is in line with international best practice and with WHO
recommendations for the development of community oriented services for the disabled,
and represents a change in direction from the current unsustainable and discriminatory
practice in Iraq where rehabilitation, isolation in specialized institutions and primary
health care services are provided in large institutions, separate from services for the
general population. The new approach promotes provision of services in the community,
increasing access and efficiency as well as promoting an inclusive environment. If
positive results are achieved during this Project, the next phase would include
establishment of a network of additional small community-oriented rehabilitation centers,
and further strengthening of the production workshops.

11.9 The Project will support the construction of six new basic rehabilitation centers, and
three new rehabilitation centers with prosthetic workshops. In addition, five existing
rehabilitation centers will be renovated. Another four existing rehabilitation centers are in
satisfactory condition and therefore will benefit only from training and limited
equipment, while the others will receive support in civil works renovation, equipment and
training.

11.10 The Project will support procurement of specialized equipment and materials for
prosthetic workshops, equipment for rehabilitation centers, computer workstations for
management and registration of beneficiaries, and office equipment and furniture for the
selected locations. The Project will also support procurement of medical aids, such as
wheelchairs and walking aids.

11.11 The Project will support training activities to improve the services for physical
rehabilitation, including: (i) specialized training for production and fitting of prostheses;



                                             48
(ii) training for physiotherapists; (iii) management training for workshop and
rehabilitation center managers; and (iv) specialized training in physical therapy for
hospital-based physicians. Training for technicians in the prosthetics workshops will be
linked to the procurement of equipment, and any tenders for equipment would include the
relevant training. Training of trainers for staff in existing facilities will be organized in
appropriate centers in neighboring countries. In addition, the Project will support the
training of new physiotherapists to be employed in the new centers.

Component 3: Project Management (US$0.7 million total, including contingencies)

11.12 The objective of this component is to ensure effective administration and
coordination of the project activities. Overall project coordination will be carried out by a
Project Management Team (PMT) in the MOH. The lead implementing agency for the
Project will be the MOH. Responsibility for implementation of the components will rest
with the relevant departments of the MOH and other agencies involved in the project.
The PMT will build on the capacities already established under the Emergency Health
Rehabilitation Project (EHRP), sharing a Director and the "business office" functions,
e.g., procurement, financial, and secretarial/logistical. One PMT Director will be
responsible for both EHRP and EDP. Likewise, the Technical Coordinator will be shared
by the two projects and will report directly to the PMT Director. Terms of Reference for
this position will include day-to-day management of the Project. An Assistant Technical
Coordinator will be selected solely for the EDP, and this individual's responsibilities will
involve supporting the Technical Coordinator and monitoring and evaluation of the
Project. Procurement, financial management and administrative staff of the PMT will be
increased to absorb the additional work of the EDP. The DWG will play an advisory role
on policy issues relating to the Project.

11.13 The Project will finance: (i) adequate office equipment and supplies, and one
project vehicle; (ii) technical assistance and training for PMT staff in project
management, procurement and financial management; (iii) annual external audits of the
project; and (iv) operating costs for the PMT, including vehicle and equipment operation
and maintenance, communications costs, banking fees, transportation costs, meeting
expenses, advertisement fees, representation, and office security arrangements.




                                             49
Annex 12. Other Significant Changes

12.1 Other significant changes included three extensions of the project closing date, two
amendments of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and three reallocations of the proceeds
of the Grant.

Extension of closing date

12.2 The original project closing date of September 30, 2007 was extended three times
for a total of 39 months:

(a) In an amendment letter dated June 15, 2007, the project closing date was first
extended to September 30, 2009. The two-year extension was needed to provide
sufficient time to complete the workshops/rehabilitation centers civil works and equip the
facilities, carry out the agreed training activities, develop a national policy on disabilities,
complete contract payments, and enable the Iraqi team and the task team to evaluate the
project.

(b) When the project was restructured on March 8, 2009, the closing date was extended a
second time to June 30, 2010, in order to allow for the completion of all the revised
activities agreed at restructuring.

(c) On June 21, 2010, the project closing date was extended a third time to December 31,
2010. The purpose of that last extension was two-fold: (i) to provide an additional six
months to permit use of unallocated funds to procure additional electric wheelchairs
which are in high demand in Iraq and urgently needed for the disabled population, as well
as to fully complete remaining contracts; and (ii) to give extra time for detailed data
collection and analysis of project outputs and outcomes.

Amendments of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement

12.3 The Trust Fund Grant Agreement was amended twice during the project life:

(a) In response to a request made by the MOH during the implementation support mission
of September 2006, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement was amended on March 16, 2007 to
change the deadline for audit report submission from four months to six months after the
end of the relevant fiscal year. A six-month deadline for submission of an audit report is
standard.

(b) As part of the project restructuring, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement was amended on
March 8, 200915: (i) to revise the PDO, the performance indicators, the allocation of the
15
  The restructuring package was approved by the RVP on February 2, 2009, and the letter amending the Grant
Agreement was signed by the Country Director on February 9, 2009 and countersigned by the Executive Secretary of
the Iraqi Strategic Review Board (ISRB) on February 24, 2009 and by the Minister of Health on March 8, 2009. The
amendment letter states that it ―shall become effective once it has been executed by all parties‖.




                                                       50
proceeds of the Grant, and the project description; (ii) to cancel US$2.7 million from the
Grant; and (iii) to extend the project closing date from September 30, 2009 to June 30,
2010.

Reallocation of the Proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant

12.4 Over the project life, there were three reallocations of the proceeds of the Grant, on
June 15, 2007, March 8, 2009 and June 21, 2010. Each time, these funding reallocations
were needed to meet current commitments by disbursement category.

12.5 The table below shows the various changes and the final/actual allocation. Although
there was a significant reduction in the number of rehabilitation facilities and workshops
to be constructed/renovated, more funds were required for civil works because of
increases in the scope of works and unit costs. This was partly compensated by a
reduction in the amount for goods due to the cancelation of the purchase of prosthesis and
orthosis materials. There were significant savings in consultants’ services, but the
amounts for training and operating costs were higher than the original estimates. Finally,
at restructuring an amount of US$2.7 million was canceled from the Grant.
   Category       Appraisal Reallocation Restructuring Reallocation                      Final /
                  estimates of June 15,              Reallocation   of June 21,          Actual
                                      2007            March 8,          2010         Allocation*
                                                        2009
                   ---------------------------- In thousands US Dollars ---------------------------
 Civil works            4,700              4,700             6,700          6,100            6,003
 Goods                11,230             11,230              6,400          7,900            8,015
 Consultants’           1,920              1,920               800            735
services                                                                                        729
 Training               1,190              1,300             2,200          1,750            1,663
 Operating
costs                     110                170               250            315               286
 Unallocated              350                180               450                -                 -
Total                 19,500             19,500            16,800         16,800            16,696




                                                 51
Annex 13. Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA)

13.1 When the ITF was created in 2003, the ITF donors required that the Bank, as
Administrator of the ITF, engage an FMA. The main purpose of the FMA was to help
the Bank monitor physical delivery/progress, and the recipients’ compliance with
financial management and procurement procedures. As part of this function, the FMA
provided on-the-job training to the PMTs.

13.2 The FMA is a Baghdad-based management consultant firm that deploys about two
dozen Iraqi professionals (mainly engineers and accountants) recruited from the private
sector with experience in procurement and financial management and accounting. The
FMA visited all EDP sites throughout Iraq every month and carried out physical
verification with digital photographs of ongoing works and goods supplied and the
production of a fact sheet for each contract, alerting the Bank to deficiencies in quality
and implementation. The Bank Task Team for EDP kept close communication with the
FMA during implementation, and invited the FMA to participate in all supervision
missions. The performance of the FMA, including the quality of the personnel, has
improved over time.

13.3 The work of the FMA has been very beneficial to the Project. The cost of the FMA
fluctuated over the years, in the US$200,000–US$250,000 range per project per year.
This is a substantial amount, which had to be spent since there was no alternative worth
considering. The FMA performance demonstrates that, in contexts where the Bank
cannot carry out normal supervision missions, the Bank can mitigate risks for its program
by employing a monitoring agent to monitor physical implementation of projects and
verify that funds are spent for the purpose intended and in accordance with Bank rules;
the detailed terms of reference should also encourage quality professional advice on
technical issues and follow-up until these issues are resolved, rather than simple
mechanical reporting.

Procurement

13.4 As mentioned above, the Bank employed a FMA to assist in monitoring
procurement transactions, including conducting physical checks of all civil works and all
deliveries of goods. This 100 percent check done on behalf of the Bank is a very
interesting feature of the Project; usually, under the best of circumstances, the Bank is
able to check only 15 percent or so of the outputs. The Bank prior-reviewed over 90% of
all procurement under the Project, and the remaining contracts were reviewed by the
FMA. During implementation, MOH recruited an international procurement adviser who,
over time, helped in resolving procurement issues and in producing better results in
procurement.




                                           52
13.5 An Independent Procurement Review (IPR) was carried out in 2009 as a ―desk
review,‖ based on procurement documentation provided at the Bank’s Headquarters. It
indicated a lack of information, even for contracts subject to prior review, which affects
the accuracy of the assessment of both the PMT and the Bank Team. However, the Bank
Task Team made full use of the FMA which carried out 100 percent site inspection for all
goods and works delivered, and the FMA function was an essential aspect of the
supervision process. The Bank Task Team followed up on the Action Plan proposed by
the IPR. There has been no case of misprocurement. In addition to commenting that
record keeping and filing by PMT were not up to standards, the IPR identified a few
shortcomings for which satisfactory explanations could be provided. For example,
because of the security issues, it was not possible to have short lists of six consultants.
Also, the review commented that the minimum qualifying criteria prescribed in the
bidding documents for works were not adequate to ensure that the lowest evaluated and
substantially responsive bidder who meets the post qualification test has the required
capacity to complete the works in a timely and efficient manner. The Bank staff clarified
that, in order to encourage the participation of the private sector which had been
weakened by years of isolation, instability and insecurity, the Bank had decided to lower
the qualification criteria to allow more competition. This was reflected in the Standard
Bidding Documents (small works) included in the MIM16 developed by the Bank for the
use of Iraqi Ministries for all ITF-financed projects. It is interesting to note that, in
response to the IPR’s draft report, the PMT/MOH stressed that ―almost all procurement
packages were implemented with Bank prior review for each decisive step, related
documents had been submitted to the Bank and steps implemented only after Bank No
Objection, even if some may not be fully in compliance with Bank procedures.‖

13.6 There have been significant gaps between the physical completion of civil works
and the physical delivery of goods, and payments to contractors/suppliers. This was due
in part to the security problems, as well as inadequate contract management by the
PMT/MOH. It contributed to the slow disbursement under the Project and was raised by
the Bank as an issue requiring urgent attention by the PMT and the MOH. There was a
high turnover of procurement officers (POs) in PMT (three POs during the life of the
EDP)17. The situation improved towards the end of the Project when PMT had three
assistant POs (one for works, one for goods and one for consultants/training) working
under the procurement manager.

Financial management and disbursements



16
  Volume 3 of the MIM – SBDs - Bid Data Sheet – 3.2a & 3.2c refer to the minimum required annual volume of
construction work and to the list of essential equipment to be made available for the contract, respectively.

17
  This contributed to delays. As an example, the tender process for medical aids and prosthetic equipment has been
delayed because of the disappearance of the PMT procurement specialist responsible for the preparation of the bidding
documents, which resulted in significant loss of work (equipment lists and specifications).




                                                        53
13.7 The financial management arrangements for the Project were basically similar to
those being followed under the EHRP, taking into consideration the specific activities
under the Project and the hurdles being faced during the implementation of the EHRP.
According to the Technical Annex, disbursements would be made primarily through
direct payment by the Bank to the contractors, suppliers and consultants. Once
authorized by the MOH, payments above the threshold of US$10,000 would be made by
the World Bank directly into the account of the contractor, supplier or consultant in a
commercial bank capable of receiving funds transferred from the international banking
system. There would be no special/designated account. Payments for the project
management component and payments below the threshold of US$10,000 would
normally be made by the MOH/Recipient from its own resources. These payments made
from the MOH/Recipient’s own resources would be reimbursed, on a periodic basis, by
the Bank to the MOH upon presentation of proof of payment and a signed withdrawal
application.

13.8 Financial management (FM) risk mitigation measures described in the Technical
Annex were put into place. There were no major changes to FM during project
implementation. It is worth noting that the only part of the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM) that was prepared dealt with financial management and disbursements.
The absence of a special/designated account was not as big a problem as for the EHRP,
because the PMT/MOH managed to establish and maintain a project account throughout
the EDP life for payments of small amounts (less than US$10,000) to avoid shortages and
delays in payments and reimbursements.

13.9 The disbursement rate lagged significantly during the project life. The main reasons
for the disbursement lag included: (i) unrealistic implementation period (24 months); (ii)
slow physical implementation; (iii) lack of capacity within the PMT/MOH for contract
management; and (iv) lack of familiarity of consultants and contractors with
internationally accepted business practices, especially the monthly submission of invoices
and full documentation of invoices.

13.10 The PMT/MOH staffing for financial management was adequate. The FM team
consisted of a Financial Officer (FO), an internal auditor and two accountants; the team
worked on a full time basis on two ITF-financed Projects (EHRP and the Project under
review). The performance of the financial management team improved during project
implementation, and the team did a relatively good job overall. The EHRP had
experienced delays in payments in Iraqi Dinars, but this was not a problem for the EDP
because only one contract was denominated in Iraqi Dinars; there was no problem with
payments made in US Dollars.

13.11 The FMA that was hired by the Bank for fiduciary purposes was effective. FMA
staff visited the PMT/MOH two to three times per month on average to: (i) review the
PMT’s FMRs and reconcile the PMT records to the Bank records; (ii) monitor unclaimed
expenditures; (iii) verify disbursement plan updates; and (iv) provide on-the-job training
in FM matters. The FMA included the PMT-prepared financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) in their quarterly reports, as well as the adjusted FMRs (with their review



                                           54
comments and recommendations for the PMT FMRs). FMRs were usually submitted in a
timely manner. The FMA also conducted, on a sample basis, pre-screening and post-
review of withdrawal applications for direct payments and reimbursements.

13.12 During the project period, there have been issues related to weaknesses in the
internal control system of the PMT, budgeting, and failure of the PMT to reconcile
regularly the EDP records with the Bank client connection. Most of these problems were
progressively resolved thanks to the high commitment and pro-activity of the PMT and
FO and the implementation support provided by the Bank Task Team and the FMA.

13.13 FMRs were satisfactory and were submitted in a timely manner. Audit reports18
were submitted on time, except for the 2006 audit report which was submitted late. They
have been unqualified except for 2008. The 2008 audit report was qualified due to
identified ineligible expenditures; it had a number of shortcomings (missing elements,
instances of inconsistency, inaccurate amounts, as well as incomplete disclosures in the
notes to the financial statements) so that the report had to be revised and resubmitted. In
its management letter, the auditor made recommendations in order to avoid such cases of
ineligible expenditures and other problems in the future. As requested by the Bank, in
January 2010 the PMT submitted an action plan to remedy the weaknesses identified by
the external auditor. The next EDP audit report will cover the year 2010 plus the four-
month grace period and is due by June 30, 2011. An escrow account has been established
for that audit report.

Safeguards

13.14 The Project was appropriately rated environmental category ―B‖. The Technical
Annex had a number of interesting sections and documents on safeguards, including: (i)
A summary of the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
(ESSAF); (ii) Codes of Practice for Prevention and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts;
and (iii) Safeguards Procedures for Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts.
The ESSAF was devised and approved by Bank management to provide practical
procedures of environmental assessment and control to be included in the ITF-financed
projects carried out in a ―post-conflict‖ country situation, similar to the frameworks
prepared for post-conflict reconstruction programs in Afghanistan and Kosovo. Impacts
would be those associated mainly with (i) construction of rehabilitation and new
Disability Rehabilitation Centers (e.g., safety, dust, noise, waste material, and vehicular
traffic); (ii) provision of sanitary services, water supply and waste management; and (iii)
operation and maintenance of Disability Rehabilitation Centers. Because of the
emergency conditions, the requirement to carry out a limited Environmental Analysis as
part of project preparation was waived. However, for sub-projects with possible moderate
or minor adverse environmental impacts, a limited Environmental Analysis would be
done during project design for World Bank approval prior to execution of such works.

18
  During negotiations of the Grant, the IDA team emphasized the need for annual audits, and the Iraqi delegation
agreed that the Recipient engage an external independent auditor with international experience to perform the project
audits and issue an independent opinion on the project financial statements.




                                                          55
The ESSAF was disclosed in Iraq and in the World Bank’s Infoshop on November 17,
2005.

13.15 Based on the ESSAF, the following standards were applied during implementation:
(i) inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice (ECOP) in the bid documents
for civil works; (ii) use of Safeguard Procedures for Inclusion in the Technical
Specifications of Contracts; (iii) use of the Checklist of likely Environmental and Social
Impacts of Subprojects; (iv) review and oversight of any major construction works by
specialists; (v) implementation of environmentally and socially sound options for civil
works; and (vi) provision for adequate budget and satisfactory institutional arrangements
to monitor effective implementation and adequately operate and maintain sanitary
facilities after project completion. Regarding the construction of new facilities, there was
no involuntary relocation of populations or expropriation of privately owned land, and no
cultural finds were discovered during excavations.

13.16 Capacity building on safeguards and on the implementation of the ESSAF had
already been undertaken with the Ministry of Environment and MOH under the EHRP. In
addition, the plan was that MOH/PMT would employ a safeguard specialist who would
be trained on World Bank safeguard policy and procedures for monitoring compliance
with World Bank policy during project implementation; unfortunately, the MOH
safeguards specialist left after six months and was not replaced. Also, for most of the
project period there was no Bank safeguards specialist assigned to the Project. However,
Bank’s implementation support missions discussed with PMT/MOH the need for regular
monitoring of the civil works sites to ensure that the environmental safeguards were
being followed. Although compliance with the environmental safeguards was the
responsibility of the MOH’s Maintenance Department, the PMT designated two of its
staff to act as Environmental Safeguards Focal Points, to follow up at the project sites
with the consultants and contractors to ensure that they were adhering to their obligations
regarding the environmental safeguards. Relevant safeguards attachments were on all
consultant and construction contracts, and construction activities were closely monitored.
Checklist forms for all the project sites were completed by the Environmental Safeguards
Focal Points and were submitted to the Bank during the April 2010 implementation
support mission. As expected, the Environmental Safeguards Focal Points have also been
in contact with the Ministry of Environment on any issues arising. For example the use
of refrigerant Freon22 was questioned during a Bank mission and the PMT consulted the
Ministry of Environment which responded by letter, certifying that the use of the
refrigerant Freon has no adverse effects on the environment and is permissible in Iraq.
This letter was forwarded to the Bank on December 24, 2009 by the PMT.




                                            56
MAP




      57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33422



                                                                                                                         IRAQ
                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                    MAIN ROADS
                                                                        GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                             GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                            40E                                      42E                                                 44E                                           46E                                      48E


                                       TU R K EY                                                                                          To Urmia


                                                                                                                                                              To Urmia
                                                                                                          - -
                                                                                                         Zakhu                                                                                 0          50           100       150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                             DAHUK
                                                                             -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                            Tig                     -
                                                                                                                 Dahuk 'Aqrah                                                                  0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                               r
                                                                                               r
                                                                                               r R.
                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                                                                     Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                          - -
                                                                                                                                                         Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                -                                        Mosul               -
                                                                            Sinjar                                                        ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                              Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr
                           ates                                                    -                                                                                                                                                                         36N
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                 N I N AW ?
                                                                                                                                                                              As
                                                                                                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                             Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                           Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                                             - -                                       REPUBLI C
                                                                                                                                       AT Kirkuk
                                                                                                                                                          -      AS SULAYMANIYAH
    S YRIAN                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                     TA'MIM                                                                            O F IRA N
                                           To Dayr
     A RAB                                 az Zawr                                                                       -
                                                                                                                     Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                         ba
      RE P.                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                          -       H
                                                                                        -
                                                                                       'Anah
                                                                                                                    - Tikrit
                                                                                                                 SALAH AD
                                                                                                                               am
                                                              -                                                      -            ri                                                          -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                           - -
                                                                                                                    DIN Samarra'     n                                                 To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                 Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                 34N
                                                                                                                                                                              - -
                                                                                                                                   Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                           Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                           Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                               - -                               -
                                                                                                                         Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                              DIYAL?
                                                                                                                                     Al Fallujah
                                                                                                            - -
                                                                                                        Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                        BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                       BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                       Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                             Razzaza                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                              WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                       Lake                 -
                                                                                                                               Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                      BABIL                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                    Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                        is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                    -                  Al Hillah
                                                                                                                              KARBALA'                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Dezful
                                                     D e s e r                               t                                                                         - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                             Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                            Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                            -   -                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                        AL QADISIYAH                                            -
                                                                                                                                                        Eu
                                                                                                                                                          phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                ates
                                                                                                                                                                     R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                             As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Ahvaz
                                                                                            S                                 AN NAJAF                                                         - -
                                                                                                a                                                                                            DHI QAR
                                                                                                    h                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                   An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                        ra
                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                       Al Basrah
                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                              ij                                -
                                                                                                                                                         As Salman
                                                                                                                                   ar                                                                            AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                         ah                                                                                            Umm
                                                                                                                                                       AL MUTHANN?                                              BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                        Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KUWA IT
                                                                                           S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                42E                                                     44E                                                 46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEBRUARY 2005
