Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB3895 
Operation Name 
Vietnam Poverty Reduction Support Credit 7 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General education sector (20%); Health (20%); General finance 
sector (20%); General public administration sector (20%); General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P105287 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
47-49 Ly Thai To street, Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84 4 9343361 
Fax: 84 4 8250612 
fdsbv@fpt.vn 
Date PID Prepared 
May 16, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 12, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
Expected June 24, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Vietnam has been on a sustained path of economic reform since the launching of its 
Doi 
Moi
 (renovation) process, in 1986.  Comprehensive economic reforms have led to rapid 
economic growth and remarkable progress on development outcomes
.
Vietnam has been among 
the fastest-growing economies in the world for almost two decades.  GDP per capita has 
increased at roughly 6.9 percent per year in real terms.  In spite of a dramatic economic 
transformation, inequality does not appear to have increased significantly.  The Gini index 
increased from 0.34 in 1993, the year of the first representative household expenditure survey, to 
0.36 in 2006.  Hence, rapid economic growth has resulted in a dramatic reduction in poverty.  
Based on a consumption basket of food and non-food items sustaining an intake of 2,100 calories 
per person per day, the poverty headcount declined from 58 percent in 1993 to 16 percent in 
2006.  Other social indicators have shown equally remarkable improvements. 
 
Economic reforms accelerated considerably around 2001, justifying the first series of 
PRSCs, and then again in 2006, at the beginning of the current series.   The former involved the 
passing of an enterprise law that greatly facilitated business registration and operation, the 
signing of a bilateral trade agreement with the United States that strengthened global integration 
and resulted in important legal improvements, the adoption of the first serious steps towards 
State Owned Enterprise (SOE) divestiture and the strengthening of public financial management.  
The latter was crowned by the accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), the adoption 
of an ambitious banking reform roadmap, a new resolve to equitize large SOEs and transfer the 
exercise of state ownership rights
 
out of line ministries and provincial governments, the drive 
Page  2
towards introducing universal programs for social protection, and the adoption of a determined 
anti-corruption drive. 
 
Vietnam emerged from massive poverty less than two decades ago, and now has the 
vision to attain middle-income status by 2010.  If current growth trends continue, GDP per capita 
will have crossed the US$1,000 benchmark by then.  This in itself would be an impressive 
accomplishment.  However, attaining middle-income status is seen as more than a quantitative 
goal.  Referring to such status is a way of emphasizing the need for a more sophisticated set of 
economic institutions.  Reaching middle-income status requires further financial deepening to 
support capital mobilization, the regulation of access to and pricing of infrastructure services, the 
gradual development of modern social insurance, more effective tools for environmental 
protection, legal and judiciary reforms, and the effective containment of corruption, among 
others. 
 
The Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2006-2010, approved in June 2006, 
articulates this vision.  Unlike previous five-year plans, which focused on quantitative targets as 
if the state was still in charge of producing most goods and services, the SEDP emphasizes 
development outcomes, and the policy reforms needed to attain them.   It relies on data analysis, 
rather than administrative reporting, to substantiate its diagnostics and recommendations.  It has 
also led to the adoption of a framework to monitor progress towards attaining development 
outcomes.  The process through which the SEDP was prepared was more encompassing than in 
the past.  Extensive consultations were held, going beyond the boundaries of government, and 
involving businesses, grassroots communities, overseas Vietnamese and donors. 
 
The donor community has chosen to align its efforts behind the SEDP, while 
acknowledging that other key documents will shape reforms in the coming years.  Such 
alignment is a testimony to the strong ownership of the reform program by the government of 
Vietnam.  It also reflects satisfaction with the process through which the SEDP was prepared.  In 
the case of the World Bank, the Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) submitted to the Board in 
December 2006, and the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) submitted in January 2007 
concluded that the SEDP had incorporated the necessary Poverty Reduction Strategy principles, 
was broadly sound, and was a plan that could both deliver growth and reduce poverty. 
 
At the same time, the international community recognizes that some of the reforms 
needed will be challenging, requiring attention to their content and timeliness.  The SEDP 
represents a sustainable development strategy only if macroeconomic management remains 
prudent and state sector reform is not unduly delayed.  Moreover, as the policy reforms 
considered by the SEDP are remarkably broad, it is important to prioritize and sequence them 
appropriately.  There is a consensus that supporting Vietnam’s reform agenda does not entail 
favoring one of the SEDP pillars over the others.  But it requires being selective within each of 
the pillars, and paying attention to the content of the most important measures.  
 
This is a critically important time for engagement by the international community.  
Vietnam’s ability to sustain its remarkable growth trajectory over several more decades, and 
eventually become an industrial country, may be determined during this period.  The reforms 
associated with attaining middle-income status are more complex than those needed to move 
away from central planning.  Active engagement should contribute to improving the content and 
coherence of such reforms. 
Page  3
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed credit is the second in a five-year cycle aimed at supporting the 
implementation of the SEDP.  PRSCs are well-suited to address the challenges mentioned above.  
The cross-cutting nature of the policy dialogue they support strengthens coordination among line 
ministries and government agencies.  Their emphasis on a selected number of policy actions 
facilitates an in-depth discussion of their content.  Their otherwise demanding annual sequence, 
combined with the forward-looking nature of the triggers used to launch the preparation of the 
next operation in the cycle, helps keeping the pace of reform.  Progress made on public financial 
management over the last decade mitigates the risks associated with direct budget support. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
So far, six PRSC operations have supported the implementation of Vietnam’s reform 
agenda.  PRSC 1, a two-tranche credit for US$ 250 million, was approved by the Board in June 
2001.  Its focus was mainly on the structural reform agenda.  The second tranche of PRSC 1 was 
released in December 2002.  PRSC 2, a one-tranche operation for US$ 100 million, was 
approved in June 2003.  This operation was aligned to the government’s Comprehensive Poverty 
Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), which made it possible to broaden considerably the 
range of reforms supported.  In addition to the mainly structural aspects covered by PRSC 1, this 
second credit included various policy actions aimed at keeping development inclusive and 
building modern governance.  PRSCs 3 to 5 were also one-tranche operations of US$ 100 
million each.  These were approved in June 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively and had a broad 
sectoral coverage too. 
 
The issuance of the SEDP 2006-2010 supported the preparation of a new series of 
operations, from PRSC 6 to 10.  The SEDP is organized around four pillars, including natural 
resources and the environment, in addition to the economic, social and institutional dimensions 
of CPRGS.  The CPS foresees the allocation of US$ 150 million to each of the PRSCs in this 
second cycle.  The actual allocation for PRSC 6 was US$ 175 million, and is likely to be 
approximately $150 million for PRSC 7. 
In addition to providing resources to the budget, PRSC operations served as an effective 
coordination device, supported by an increasingly large number of donors.  PRSCs have been co-
financed by bilateral and multilateral agencies, either through grants or through parallel lending 
(Table 1).  More importantly, the process saw a transition in the role of co-financiers, from 
providers of finance to partners substantially engaged in the preparation of the operations and the 
policy dialogue with government.  This dialogue is organized by policy areas, in which donors 
engage selectively, based on their interests and technical capacity on the ground. 
 
The volume of resources mobilized so far is not negligible.  About US$ 1.5 billion have 
been committed in budget support over the first six PRSC operations.  Of this amount, some US$ 
1.3 billion have already been disbursed, with the rest to follow before June 2008 (Table 2).  Over 
the ten PRSC operations, some US$ 3.3 billion could be channeled to a very successful reformer. 
 
Page  4
4. Financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 150 million equivalent.  The credit would be 
disbursed in one tranche at effectiveness. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) is assigned as the agency responsible for the 
preparation and implementation of PRSC 7, in close coordination with some 22 relevant line 
ministries and government agencies, the World Bank, and the co-financing donors.  A Deputy 
Governor of SBV was appointed to lead the PRSC process.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
This operation is a vehicle for the World Bank and the development partners to stay 
engaged with a client that has delivered an outstanding performance in terms of economic 
growth and poverty reduction.  It recognizes the commitment of the government to deepen its 
reform strategy. Bank’s engagement in policy dialogue should help strengthen the content of 
specific policy actions, to ensure the timeliness of their adoption, and monitor the impact of the 
overall program on broader development outcomes.  The value of this engagement is all the more 
important given that this would be the last cycle of general budget support operations in 
concessional terms, hence providing an exceptional window for high-level policy access in a 
country that is not aid dependent. 
 
Vietnam faces new challenges.  Other than the risk that Vietnam will not be able to 
continue its remarkable performance, three main risks are identified.
 
In the short term, the 
largest vulnerability stems from possible turbulence in the financial sector. The development of 
capital markets has vastly outpaced that of the supervisory and regulatory capacity of monetary 
authorities.  This situation calls for a rapid upgrading of policies related to the banking sector, the 
securities market and the management of public debt, all of which are part of the proposed 
reform program.  The government at the highest level is committed to addressing this risk.   
 
The second risk stems from global integration, resulting in massive inflows of Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) and increased competition in formally protected sectors, may also test 
the ability of Vietnam to preserve social inclusion.  There is a risk that some groups could lose in 
the short term, and that urban-rural gap would widen.  Rapid feedback channels from affected 
stakeholders, inclusive policies in the social sectors, and transparent mechanisms to transfer 
resources to the poorer regions are among the mitigating measures supported by the proposed 
series of operations.   
 
The third risk is that governance reforms do not keep pace with rapid developments, in 
particular in the areas of urbanization and infrastructure development.  Cases of corruption and 
social strife are increasingly related to land zoning and land compensation.  Tackling this risk 
requires rapid progress in transparency at various levels, from regional planning to infrastructure 
master plans to land use to appropriate taxation to the monitoring of assets of the relevant civil 
servants.  This area receives special attention in the proposed series of operations, including the 
Page  5
recommendation to use public auctions when the state leases or allocates land, and several 
actions to improve transparency in public administration. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Some of the policy actions supported by this operation could affect specific population 
groups but most of the social impacts are bound to be broad.  The ongoing restructuring of state 
sector falls in the first group, as does the increase in tuition fees for secondary and tertiary 
education.  With a reform program as comprehensive as that of Vietnam, however, social 
impacts are bound to be felt across the entire society, possibly over a long period of time.  
PRSCs support a fundamental transformation of the Vietnamese economy, including an 
increasing reliance in market mechanisms and a growing integration in the world economy.  
Rapid economic growth is a testimony to the soundness of this reform program.  The rapid 
reduction in poverty associated with this success suggests that adverse social impacts are limited.  
However, global integration (especially since the accession of Vietnam to the WTO) is bringing 
unprecedented dynamism to the economic hubs of the country, which could result in growing 
regional disparities.  The scarcity of qualified personnel associated with this dynamism may also 
lead to a higher skill premium, and growing disparities between households.  Perhaps the biggest 
impacts are happening in connection to land.  In urban areas, agglomeration effects are leading to 
a
surge in the price of prime land, resulting in massive gains for landlords and growing costs for 
the rest.  Meanwhile, forests that were traditionally used by ethnic minority people as a public 
good are increasingly being converted into commercial forests or agricultural land. 
In cases where the reform program affects identifiable population groups, the credit also 
supports measures to offset the adverse impacts.  For instance, under this operation the social 
safety net to assist redundant workers from SOEs is extended so as to also cover workers from 
state-owned farms, plantations and forests undergoing equitization or restructuring.  Similarly, 
the revision of tuition fees for secondary and tertiary education, aimed at better aligning them 
with market conditions, is complemented by the adoption of two large-scale programs, one on 
scholarships and the other on concessional credit for students. 
 
The current credit includes several policy actions clearly aimed at offsetting trends 
towards growing inequality.  Among them is the strengthened enforcement of regulations and 
improved education programs in relation to traffic safety, the increase in the health insurance 
premium paid on behalf of the poor and for the first time the partial subsidization of the near-
poor, the introduction of a voluntary pension program for farmers and informal sector allowing 
for budget support for the poor, and the issuance of guidelines for forest development based on 
participatory land-use planning and independent monitoring.  Importantly, the credit supports the 
establishment of consultation and information gathering mechanisms to identify the social 
impacts of accession to the WTO.
 
The goal is to establish effective mechanisms to communicate 
with stakeholders, to adjust the implementation of policies and to gather feedback on actual 
impacts.  
The proposed operation supports explicitly important policy actions with environmental 
objectives.  Nine actions covering land and forests (forest development guidelines and land 
auction polices), water (river basin management, sanitation strategy, and a natural disaster 
mitigation strategy), and the environment (performance contracts for sewerage and drainage, 
cleaner production incentives, strategic environmental assessment guidelines, and adoption of a 
Page  6
climate change action plan).  Other policy actions have important positive implications for the 
environment, such as inclusion of social and environmental impacts of WTO accession and safe 
treatment of waste and water discharge from hospitals. More complete information on these 
policy actions is included in other sections of this document. 
There are no direct investments supported by the PRSC with measurable environmental 
impacts but to the extent that the PRSC can be considered responsible for triggering new 
development patterns or accelerated growth, it could potentially generate unintended indirect 
negative impacts.  These could involve private sector development, SOE reform, trade 
integration, and planning processes. 
Some policy actions promoted under the PRSC itself mitigate or counter possible 
impacts.  The strategic environmental assessment (SEA) guidelines policy action of this PRSC is 
particularly important as good SEAs can adequately assess economy-wide or sector-wide 
developments potentially triggered by PRSC-supported reforms.  Additionally, support by the 
Swedish-funded SEMLA program has been important in providing support for the strengthening 
and implementation of SEA policies. Other SEA work is underway by a range of donors, 
including the World Bank.  The forthcoming PRSC operation also intends to strengthen its 
handling of climate change. 
Supporting analytical work is being carried out on a number of environmental topics in 
Vietnam.  A 
Poverty-Environment Nexus
 analysis will be completed this year and raise 
awareness on the interaction between environmental issues and poverty.  A major study on the 
pollution caused by the manufacturing sectors will also shortly be distributed giving decision-
makers additional tools to address environmental pollution.  Other recent publications have 
tackled issues of solid waste, biodiversity, climate change, fisheries and aquaculture, and water 
quality in river basins.  A great range of analytical work supported by other PRSC donors has 
helped fill the gap between SEDP objectives and policy actions supported by the PRSC process. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Martin G. Rama 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel:  
Fax:  
Email: Mrama@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  7
