Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3665 
Operation Name 
Vietnam Poverty Reduction Support Credit 7 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General education sector (20%); Health (20%); General finance 
sector (20%);General public administration sector (20%);General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P105287 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Vietnam 
Implementing Agency 
THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
47-49 Ly Thai To street 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84 4 9343361 
Fax: 84 4 8250612 
fdsbv@fpt.vn 
Date PID Prepared 
February 18, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 5, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 24, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Vietnam has been on a sustained path of economic reform since the launching of its 
Doi Moi
 (renovation) 
process, in 1986.  Comprehensive economic reforms have led to rapid economic growth and remarkable progress 
on development outcomes
.
Vietnam has been among the fastest-growing economies in the world for almost two 
decades.  GDP per capita has increased at roughly 6.9 percent per year in real terms.  In spite of a dramatic 
economic transformation, inequality does not appear to have increased significantly.  The Gini index increased 
from 0.34 in 1993, the year of the first representative household expenditure survey, to 0.36 in 2006.  Hence, 
rapid economic growth has resulted in a dramatic reduction in poverty.  Based on a consumption basket of food 
and non-food items sustaining an intake of 2,100 calories per person per day, the poverty headcount declined from 
58 percent in 1993 to 16 percent in 2006.  Other social indicators have shown equally remarkable improvements. 
 
Economic reforms accelerated considerably around 2001, justifying the first series of PRSCs, and then 
again in 2006, at the beginning of the current series.   The former involved the passing of an enterprise law that 
greatly facilitated business registration and operation, the signing of a bilateral trade agreement with the United 
States that strengthened global integration and resulted in important legal improvements, the adoption of the first 
serious steps towards State Owned Enterprise (SOE) divestiture and the strengthening of public financial 
management.  The latter was crowned by the accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), the adoption of 
an ambitious banking reform roadmap, a new resolve to equitize large SOEs and transfer the exercise of state 
ownership rights
 
out of line ministries and provincial governments, the drive towards introducing universal 
programs for social protection, and the adoption of a determined anti-corruption drive. 
 
Vietnam emerged from massive poverty less than two decades ago, and now has the vision to attain 
middle-income status by 2010.  If current growth trends continue, GDP per capita will have crossed the US$1,000 
benchmark by then.  This in itself would be an impressive accomplishment.  However, attaining middle-income 
status is seen as more than a quantitative goal.  Referring to such status is a way of emphasizing the need for a 
more sophisticated set of economic institutions.  Reaching middle-income status requires further financial 
deepening to support capital mobilization, the regulation of access to and pricing of infrastructure services, the 
Page  2
gradual development of modern social insurance, more effective tools for environmental protection, legal and 
judiciary reforms, and the effective containment of corruption, among others. 
 
The Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2006-2010, approved in June 2006, articulates this 
vision.  Unlike previous five-year plans, which focused on quantitative targets as if the state was still in charge of 
producing most goods and services, the SEDP emphasizes development outcomes, and the policy reforms needed 
to attain them.   It relies on data analysis, rather than administrative reporting, to substantiate its diagnostics and 
recommendations.  It has also led to the adoption of a framework to monitor progress towards attaining 
development outcomes.  The process through which the SEDP was prepared was more encompassing than in the 
past.  Extensive consultations were held, going beyond the boundaries of government, and involving businesses, 
grassroots communities, overseas Vietnamese and donors. 
 
The donor community has chosen to align its efforts behind the SEDP, while acknowledging that other 
key documents will shape reforms in the coming years.  Such alignment is a testimony to the strong ownership of 
the reform program by the government of Vietnam.  It also reflects satisfaction with the process through which 
the SEDP was prepared.  In the case of the World Bank, the Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) submitted to the 
Board in December 2006, and the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) submitted in January 2007 concluded that 
the SEDP had incorporated the necessary Poverty Reduction Strategy principles, was broadly sound, and was a 
plan that could both deliver growth and reduce poverty. 
 
At the same time, the international community recognizes that some of the reforms needed will be 
challenging, requiring attention to their content and timeliness.  The SEDP represents a sustainable development 
strategy only if macroeconomic management remains prudent and state sector reform is not unduly delayed.  
Moreover, as the policy reforms considered by the SEDP are remarkably broad, it is important to prioritize and 
sequence them appropriately.  There is a consensus that supporting 
Vietnam’s reform agenda does not entail 
favoring one of the SEDP pillars over the others.  But it requires being selective within each of the pillars, and 
paying attention to the content of the most important measures.  
 
This is a critically important time for engagement by the international community.  Vietnam’s ability to 
sustain its remarkable growth trajectory over several more decades, and eventually become an industrial country, 
may be determined during this period.  The reforms associated with attaining middle-income status are more 
complex than those needed to move away from central planning.  Active engagement should contribute to 
improving the content and coherence of such reforms. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed credit is the second in a five-year cycle aimed at supporting the implementation of the SEDP.  
PRSCs are well-suited to address the challenges mentioned above.  The cross-cutting nature of the policy dialogue 
they support strengthens coordination among line ministries and government agencies.  Their emphasis on a 
selected number of policy actions facilitates an in-depth discussion of their content.  Their otherwise demanding 
annual sequence, combined with the forward-looking nature of the triggers used to launch the preparation of the 
next operation in the cycle, helps keeping the pace of reform.  Progress made on public financial management 
over the last decade mitigates the risks associated with direct budget support. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
So far, six PRSC operations have supported the implementation of Vietnam’s reform agenda.  PRSC 1, a 
two-tranche credit for US$ 250 million, was approved by the Board in June 2001.  Its focus was mainly on the 
structural reform agenda.  The second tranche of PRSC 1 was released in December 2002.  PRSC 2, a one-tranche 
operation for US$ 100 million, was approved in June 2003.  This operation was aligned to the government’s 
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), which made it possible to broaden 
considerably the range of reforms supported.  In addition to the mainly structural aspects covered by PRSC 1, this 
second credit included various policy actions aimed at keeping development inclusive and building modern 
Page  3
governance.  PRSCs 3 to 5 were also one-tranche operations of US$ 100 million each.  These were approved in 
June 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively and had a broad sectoral coverage too.
 
The issuance of the SEDP 2006-2010 supported the preparation of a new series of operations, from PRSC 
6
to 10.  The SEDP is organized around four pillars, including natural resources and the environment, in addition 
to the economic, social and institutional dimensions of CPRGS.  The CPS foresees the allocation of US$ 150 
million to each of the PRSCs in this second cycle.  The actual allocation for PRSC 6 was US$ 175 million, and is 
likely to be approximately $200 million for PRSC 7. 
In addition to providing resources to the budget, PRSC operations served as an effective coordination 
device, supported by an increasingly large number of donors.  PRSCs have been co-financed by bilateral and 
multilateral agencies, either through grants or through parallel lending (Table 1).  More importantly, the process 
saw a transition in the role of co-financiers, from providers of finance to partners substantially engaged in the 
preparation of the operations and the policy dialogue with government.  This dialogue is organized by policy 
areas, in which donors engage selectively, based on their interests and technical capacity on the ground.
 
The volume of resources mobilized so far is not negligible.  About US$ 1.5 billion have been committed 
in budget support over the first six PRSC operations.  Of this amount, some US$ 1.3 billion have already been 
disbursed, with the rest to follow before June 2008 (Table 2).  Over the ten PRSC operations, some US$ 3.3 
billion could be channeled to a very successful reformer. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The rapid growth and structural transformation associated with Vietnam’s transition to a market economy 
does raise issues of environmental sustainability. To address these concerns PRSC operations have contained 
policy actions aimed at strengthening environmental management and encouraging the sustainable use of natural 
resources.  In the proposed operation, following the SEDP, environmental and natural resource management is 
viewed as a key pillar of the reform agenda. Supporting analytical work by the Bank, including the Country 
Environmental Assessment, as well as analyses of Poverty-Environment Nexus and biodiversity, are employed to 
better understand environmental impacts, identifying gaps in the existing institutional arrangements and 
incentives necessary for improved environmental governance.  The government has developed a regulatory 
framework for environmental impact assessments, standards and compliance monitoring with the overall 
responsibility under the Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment.  Though its present field level capacity is 
limited, the government appears committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity 
building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical investment projects 
addressing environmental issues.  Donor support for national environmental programs is strong and covers a 
diverse range of initiatives across many sectors. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Martin G. Rama 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (84 4) 9346600 – ext. 224 
Fax: (84 4) 9346597 
Email: Mrama@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
