                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank


                                                                    Report No: 63361-MZ




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                          ON A

                   PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING
                               OF
      MOZAMBIQUE WATER PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRACTS - OBA FOR
                 COVERAGE EXPANSION PROJECT
                            GRANT
                          April 3, 2008

                                        TO THE

                         THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE


                                    January 13, 2012




Water and Urban Unit
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of January 10, 2011)

                   Currency Unit = New Meticais (Mtn)

                         US$1.00 =    27.06 Mtn

                         US$1.53 = SDR1.00


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


EIB     European Investment Bank
EU      European Union
FIPAG   Fundo de Investimento e Património do Abastecimento de ?gua (Water
        Supply Investment Fund)
GPOBA   Global Partnership on Output Based Aid
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IMVA    Independent Monitoring and Verification Agent
ISR     Implementation Status Report
OBA     Output Based Aid
PDO     Project Development Objectives
TF      Trust Fund




                         Vice President:      Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                         Sector Director:     Jamal Saghir
                       Country Director:      Laurence C. Clarke
                        Sector Manager:       Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                      Task Team Leader:       Luiz Claudio Tavares


                                     ii
                          MOZAMBIQUE
        MOZAMBIQUE WATER PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRACTS - OBA FOR
                      COVERAGE EXPANSION
                             P104945
                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                    Page
A.    SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1

B.    PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 1

C.    PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 3

D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY.................................................................................................... 6

ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 8

ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ......................................................................... 9

ANNEX 3: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE ...................................................................... 12




                                                                  iii
     MOZAMBIQUE WATER PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRACTS - OBA FOR
                   COVERAGE EXPANSION

                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

1.      The purpose of this Paper is to propose the restructuring of Grant Agreement No.
TF091213 by modifying the development objectives, revising the components,
reallocating the Grant proceeds between components, cancelling US$1.0 million, and
extending the closing date of the Grant from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2014.
Moreover, this Restructuring Paper is to request a waiver for the lack of compliance with
paragraphs 3(a) and (b) of Operational Policy 13.301.

2.      The original PDO is to assist low income households with subsidized yard
connections to the water distribution network in Maputo and four secondary cities (the
northern cities of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba). The re-structured Grant would
re-allocate the existing funds from the four northern cities to Maputo. Poor households
who cannot afford to pay connection costs are currently excluded from the water
network. The amount financed by the Grant is the difference between the cost of the
connection and the contribution paid by poor households.

3.      The Grant – US$6 million - was signed on April 3, 2008 and became effective on
July 1, 2008. To date, commitments stand at US$1.2 million and disbursements at
US$0.4 million. The execution of the Grant has suffered delays due to the effect of
factors all beyond the control of the Recipient, Fundo de Investimento e Património do
Abastecimento de ?gua , the Water Supply Investment Fund (FIPAG).

4.     The project’s target of 28,950 connections represents an increase equivalent to
about 18% in the direct water coverage in Maputo, the largest urban area of the country.
The population of Maputo represents about 20% of the total urban population in
Mozambique. These connections increase the Government’s ability to achieve the
Millennium Development Goals in 2015 for the water sector.



B. PROJECT STATUS

Background

5.      The Grant – US$6 million - was signed on April 3, 2008 and became effective on
July 1, 2008. To date, the commitments stand at US$1.2 million with about US$0.4
million in disbursements. The execution of the Grant has suffered delays due to the effect
of factors related to: (i) the market failure during the selection of new operators for the
four secondary cities, (ii) discrepancies between the Disbursement Table in the Grant

1
 Paragraphs 3(a) – The project objectives continue to be achievable
Paragraph 3(b) – The performance of the Recipient and other project implementing agencies is satisfactory.
                                                    1
Agreement and the Disbursement Letter and (iii) restructuring delays, all beyond the
control of the Recipient Fundo de Investimento e Património do Abastecimento de ?gua
– Water Supply Investment Fund (FIPAG).

Market Failure

6.      In the early phase of the project, the procurement process for selecting new water
operators for the four secondary cities has failed (August 2009) as no qualified bids were
received. The bidding process coincided with the international financial crisis of 2009
limiting the interest of qualified bidders. As the Grant Agreement requires that the water
operator be ring-fenced or private operator, continuing to operate the water systems under
direct public administration was not acceptable, the Project was rated unsatisfactory at
that juncture.

Discrepancies between Legal Documents

7.     At the same time in Maputo (November 2009), the Independent Monitoring and
Verification Agent required by the Grant was selected and the new connections for the
low-income households started to be implemented. After the first disbursement was
requested to the Bank, the disbursement team (CTRLA) rejected the withdrawal
application from the Government on the basis of discrepancies between the Disbursement
Table in the Grant Agreement, the Disbursement Letter, and the main text in the Grant
Agreement.

Restructuring Delays

8.      On March 24, 2010, the Recipient (FIPAG) requested the reallocation of
US$4,430,000 from the four northern cities (Part B of the Project) to Maputo (Part A of
the Project) and extension of the closing date. However, the team was advised that the
proposed restructuring (mainly the reallocation of the Grant proceeds between
components) should not be considered at that time, and should await further evidence of
progress of Component A, in Maputo. This position of delaying the restructuring was
also justified on two additional considerations: (i) due to the delay in the EIB/ EU
financed project, there was no additional water to be distributed in Maputo at the time
and (ii) the performance of the operator, AdM, was deemed to be less than satisfactory at
that stage.

9.      As of today, however, these two challenges have being adequately addressed
where the main component of the EIB/EU financed project came on line on December
16, 2011 with additional water being provided to Maputo, and the operator, AdM2 was
recently restructured - with FIPAG holding 73% of shares. Since the ADM restructuring
(December 2010), more than 30,000 connections were installed in Maputo, including
5,500 GPOBA connections in the low-income areas. Additionally, AdM’s improved
performance can also be noted in the volume of water sold in 2011 which increased by
37% with relation to 2010. These indicators suggest that it is therefore highly likely that


2
    AdM remains a private company operating under commercial principles, governed by Mozambican law.
                                                    2
AdM will deliver the additional 20,900 connections in the proposed two and half year
extension.

Change in the Implementation Status of the Project

10.     The project was remained unsatisfactory because of the inability to achieve the
original PDO under the current Grant Agreement. Once the PDO is changed, thereby
reducing the number of cities to one, the PDO could be achieved, resulting in a
satisfactory rating. It should also be noted that FIPAG has prepared and shared with the
Bank an action plan to address some of the weaknesses identified in its audit report. The
Bank team reviewed the plan and its implementation during the December 2011 mission
and noted that this plan is being satisfactorily implemented.

11.     Recent Changes in AdM management: On December 28, 2010, FIPAG signed an
agreement with ?guas de Portugal for the acquisition of ?guas de Portugal’s shares in
the private operator in Maputo (AdM). This transaction took place with technical
assistance from the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and as a result FIPAG now
holds 73% of shares of AdM, becoming the majority shareholder of the company.
However, AdM remains a company operating under commercial principles, governed by
Mozambican law, company statutes and internal regulations. AdM will continue to fulfil
all conditions of the original Lease Contract with FIPAG until 2014.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

12.     FIPAG believes that the OBA program is critical to the population of Maputo.
These connections increase the Government’s ability to achieve the Millennium
Development Goals in 2015 for the water sector. FIPAG is implementing a number of
actions to increase the quantity of water available for delivery to customers in Maputo 3,
such as reduction of non revenue water and identified illegal connections. The main
objective of this proposed restructuring.

             Project Development Objectives: Due to the failure of the recruitment of
             private operators in Beira, Nampula, Pemba, and Quelimane, the number of
             cities should be reduced to one, i.e. Maputo. As a result of the restructuring, it
             is necessary to change the development objective to reflect the reduction in
             cities in the project as follows.

                        Original PDO                      Revised PDO with Restructuring
          The objective of the Project is to increase     The objective of the Project is to
          piped-water access to the poor in the           increase access to piped water for the
          Recipient's cities of Maputo, Beira,            poor in the Recipient's city of
          Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba by                Maputo.
          providing Output-Based Payments to
          Private Operators.


3
 With the technical assistance of Vitens Evides International, and financial support of the Government of
the Kingdom of Netherlands
                                                     3
     Results/indicators: See Annex 1

     Components: The restructured project will continue with the original
     activities contained in Part A of the project and scale-up the number of
     subsidized connections in Maputo. The number of connections to be
     subsidized will be maintained at 28,950 connections, as stated in the Grant
     Agreement - but all in Maputo. In the recent 6 months, AdM has increased
     connections in the low-income areas of the project at a rate of about 1,000
     households per month. It is therefore highly realistic that AdM will be able to
     complete the project targets in the proposed extension of time. The
     restructured components are summarized below:

                                                          Revised Project Parts with
          Original Project Parts
                                                                Restructuring
Part A: Program for Maputo                      Part A: Program for Maputo
Provision of Output Based Payments to AdM       Provision of GPOBA Subsidy to AdM for
for expanding piped-water access to             expanding piped-water access to
approximately 143,000 people, subject to: (i)   approximately 28,950 subsidized
delivery of functioning yard taps; and (ii)     connections, subject to: (i) delivery of
demonstration of continued service for a        functioning yard taps; (ii) demonstration of
minimum period of three months.                 continued service for a minimum period of
                                                three months, and (iii) verification of
                                                completed yard-tap connections and service
                                                delivery, including financial audits.

Part B: Program for Beira. Pemba.               Deleted
Quelimane. and Nampula
Provision of Output Based Payments to
Private Operators for expanding piped water
access to approximately 325,000 people,
subject to: (i) delivery of functioning yard-
taps; and (ii) demonstration of continued
service for a minimum period of three
months.

Part C: Verification of completed yard-tap Moved under Part A
connections and service delivery. Carrying
out of technical verification of a sample of
yard taps installed and service being
delivered in the last three month period.


     Safeguards: No change.

     Institutional arrangements: No change. FIPAG will be responsible for the
     institutional aspects of the project. The Independent Monitoring and
     Verification Agent (IMVA) will continue to verify the connections to be paid


                                          4
   by the GPOBA subsidy. The subsidized GPOBA connections will be installed
   by the operator of Maputo.

    Financing:

   o Project Costs: See the following table.

                          Project Costs (US$m.)
            Components/Activities               Current                 Proposed

   A. Program for Maputo                                  1.2              5.0
   B. Program for Beira, Pemba, Quelimane, and           4.43              0.0
      Nampula
   C. Verification of completed yard tap                 0.37              0.0
      connections and service delivery
      Total Project Costs                                6.0               5.0

   o Financing Plan: No change

   o Disbursement arrangements: No change in terms or arrangements.

   o Reallocations: See Annex 2.

   o Cancellations: In order to keep the same number of connections agreed
     with the GPOBA Expert Panel, 28,950 subsidized connections will be
     installed in Maputo. There will be a cancellation of $1.0 million, due to
     the reduction in the unit cost of the subsidized connections to be installed
     in Maputo, compared with the unit cost of the four cities (Beira,
     Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba).

Financial management: No change. Further, there are no overdue audit reports
and FIPAG has prepared and shared with the Bank an action plan to address some
of the weaknesses identified in its audit report. The action plan was reviewed
during the last supervision mission of December 2011 and the implementation
considered satisfactory.

Procurement: No change. FIPAG will be responsible for procuring consultant
services for supervising the installation of the subsidized GPOBA connections
and the operator will use its own procedures to install the subsidized GPOBA
connections.

Closing date: An extension of the original project closing date from December 31,
2011, to June 30, 2014, to achieve the overall commitment to subsidize 28,950
connections for low-income households. The need for an extension is the result
of the delays in the Maputo Water Supply Project financed by EIB and EU. See
Annex 3.


                                    5
       Implementation schedule: The supervision costs of this project are covered by
       GPOBA. The proposed implementation plan is set forth in the table below:

                                 Implementation Plan




D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

13.     The restructuring requested by the Recipient will maintain the overall impact of
the project as agreed by the International Development Association, on behalf of the
(GPOBA) Trust Fund (TF) Administrator, and signed by the Recipient.. In addition, the
requested project restructuring does not result in any changes to the various technical or
safeguard sections of the appraisal summary of the GPOBA Commitment Document, nor
does it contain any controversial issues and/or risks including Bank safeguards.

14.      In order to keep the same number of connections agreed with the GPOBA Expert
Panel, 28,950 subsidized connections are proposed to be installed in Maputo, in lieu of
the other four northern cities. The cost of the subsidy per connection remains as per the
appraisal amount for Maputo, e.g. US$150 per connection, the lowest among the five
cities. It is estimated that some 18 people benefit from each connection providing a
subsidy of US$8.4 per capita. This subsidy was estimated to range from US11 to
US$14.6 for the other four cities. It is to be noted that to date some 8,100 connections
have already been completed in Maputo.

                                            6
15.     The original economic analysis considered benefits arising from time savings
from lower collection and wait time and health savings in the form of productive days
gained and costs saved on treating water borne diseases (these health benefits were
quantified from WHO estimates – in the absence of primary beneficiary data). The
queuing time for water collection (for a 20 liter bucket) in Maputo was estimated to be on
average 13 minutes at a public stand post. The economic analysis for Maputo - based on a
12% discount rate and benefits projected over a 10 year period - provided an estimated
economic rate of return of 12% and a financial IRR of 10%. The original economic
analysis for Maputo remains valid for the restructured project as all the assumptions in
the original analysis remain fully valid.




                                            7
                                                                       ANNEX 1
                                                           Results Framework and Monitoring
                                      Mozambique: Mozambique Water Private Sector Contracts - OBA for coverage expansion


 Project Development Objective (PDO): The objective of the Project is to increase piped-water access to the poor in the Recipient's cities of Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba by providing Output-
                                                                                      Based Payments to Private Operators.

                                 Revised Project Development Objective: The objective of the Project is to increase access to piped water for the poor in the Recipient's city of Maputo,

                                             D=Dropped                                                    Cumulative Target Values**
                                      Core   C=Continue
                                                              Unit of                                                                                                            Data Source/     Responsibility for
PDO Level Results Indicators*                 N= New                         Baseline                                                                        Frequency
                                                              Measure                                                                                                            Methodology       Data Collection
                                              R=Revised                                        YR 1          YR 2            YR 3            YR4

  Indicator One: Subsidized                       C            No. of            0            2,270          8,000          20,000          28,950           Quarterly         Project progress        FIPAG
  connections type yard taps                                    taps                                                                                                           reports from the
serving families with continued                                                                                                                                                  Independent
water services for three months                                                                                                                                                Monitoring and
                                                                                                                                                                                 Verification
                                                                                                                                                                                Agent (IMVA)
        Indicator Two:                            N           Number             0            36,093        127,200         318,000        460,305          Semi-annual          Semi-annual           FIPAG
 People provided with access to                                                                                                                                                    Report
  “Improved Water Sources?                                                                    18,047         64,872         162,180        234,755
  under the project (number) 4
                                                                                              INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

                                                                              Intermediate Result (Component One): Yard taps in Maputo
                        Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): Subsidized connections type yard taps installed in Maputo by providing Output-Based Payments to Private Operators


 Intermediate Result indicator                    C            No. of           0             2,270          8,000          20,000          28,950           Quarterly         Project progress        FIPAG
            One:                                                taps                                                                                                           reports from the
Number of subsidized yard taps                                                                                                                                                   Independent
          installed5                                                                                                                                                           Monitoring and
                                                                                                                                                                                 Verification
                                                                                                                                                                                Agent (IMVA)
                                                  N           Number            0               1              1               1              1                                Project progress         AdM
 Intermediate Result indicator                                                                                                                                                 reports from the
              Two:                                                                                                                                                               Independent
Water utilities that the project is                                                                                                                                            Monitoring and
     supporting (number)                                                                                                                                                         Verification
                                                                                                                                                                                Agent (IMVA)

                                                          *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                                            **Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually


       4
         The number of people provided with access to improved water sources is also the number of direct project beneficiaries. Hence, this indicator will also provide data for the core
       indicator: Direct project beneficiaries (number), and the percent of which are female. The number of direct project beneficiaries is determined by the number of subsidized connections
       type yard taps connections, multiplied by 3 households per yard tap (data from the GPOBA Commitment Paper of June 05, 2007- studies from Stanford University of a selected peri-
       urban area of Maputo indicate that the average could 4 and the mean 6.17- Sept 2010), and by the average household size of about 5.3 (data from the National survey dated of 2007).
       The number of female beneficiaries is estimated according to national level at 51 percent (data from the National survey dated of 2007).
       5
         This indicator will provide data for the mandatory core indicator New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project intervention (number) which will
       be included in the ISR.
                                        ANNEX 2
                                  Reallocation of Proceeds

MOZAMBIQUE — MOZAMBIQUE WATER PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRACTS -
              OBA FOR COVERAGE EXPANSION
                         P104945
                    Restructuring Paper

1.      Proceeds for Mozambique, Mozambique Water PRIVATE SECTOR
CONTRACTS - OBA FOR COVERAGE EXPANSION, Grant No P104945, will be
reallocated as follow:

                          Amount of     Amount of     Percentage      Percentage of
                          the Grant     the Grant           of        Expenditures
      Category             Allocated     Allocated   Expenditures          to be
                          (expressed    (expressed        to be          Financed
                           in USD)       in USD)       Financed        (inclusive of
                                                      (inclusive of       Taxes)
                                                         Taxes)
                           Current       Revised        Current          Revised

(1) Goods and works       1,200,000       89,628        100%
    under Part A of the
    Original Project

(2) Goods, works and      4,430,000         0           100%
    services (other
    than Consultants’
    services) under
    Part B of the
    Original Project

(3) Consultants’           370,000        31,345        100%
    Services under
    Part C of the
    Original Project

(4) GPOBA Subsidy             0         4,350,000                        100%
    for water supply
    connections under
    the Project, at a
    rate of $150
    equivalent per
    connection

(5) Consultant                0          529,027                         100%
    Services
    (including
    financial audits)




                                             9
             Subtotal    6,000,000     5,000,000


    Amount Cancelled         0         1,000,000



         ORIGINAL        6,000,000     6,000,000
          AMOUNT



Briefly summarize project implementation progress.

2.      The progress in implementing the connections financed by the GPOBA is
unsatisfactory. In Maputo, the selection of the IMVA to verify outputs, namely yard taps,
made by the water operator of Maputo (AdM), was only signed on July 20, 2009. During
the first round of procurement process, only two firms submitted expressions of interest
by closing date of February 6, 2009 and due to the poor response, a repeat advertisement
was launched on February 18, 2009. At the new closing date of March 6, 2009, a total of
seven proposals were received. The second selection process was successful and in
November 2009, the implementation of the connections started. At that time, it was
estimated that it would be possible to install up to 500 connections /month.

3.      In 2010, the operator submitted the 2010 GPOBA Implementation Plan, in which
there was an indication of the potential to connect an average of 450 connections /month
in the project area, implying that the target of 8,000 connections would be achievable.
However, progress until December 2010 remained behind schedule since the operator,
AdM, was experiencing a range of problems related to the availability of water due to the
two-year delay in the implementation of the Maputo Water Supply Project financed by
EIB and EU. On December 28, 2010 FIPAG signed an agreement with ?guas de Portugal
for the acquisition of ?guas de Portugal’s shares in AdM. This transaction was
completed with IFC technical assistance and as a result, FIPAG now holds 73% stake in
AdM, becoming the majority shareholder of the company. However, AdM remains a
company operating under commercial principles, governed by the Mozambican law,
company statutes and internal regulations. AdM will continue to fulfil all conditions of
the original Lease Contract with FIPAG until 2014.

4.      The proposed reallocation is necessary to allow for the new strategy of FIPAG
and AdM to materialize and deliver the expected results (28950 subsidized connections),
given the effect of circumstances related to the project implementation process beyond
the control of the recipient, mainly the international financial crisis, which was not
anticipated at the signing of the Grant Agreement. These circumstances are explained
below.

5.      The implementing arrangements as set forth in Schedule 2 of the Grant
Agreement specified that FIPAG shall establish and maintain lease contracts with
selected operators in the target cities (Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba)
and follow the procedures set forth in the agreed Operating Manual. However, for
reasons which are well documented in the Bank’s ISRs, the procurement process for the

                                           10
contracts with the private operators in the cities of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and
Pemba were not successful. The procurement process started in early 2008, and the
prequalification proposals for prospective operators were received on March 11, 2008.
However, for reasons beyond the control of FIPAG, the procurement process of new
operators was declared unsuccessful on August 8, 2009 and the operations of the water
supply systems in those cities are being managed by FIPAG on a temporary basis until
new operators is organized.

6.        FIPAG believes that the OBA program is critical to the population of Maputo and
officially requested, on March 24, 2010 and on August 25, 2011, that the proceeds
initially allocated for Part B of the project be reallocated to Part A in order to increase the
impact on the residents of Maputo. The proposed new targets are feasible for the
following reasons:


       (i)     The Maputo Water Supply Project is expected to be fully completed at the
               end of 2012, improving the availability of water supply to Maputo, and
               producing enough capacity to install more than 38,000 new connections
               in Maputo.

       (ii)    Since the ADM restructuring in December 2010, more than 30,000
               connections were installed in Maputo, including 5,500 GPOBA
               connections in the low-income areas. Additionally, AdM’s improved
               performance can also be noted in the volume of water sold in 2011 which
               increased by 37% with relation to 2010.




                                              11
                                             ANNEX 3
                                      Extension of Closing Date

    MOZAMBIQUE — MOZAMBIQUE WATER PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRACTS -
                  OBA FOR COVERAGE EXPANSION
                             P104945
                        Restructuring Paper

1.     The closing date for Mozambique, Mozambique Water PRIVATE SECTOR
CONTRACTS - OBA FOR COVERAGE EXPANSION, Grant No P104945 will be
extended from December 31, 2011 until June 30, 2014.

2.      The implementation progress and the progress toward achieving the PDO are
unsatisfactory. However, given government’s decision to have FIPAG acquire the
private operator in Maputo (AdM), the commitment of the management of FIPAG to
install more connections for low income customers, and the completion of the Maputo
Water Supply Project in late 2012 that will increase the quantity of water available for
delivery in Maputo, the likelihood of the project achieving the restructured PDO is
strong.

3.      The proposed extension is necessary to allow for the new strategy of FIPAG and
AdM to materialize and deliver the expected results, given the effect of circumstances
beyond the control of the Recipient delaying the project implementation process, (e.g.
the financial crisis and delays in the completion of the Maputo Water Supply Project)
which was not anticipated at the signing of the Grant Agreement.

4.      FIPAG believes that the OBA program is critical to the population of Maputo.
These connections increase the Government’s ability to achieve the Millennium
Development Goals in 2015 for the water sector. FIPAG is implementing a number of
actions to increase the quantity of water available for delivery to customers in Maputo 6.
FIPAG is implementing a number of actions to increase the quantity of water available
for delivery to customers in Maputo, with the technical assistance of Vitens Evides
International, and financial support of the Government of the Kingdom of Netherlands. In
addition, FIPAG has developed an implementation plan to be executed in the near future
which will enable the operator to begin a more aggressive program to proceed with both
the original 8,000 connections and also support the requested reallocation of funds from
the other four cities to Maputo to support an additional 20,950 connections. To support
the action plan has been developed, but the plan indicates that the requested extension of
the grant closing date is needed in order to complete the expected 28,950 connections.

5.     This will be the first extension of the project and it is expected that all remaining
funds will be disbursed within the remaining implementation period.




6
 With the technical assistance of Vitens Evides International, and financial support of the Government of
the Kingdom of Netherlands
                                                    12
