 IEG
                                                                                                     Report Number: ICRR14716

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                           Date Posted: 04/28/2015

               Country: Mozambique
             Project ID: P104945                                                         Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Mozambique Water                 Project Costs (US$M):                          6.0                     4.8
                         Private Sector
                         Contracts - Oba For
                         Coverage
  L/C Number:                                             Loan/Credit (US$M):                          6.0                     4.8
      Sector Board:      Water                            Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                     06/19/2007
                                                                 Closing Date:                12/31/2011            06/30/2014
          Sector(s):        Water supply (100%)
          Theme(s):         Urban services and housing for the poor (100%)


Prepared by:                Reviewed by:              ICR Review                   Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva           Peter Nigel Freeman       Christopher David            IEGPS1
                                                      Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Original Objective: "to increase piped- water access to the poor in the Recipient’s cities of Maputo, Beira, Nampula,
Quelimane, and Pemba by providing Output- Based Payments to Private Operators." (Grant Agreement dated April 3,
2008, Schedule 1)

The Global Partnership on Output Based Aid's (GPOBA*) Commitment Paper p.10 (in lieu of Project Appraisal
Document) provides additional detail in terms of the number of beneficiaries and the conditionality of the output-
based payment, as follows: "to increase piped water access to about 470,000 poor Mozambicans living in five cities –
Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba – by providing an output based subsidy to private operators after
their delivery of functioning yardtaps and the demonstration of continued service for a period of time."

* The Global Partnership on Output Based Aid (GPOBA) is a partnership of donors working together to support output-based aid
approaches to improve the delivery of basic services to the poor. The partnership was established by the UK's Department for
International Development (DFID) as a multi-donor trust fund administered by the World Bank.

Revised Objective: "to increase access to piped water for the poor in the Recipient’s city of Maputo.” (Amendment
No.1 to the Grant Agreement dated February 8, 2012 and countersigned February 23, 2012; Schedule 1)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 02/12/2012

c. Components:
Component 1: Program for Maputo (appraisal US$1.2 million; actual US$5 million) included the provision of payments
based on verified yardtap connections and three months of water service to low-income households in Maputo.

Component 2: Program for Beira, Pemba, Quelimane, and Nampula (appraisal US$4.43 million; actual US$0 million)
included the provision of payments based on verified yardtap connections and three months of water service to
low-income households in the cities of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba. The component was dropped at
restructuring in 2012.

Component 3: Verification of completed yard tap connections and service delivery (appraisal US$0.37 million; actual
US$0 million) comprised technical assistance for the verification of the outputs under components 1 and 2. The
component was merged into the first component under program for Maputo.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The actual project cost was US$4.77 million, 80% of the appraisal estimate of US$6 million, as a result
of restructuring of the project to focus only on one city of Maputo (more details in Section 3b).

Financing: The original GPOBA grant was US$6 million, which did not include an additional $170,000 financed by
GPOBA for direct Bank supervision costs (ICR, p.4). At closure, the grant disbursed at US$4.77 million.

Borrower contribution : There was no Recipient's contribution.

Dates: The project closing date was extended by 30 months from the original closing date of December 31, 2011 to
June 30, 2014 during restructuring in February 2012. The restructuring was initiated in response to a formal request
from the Government (dated March, 2010), to reallocate US$4.43 million from the secondary cities to Maputo, as
private-sector operators were not engaged for the secondary cities as envisaged in the design (ICR, p.3). The
restructuring was approved two months after the original closing date, and as explained by the ICR p.19, processing
of the restructuring was intentionally delayed, as per guidance of Bank management, until the original Maputo-
specific objectives were achieved.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Original Objective
Substantial.
The original project development objective was consistent with the Government's development priorities identified in
the second Plan for Alleviation of Absolute Poverty-PARPA II (2006-2009). In 2007, the Government of Mozambique
established a Delegated Management Framework to allow participation of the private sector in the management of
water supply services in order to improve public services, as well as increased coverage of the population. This
framework separates assets from operations, contracts out operations management to private sector operators, and
has oversight by a regulatory body. Aguas de Mozambique (AdM) was the operator of the largest urban water supply
system in the country servicing Maputo under a lease contract expiring in 2014; it was also the operator of the four
cities - Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba - under management contracts expiring in 2007. It was expected that
operations for these cities would continue to be managed by the private sector, under new lease contracts, which
were under procurement at the time of appraisal. The objectives were also relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership
Strategy FY2004-2007 at appraisal, which focused on assisting Mozambique in the implementation of sector reforms
and investment financing to expand access, improve quality of services and support long-term operational
sustainability.

Revised Objective
Substantial.
The project revised objective was relevant to the Government's development priorities and the Bank's Country
Partnership Strategy FY2012-2015 , which recognized that water service remained a major challenge in the country
and aimed at improved provision of water and sanitation service under its overarching goal of broad-based, inclusive,
and pro-poor growth.
 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Objective
Modest.
The project was designed to target poor households who could not afford to pay up-front connection costs. At the time
of project preparation, households were expected to pay the full cost of connections, which ranged from an average of
US$167 equivalent per connection in Maputo to US$241 equivalent per connection in Beira. To increase piped water
access to the poor in Maputo and selected cities, the project was intended to provide output based payments for
low-income household connections through reimbursements of the cost of connections to private operators, after their
delivery of (i) functioning yard-taps, and (ii) demonstration of the continued service for a period of time (three months).
The agreed connection costs were reimbursed by the project upon verification by the Independent Monitoring and
Verification Agent (IMVA).

Several factors, however, were not sufficiently taken into account, as assessed by the ICR p.7. In particular, private
contracts were not in place in the secondary cities, and in the end did not materialize; there was limited water
availability due to slower-than-expected waterworks rehabilitation that restricted the rate of connections until 2012;
and the beneficiary targeting criteria (housing quality as a proxy for poverty) was considered to be very specific that
excluded numerous low-income households. These factors led to project delays and resulted in the need for
restructuring. In addition, as noted by the ICR p.21, the private-sector operator was openly unwilling to make con
nections to low-income customers despite the project. The project subsidized low-income households to connect to
the water system, but was not designed to incentivize the operator to pursue such connections. Under the
arrangements for new connections at the time of project design and initial implementation, an OBA payment was at a
disadvantage compared to “regular” connections, whereby the operator was paid up-front. The operators were
expected to pre-finance the cost but risked the possibility that they would not receive full payment after a delay of 6 to
9 months. However, a Government's policy change for payment arrangements during implementation made the
Output Based Aid (OBA) payment more attractive to the operator (ICR, p.22-23).

Revised Objective:
Substantial.
The revised project design excluded support in the four secondary cities, as was reflected in the revised project
objective. As the project implementation was structured around private-sector operators in these cities,
implementation could not proceed without contracting to the private sector (ICR, p.7). Also, as the original connection
target for Maputo (8,000 connections) could not be met within the originally targeted Laulane service area (early
implementation experience indicated that there were insufficient eligible households within the service area to meet
project objectives), the Bank approved expansion of the geographic area to the whole of Maputo and Matola in early
2010. The slow rate of connections was also affected by the water utility's cash flow constraints that were insufficient
to bridge the up-to-nine-month period between the purchase of materials and the reimbursement of 70 percent of the
subsidy amount after verification (ICR, p.8). The beneficiary eligibility criteria was modified in mid- 2013 with respect
to the housing quality criteria to ensure that certain low-income residents were not excluded based on the original
criteria (ICR, p.7). The restructured project incorporated provision of payments that enabled eligible households to
benefit from the connection subsidy; these activities were consistent with the objective of increasing access to piped
water for the poor in the city of Maputo.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Original Objective: to increase piped- water access to the poor in the Recipient’s cities of Maputo , Beira, Nampula,
Quelimane, and Pemba by providing Output Based Payments to Private Operators . Modest.

Outputs
  The original target of 8,000 subsidized yard taps installed in Maputo was exceeded by project closure: 30,764.
  The original target of 20,950 subsidized yard taps in the cities of Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba was
    not achieved.


Outcome
  29,541 of subsidized yard tap connections serving low-income customers in Maputo were verified as receiving
    three month of water service, exceeding the original target of 8,000.
  The outcome target for the secondary cities was not achieved, as the related project activities were cancelled.
  163,357 beneficiaries in urban areas were provided with access to improved water sources under the project.
    The original target of 468,000 people was estimated on the assumption that three households would be sharing a
    connection (5.31 persons/household). This changed, however, during implementation; the final survey at
    completion indicated that each yard tap was being used predominantly by a single household, with some but
    limited sharing. The indicator was not updated to reflect this change. The ICR finds if this assumption were used,
     the end target would have been exceeded (490,070) (ICR's Results Framework).


Revised Objective: to increase access to piped water for the poor in the Recipient’s city of Map uto. Substantial.

Outputs
  The revised target of 28,950 subsidized yard taps installed in Maputo was exceeded by project closure: 30,764

Outcome
  29,541 of subsidized yard- tap connections serving low-income customers in Maputo were verified as receiving t
    hree months of water service, exceeding the revised target of 28,950.

    163,357 beneficiaries in urban areas were provided with access to improved water sources under the project.
     The original target of 468,000 people was estimated on the assumption that three households would be sharing a
     connection (5.31 persons/household). This changed, however, during implementation; the final survey at
     completion indicated that each yard- tap was being used predominantly by a single household, with some but
     limited sharing. The indicator was not updated to reflect this change. The ICR finds if this assumption were used,
     the end target would have been exceeded (490,070) (ICR's Results Framework).

    Information provided by the verification agent on a quarterly and semi-annual basis and as part of an
     end-of-project survey documented the following: post-project evaluation results indicate that the project
     beneficiaries fell in the lowest deciles of income distribution. Water quality within the formal system were
     consistently acceptable (no water has failed fecal coliform tests), and therefore beneficiaries were less likely to
     be at risk from contamination, compared to non- connected households. For beneficiary households, the time
     spent fetching water was on average only 17 minutes per day, compared to 55 -106 minutes per day for
     households without a yardtap. The household survey indicated that those time savings accrued overwhelmingly
     to women and girls (approximately 65% of time savings benefitted women, while an additional 20% benefited
     girls). The responses regarding the use of time savings indicated that 47% of time savings was used for studying,
     work or income generation, and child care. Based on the findings from the post-project household survey, 93% of
     respondents reported that they were satisfied with the water quality, while 76% are satisfied with the service
     received- the primary complaint being the hours of water availability (ICR, p.13-14).


5. Efficiency:

Original Objective:
Modest.
Under the original project objective, the benefits did not accrue to low-income households in the secondary cities as
envisaged because the related activities were cancelled. Below is the assessment for the project's efficiency in
support for the city of Maputo.

Revised Objective:
Substantial.
An ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 31% for Maputo as compared to 12% estimated at
appraisal. The difference is largely due to lower investment costs in the associated tertiary network, and to the fact
that aggregate time savings were not significantly smaller than originally assumed. However, as the ICR p.30 notes,
there were several differences in the calculation of costs and benefits in the original analysis. First, costs were
expected to be significantly higher, as the per yard tap cost of tertiary network was estimated to be US$1,200 per
yard tap (the ICR could not find any justification for costs that high, particularly as the analysis stated that it was only
for the related tertiary network, not for related increases in treatment or transmission). Second, the benefits included a
calculation of health benefits – reduction in treatment costs and an increase in productive days per year. The health
benefits were not estimated at project closure, as indications of health improvements related to the provision of yard
taps were hard to identify and it was not possible to prove causality in any case (ICR, p. 29).

Initial implementation delays in the city of Maputo were caused by weaknesses in project design (related to the
eligibility criteria) and the water utility's initial cash-flow constraints for the purchase of materials. The pace of
implementation improved with changes in the project's design, as well as financial support from the Agence Française
de Développement's (AFD) that allowed purchase of a large stock of connection materials to jump-start the
installation of new connections across Maputo (ICR, p.8).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :
                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                      Yes                                       12%                                     20%

      ICR estimate                   Yes                                       31%                                     100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original Objective: With modest relevance of design, modest efficacy and efficiency, the project development
outcome is rated Unsatisfactory.

Revised Objective: With substantial relevance of revised design, substantial efficacy and efficiency, the project
outcome is rated Satisfactory.

Based on the disbursement shares of 8% (US$0.4 million) and 92% (US$4.4 million) prior to and subsequent to
project restructuring in 2012, the overall outcome rating is Satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Financial risk. In terms of the specific project development outcomes (provision of yardtaps to low-income h
      ouseholds), the post-project review indicated that only a small percentage of beneficiary households – less than
      3%– were disconnected from the system due to non-payment of water bills. AdeM's operational cost recovery,
      however, while positive, remains low.

     Reliability of water supply . While 93% of respondents were satisfied with the water quality, only 76% are
      satisfied with the service received under the project; the primary complaint was the hours of water availability.
      Operational cost recovery for the water utility AdeM remained low at project closure, as noted by the ICR p. 18;
      this might affect the quality of services provided.

     Water availability . While water production increased, the expected reductions in unaccounted for water were not
      achieved.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
     The project was built upon earlier Bank funded projects that helped developed the initial water production,
treatment, and network facilities, as well as developed the delegated management framework for urban water
supply operations on which this GPOBA- funded project relied (i.e., the National Water Development Project I and
II). The design approach for subsidizing the cost of new yard tap connections for poor households was based on
research evidence which indicated that customers were willing and able to pay the monthly water tariffs but that
connection costs were far outside their ability to pay (ICR, p.5).

The ICR p. 5-6 identifies a number of weaknesses in project design that affected the pace of implementation and
necessitated the project restructuring (see above section 3b). The risk related to non engagement of private sector
was underestimated and no mitigation measure was identified. The project overestimated the readiness and
capacity of the incumbent operator in Maputo – AdM – to implement the project, as evidenced by the slow
implementation progress with only 1,917 households connections out of the 8,000 original target achieved by
December 2010. The ICR p. 6 adds that when AdM reverted to public-sector ownership – fully operating under
commercial principles – management re-engaged strongly in the project and was able to complete nearly 7,000
qualifying connections in 2011. The ICR p. 10 also finds that monitoring and evaluation arrangements were not
fully developed during project preparation, and there was some discrepancy within the project Commitment Paper
with respect to the ultimate outcomes expected to be achieved (beyond the formal objectives of yard taps provided
to low-income residents) and that would be tracked by the project.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project team reviewed project implementation progress through semi-annual supervision missions, which
were part of comprehensive sector wide supervision and preparation missions. The team leader and key members
were consistent throughout the project period (ICR, p.19). The team identified the issues in implementation finding
solutions to keep the project on track towards achievement of the objective, in particular through adjustment in
project design and restructuring.

The ICR p.20 notes that, while M&E results indicated that yard tap sharing was declining among project
beneficiaries, the project team did not update the 3:1 sharing assumption, and thus the target values for the
number of project beneficiaries were not adjusted in the M&E framework.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The ICR p.20 reports that the Government fully supported the proposed project, including the leasing of secondary
cities’ water systems. Overall, the Government supported the structure and framework for the sector including its
relative independence from political pressure. Under this project, the Government of Mozambique was
represented by the Water Supply Investment Fund (FIPAG), which signed the Grant Agreement with the World
Bank. FIPAG is the asset holding company, responsible for investment and financing management for
rehabilitation and expansion of water supply asset, maximization of efficiency and return on its assets, as well as
contract management, monitoring and enforcement of the contractual obligations of the operator (GPOBA
Commitment Paper, p.12).

The ICR does not provide assessment of the performance of the grant recipient, FIPAG. As inferred from the
ICR's text, the FIPAG's commitment to the project appears to be strong. According to the Project Restructuring
Paper of January 2012, the delays in project implementation were beyond the control of FIPAG (p.1). The ICR
p.10 only mentions that FIPAG was slow in submitting withdrawal requests to the Bank, but these delays did not
affect FIPAG’s reimbursement to AdeM of connection costs. The project team subsequently provided more details
with regard to the FIPAG's performance, assessing its compliance with agreements, safeguard and fiduciary
controls as satisfactory. FIPAG was proactively engaged in the project, supporting and facilitating implementation
progress. It also effectively managed the monitoring and evaluation process and was timely in the reimbursement
to AdeM for connection costs.

   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The project was implemented by the leaseholder for the Maputo water supply: first Aguas de Mozambique (AdM),
and, following the buyout of the shares of Aguas de Portugal by FIPAG, by the renamed company, Aguas da
Regiao de Maputo (AdeM).

The ICR p.21 reports that there was a steep learning curve in implementing the project. The initially slow pace of
implementation was in part due to the time it took to develop the internal procedures for identifying potential
beneficiaries, assisting households in the application process, and ensuring that yard-taps remained eligible
during the full verification process. The Bank supervision team found that the private-sector operator was openly
unwilling to make connections to low-income customers despite the project. Only once it was clear that the private
operator would be bought out by FIPAG and removed from management did the implementation progress
improve.

The performance of the implementing agency under public sector ownership was exemplary, as described by the
ICR p.21. Nearly 22,000 low-income connections were completed in the period of two and a half years, or
approximately 4,400 connections every six months. In order to meet the project implementation targets, AdeM
devised payment plans for households unable to afford the initial connection deposit of US$17, assisted potential
beneficiaries in the application process, and revised network extension plans in order to access neighborhoods
with low-income population. The ICR p.22 commends AdeM’s commitment to the project despite serious financial
constraints that included inability to finance the cost of new connections from internal funds, and considerable
under-reimbursement of staff and materials costs in project implementation (e.g., for outreach, assistance,
protective materials against equipment theft in low-income areas). According to AdeM, it had to borrow at local
commercial rates to pre-finance equipment for periods between six and nine months – at a 16 percent interest rate,
that could be more than US$ 15 equivalent per connection (ICR, p.22).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The project had a well- designed system for tracking and recording implementation progress. Annex 6 of the GPOBA
Commitment Paper specified indicators that would be collected by an independent monitoring and verification agent
(IMVA) on an annual basis. These included number of households benefiting from increased access (to piped water);
average monthly consumption or use per OBA beneficiary at the household level; average expenditure on service by
OBA beneficiaries as a percentage of total household expenditure; average residential tariff for OBA beneficiaries;
collection efficiency; and average hours per day of access to service. Baseline indicators were established by the
IMVA as part of an inception report in mid-2009.

One weakness, as noted by the ICR p.8, was related to measurement of the outcome indicator related to the number
of beneficiaries that was not revised during implementation. The number of beneficiaries was introduced as an
outcome indicator, calculated according to the assumptions at project design, i.e., three households of an average
size of 5.6 persons would use each yard-tap, therefore 468,000 people would directly benefit from the project. This
assumption appeared valid at preparation; however, given the intention of densifying the network, the ratio for sharing
was reduced during project implementation and many households in areas benefitting from subsidized connections no
longer needed to share neighbors’ connections. The final survey at completion indicated that each yardtap was being
used predominantly by a single household, with some limited sharing (ICR, p.6). The outcome target was not adjusted
to reflect this change.

While the formal project results framework indicators were limited to the number of yardtaps installed and related
beneficiaries, the project also tracked other associated impacts or outcomes through the IMVA (ICR, p.17).

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR p.9 reports that the indicators were tracked consistently on a semi-annual basis by the verification agent.
The quality of the collected data was deemed sound, and the verification agent reported clearly the source of data and
when adjustments were made in source or methodology. The associated impacts and outcomes were also
documented in the semi-annual monitoring and evaluation reviews and through an end-of-project household survey
(ICR, p.17).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   By design of an output based project, tracking of the project outputs connections to eligible low income households
was used to administer payments under the project. Overall, the project related data are a subset of data that FIPAG
tracks related to water supply in all service areas, including areas which are predominantly comprised of low-income
households. These indicators are tracked in order to monitor operator performance and to meet regulatory reporting
requirements. The ICR p.9 added that the information collected under the project provided a useful picture of water
supply to low-income recipients of the OBA subsidy over time in the different project areas.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
This was an environmental Category C project, since it involved installing only simple yard taps fed from water
distribution pipes in the roadway adjacent to the households, as was clarified by the GPOBA Commitment Paper
(Annex 4). No land acquisition was required, and the implementing agency’s contracting arrangements included
provisions for the restoration of pre-implementation conditions. The ICR p.9 reports that no environmental or
safeguards issues were identified during implementation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial management. The ICR p.10 reports that no issues arose during project implementation with
respect to financial management. It notes that FIPAG was slow in submitting withdrawal requests to the Bank, and
therefore project disbursement information did not reflect actual project implementation. These delays did not seem to
affect FIPAG’s reimbursement to AdeM of connection costs. With regard to audits, while it is assumed they were
taken care of by an independent verifying agent, the ICR is silent on this matter

Procurement. The ICR p.9 reports that no issues arose during project implementation with respect to
procurement, although difficulties in the selection/procurement of the verification agent at the start of the project
caused minor delays in project implementation. During project preparation, an up-front procurement capacity
assessment was carried out at AdM that concluded that adequate capacity existed to procure necessary materials.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate           The availability and reliability of water
                     Outcome:                                                  supply are still a concern.

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 A number of lessons were selected by IEG from a longer list identified by the ICR:

    Output based programs need to assess ability of the recipient to pre -finance investments and consider
     pre-financing support mechanisms . In Maputo, the existing operator was under severe cash constraints for a
     variety of reasons, and struggled to pay for the initial investments in connections. Investment pre-financing can
     be a significant implementation challenge, which can be addressed through a financial assessment during
     preparation and the incorporation of support mechanism, where appropriate (e.g pre-financing advances or
     ‘line of credit’ utilized under the Bank’s Program- for- Results (PforR) financing instrument).

    Output based payments do not inherently provide incentives for a change in behavior or investment . This
     project subsidized low-income households to connect to the water system, but it was not designed to
     incentivize the operator to pursue those connections. Under the arrangements for new connections at the time
     of project design and initial implementation, an OBA payment was at a disadvantage compared to “regular”
     connections. In the case of this project, an exogenous factor (change in pricing policy) helped it to be more
     attractive.

    All the costs of program implementation accruing to the operator should be factored into the OBA payments .
     Under this project, the operator believes that it incurred significant costs related to the implementation of the
     program that were not factored into the OBA payments. These included staffing and time costs related to
     program outreach, financing costs related to costs that intended beneficiaries were not able to pay, and
     pre-financing costs for materials.

    There needs to be a strong understanding of the characteristics of the intended beneficiaries . The target
     beneficiaries generally faced significant challenges in providing US$17 application/connection fee and meeting
     the bureaucratic requirements of applying for a connection. In order to implement the program, the operator
     had to develop capacity to support households with low levels of literacy and record keeping.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and outcome oriented. The quality of evidence is adequate. Lessons are evidence based and
useful. The ICR offers insightful explanations for important elements of the implementation experience, including the
project design and reasons behind the need to restructure the project. The ICR also should have assessed the
performance of FIPAG that was a Grant Recipient and signatory of the Grant Agreement with the Bank, and discuss
audits.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
