CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 170 SL
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
SIERRA LEONE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 5, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 170 SL
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
0
SIERRA LEONE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 5, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 5, 1970 between SIERRA
LEONE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist the Borrower in financing the construction and equip-
ping of replacements for or extensions to a number of its
educational institutions;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Canadian In--
ternational Development Ageicy to provide instructional
equipment for these educational institutions, and that
Agency has agreed to comply with this request;
WHEREAS the Borrower has made arrangements with the
United Nations Development Programme to provide a team
of experts to give technical assistance in developing certain
of these educational institutions; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing tn make a develop-
ment credit available to the Borrower on the terms and
conditions provided in this Development Credit Agreement;
Now THEREFORE thle parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Con-
ditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit


﻿Agreements of the Assoe'ation being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit AgreeT,ment set forth or referred to, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars
($3,000,000).
SECTIOx 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such. Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement;
(i) the equivalent of sixty-six and two-thirds per cent
(662/3%) of such amounts as shall have been paid
(or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be re-
quired to meet payments to be made) for goods


﻿or services included in Categories I, II and III of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; provided, how-
ever, that if there shall be an increase in the esti-
mate of such payments for goods or services in-
cluded in any such Category, the Association may
by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated per-
centage applicable to such Category as required in
order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit
then allocated to such Category and not withdrawn
may continue pro rata with the -ayments remaining
to be made for goods or services included in such
Category; and
(ii) such amounts as shall have been paid (or if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made under Category IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement on account of payments in the currency of the
Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTIOx 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿6
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing May 1, 1980 and ending November
1, 2019, each installment to and including the installment
payable on November 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per cent
(/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except a9 bhe Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in ac-
cordance with such other procedures supplementary thereto
as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿7
sound administrative, financial, educational and architec-
tural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish a Project Unit responsible to the Minister
of Finance, with such responsibilities, powers and
staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b) appoint by August 1, 1970 in its Ministry of Edu-
cation a properly qualified education specialist as
Principal Education Officer (Technical) to be re-
sponsible for supervision of all technical education
below University level, including staff training and
curriculum development;
(c) appoint by July 1, 1970 in its Ministry of Education
a properly qualified and experienced education spe-
cialist for all agricultural education below Univer-
sity level with responsibilities similar to those of the
official referred to in subsection (b) above;
(d) form by July 1, 1970 a Secondary Schools Inspecto-
rate under its Ministry of Education;
(e) provide by July 1, 1970 the Planning Section of its
Ministry of Education with a trained statistician and
an experienced educational planner; and
(f) assign an official to its Ministry of Education to be
responsible for regular inspection of maintenance
needs of school buildings and for close liaison with
its Ministry of Works as to the execution of mainte-
nance work.
SECTIoN 4.03. The Borrower shall employ, upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(a) consulting architects experienced in the construction
and furnishing of schools and acceptable to the Association,


﻿to be selected and retained in accordance with the proce-
dures set forth in the booklet entitled "Uses of Consultants
by the World Bank and its Borrowers," published by the
Bank in September 1966, to provide the architectural, engi-
neering and other technical services to carry out the Proj-
ect, to supervise the construction and to certify contractors'
invoices; and
(b) qualified and experienced contractors acceptable to
the Association.
SECTION 4.04. Before submitting to the Canadian Inter-
national Development Agency a list of the instructional
equipment to be provided for the Project, the Borrower
shall consult with and obtain the approval of the Associa-
tion for such list. Said list shall include, inter alia:
(i) a time schedule for phasing supply and installation
of the equipment coordinated with the progress of
construction under the Project; and
(ii) the specifications and estimated unit and total prices
of each item, each item to be coded and numbered
for identification of the school and type of space
for which the item is required.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall, before starting the
construction or iodification of any building included in the
Project, furnish to the Association for its approval, in
such detail as it shall reasonably request, a plan of such
building, indicating its architectural features and furnish-
ings. Any subsequent material modifications shall similarly
be submitted to the Association before they are imple-
mented.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall make adequate provi-
sion to insure the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards


﻿9
incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity under such
insurance to be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall endeavor to utilize
the educational institutions included in the Project at their
designed capacity and shall operate them so as to achieve
its educational objectives.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall properly maintain the
educational institutions included in the Project and for
that purpose make adequate budgetary provision.
SECTIO, 4.09. The Borrower shall recruit tirough ar-
rangements with the United Nations Development Pro-
gramme or with other sources acceptable to the Association
a technical assistance team of at least eight experts, the
leader of which is to serve for at least five years and the
other members to serve for at least three years, to assist
in the development of the technical institutes and trade
schools included in the Project and to establish a technical
teacher training program in association with the Freetown
Technical Institute and the Milton Margai Teachers' Col-
lege.
SECTION 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall, within two years
of the date of this Agreement, produce, with the assistance
of competent experts, a manpower survey, including pro-
jections of future skilled manpower requirements, for the
purpose of developing its educational system.
(b) Within one year after completion of the manpower
survey referred to in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall: (i) prepare, with the assistance of competenL experts,
a development plan for its educational system; and (ii)
complete with the assistance of competent experts, accept-
able to the Association, a revision of the secondary school


﻿10
curriculum in order to adapt this curriculum to the skilled
manpower needs of its economy.
(c) The Borrower shall introduce the revised secondary
school curriculum referred to in paragrlph (b) above no
later than one year after its completio ., into its secondary
school system.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower (i) shall maintain records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, to record the progress of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of any part
of the Project; (ii) shall enable accredited representatives
of the Association to inspect the Project, such goods and
services, and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit, such goods and services, the Project, the educa-
tional institutions included therein and the plans for their
development, and the operations, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for the carrying out of any part of the Project.
SECTION 4.12. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and
the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives
with regard to matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof, and
each of them shall furnish to the other all such information


﻿11
as it shall reasonably request with regard to the general
status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to finan-
cial and economic conditions in the territories of the Bor-
rower and the balance of payments position of the Bor-
rower.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the carrying out of the Project or the maintenance
of the service of the Credit.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.13. The principal of, and service charges or,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.14. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
tinie during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
S


﻿12
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) agreement shall have been reached on the recruit-
ment of the technical assistance team provided for
in Section 4.09 of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall have established the Project Unit
provided for in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;
and
(c) the Borrower shall have entered into agreements sat-
isfactory to the Association for the employment of
the Project Director and the Project Architect pro-
vided for in sub-paragraphs 2(a) and (b) of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The date of April 1, 1970 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02 (b)-(e), 4.07 and 4.08 of this Agreement shall
terminate on the date on which this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿13
ARTICLE VII
MisGellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1974
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
puirposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Ministry of Finance
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Cable address:
Minfin
Freetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District


﻿14
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ Jonx J. AKAR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIo
By   /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. Construction, including fixed
furnishings and fittings                 1,900,000
II. Consultant and other
professional services                     500,000
III. Furniture                                 150,000
IV. Freight of instructional equipment         65,000
V. Unallocated                                385,000
TOTAL           3,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category V.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of
Categories I to III an amount equal to 662/3%o of such
increase) will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from Cate-
gory V, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of :
(a) The construction, furnishing of:
(i) a replacement for the Freetown Teachers' Col-
lege;
(ii) extensions at:
two technical institutes;
two trade schools;
eleven secondary schools.
(b) The provision of technical assistance.
The specific educational institutions to be included in the
Project, their locations, their planned enrollment levels
and the approximate area to be constructed for each, shall
be as specified in Exhibit A of this Schedule, and the de-
tails of the technical assistance provided shall be as speci-
fied in Exhibit B of this Schedule. The specifications of both
Exhibits are subject to modification by further agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1973.


﻿17
EXHIBIT A
List of Educational Institutions
Area of new
Total planned           construction
Code.                                            enrollment              (approx.
No.       Location (Name)                       capacity*             gross sq. ft.)
(a) Primary Teachers' College
3TT       Freetown                                 250                    3,700
(Freetown Teachers' College)
(b) (i) Technical Institutes
17 TECH    Freetown                                 536                    6,100
(Technical Institute, Freetown)
20 TECH    Kenema                                   432                    7,900
(Technical Institute, Kenema)
(b) (ii) Trade Schools
18 TECH    Kissy                                    720                   20,300
(Trade Centre, Kissy)
19 TECH    Magburaka                                240                   11,300
(Trade Centre, Magburaka)
(b) (iii) Secondary Schools
5SS       Freetown                                 800                   24,200
(Bishop Johnson Memorial School)
6SS       Freetown                                 660 (60 boarders)     17,700
(Annie Walsh Memorial School)
7SS       Freetown                                 600 (40 boarders)     15,100
(Methodist Girls High School)
8SS       Freetown                                 720                    8,400
(Prince of Wales School)
loSS       Jimmi                                    400 (200 boarders)    33,100
(Government Secondary School)
liSS       Kenema                                   400 (200 boarders)    23,200
(Government Secondary School)
12SS       Magburaka                                780 (360 boarders)    21,900
(Government Secondary School for Boys)
13SS       Bumpe                                    400 (90 boarders)      7,400
(Bumpe High School)
14SS       Taiama                                   400 (110 boarders)     6,300
(Taiama Secondary School)
15SS       Kamakwie                                 400 (80 boarders)      3,400
(Kamakwie Secondary School)
16SS       Kabala                                   400 (50 boarders)      5,200
(Kabala Secondary School)
* For the institutions to be extended, the capacity indicated is the total for the extended
facility.


﻿18
EXHIBIT B
Technical Assistance
Experts                                     Man/Months
Project Architect                                48
Agricultural Education Specialists               36
Statistician                                     36
Curriculum Revision Specialists
Mathematics                                    18
Science                                         6
Social Studies                                  6
English                                         6


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
1. Construction under the Project shall be grouped so as
to make possible the formation of economic bid packages
for contracts (hereinafter called Civil Works Contracts)
and shall be phased so as to make possible a continuous
flow of work within each such package.
2. The award of contracts for procuring furniture (herein-
after called Furniture Contracts) shall be arranged and
phased in accordance with sound procurement practices
and to permit bulk purchases whenever possible.
3. Prior to inviting bids, the Borrower shall obtain the
Association's approval:
(a) with respect to the Civil Works Contracts:
(i) for a complete list of such contracts, including
the estimated value of each, an indication of
their grouping and a time-table for the"r
award;
(ii) for a list of pre-qualified contractors, including
the pre-qualification documents, a description
of pre-qualification procedures and recom-
mendations for pre-qualification;
(b) with respect to the Furniture Contracts:
(i) for lists of all items of furniture required for
the Project, including the specifications and
estimated unit and total prices of each item,
each item to be coded and numbered for iden-
tification of the school and type of space for
which the item is required.
(ii) for a schedule showing the approximate time
of procurement of major groups of items;


﻿20
(c) for the bid invitation documents, with descriptions
of the tendering procedures (including the advertis-
ing coverage); and
(d) for the proposed contract documents.
4. After bids have been received, the Borrower shall
promptly send to the Association a summary and analy-
sis of these, together with its recommendations for
awards and a justification for any award. proposed to
be made to other than the lowest bidder.
5. With respect to Furniture Contracts the Association
agrees pursuant to paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines for
Procurement referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment that where any bid is submitted by any manufie-
turer, established in the territories of the Borrower, of
furniture manufactured or processed within the terri-
tories of the Borrower to a substantial extent as deter-
mined by the Association (Local Bid), the following
rules shall be observed for the purpose of comparing
any Local Bid as thus defined to any bid other than a
Local Bid (Foreign Bid)
(a) All taxes on the importation of the furniture offered
shall first be deducted from the total of any Foreign
Bid;
(b) The portion of any Foreign Bid representing the
c.i.f. landed price of such furniture shall then be
increased by 15/ thereof or the applicable amount
of such taxes as they generally apply to non-exempt
purchasers in the territories of the Borrower for
the importation of such furniture, whichever is
lower;
(c) The figure resulting from (b) above shall be deemed
to be the price of the Foreign Bid for purposes of
comparison with the Local Bid;


﻿21
(d) If the ex-factory price of the furniture offered by
the lowest evaluated Local Bid is equal to or lower
than the comparison price of the lowest evaluated
Foreign Bid arrived at under (b) and (c) above, then
such Local Bid may be considered the lowest evalu-
ated bid for purposes of paragraph 3.9 of the said
Guidelines for Procurement; and
(e) In cases where it is recommended to award a con-
tract to a Local Bid, the bid analysis shall state the
amount of taxes referred to in (b) above and the
proportion of the c.i.f. landed price of furniture
offered under the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid rep-
resented by such amount.
6. Prior Association approval for an award shall be re-
quired only if :
(a) it involves an amount of $100,000 equivalent or more
for a Civil Works Contract or $10,000 equivalent or
more for a Furniture Contract; or
(b) it is for an amount above the lowest bid received; or
(c) it is for an amount exceeding by 107 or more the
estimated value or price approved pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) (i) or 3 (b) (i) above.
7. A certified copy of each contract shall be sent to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of that contract.
S. Without the Association's approval no change involving
either a price increase of over 5%o of the original con-
tract or over $10,000 equivalent for a Civil Works Con-
tract or over $1,000 equivalent for a Furniture Contract,
shall be made in any contract.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1. The Project Unit shall be responsible, and have the nec-
essary powers, for the execution of the Project, in close
cooperation with the Borrower's Ministries of Educa-
tion and Works, including, inter alia:
(a) the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision
of the consulting architects provided for in Section
4.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) the approval of the design of the buildings included
in the Project;
(e) the preparation of the detailed lists referred to in
paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 3 and in Section 4.04
of this Agreement;
(d) the supervision of the preparation of bidding doci-
ments for all construction work and for the pro-
curement of furniture; the analysis of bids and,
where required by Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
the making of recommendations regarding the award
of contracts;
(e) the regular inspection of all construction work; and
(f) the keeping of records, including financial records,
of the execution of the Project; and the preparatioii
of regular reports to the Association.
2. The Project Unit shall consist of :
(a) a full-time Project Director acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, who is to have over-all responsibility for
the direction and coordination of the Unit's work;
(b) a full-time Project Architect acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, who is to be particularly responsible for


﻿23
the direction and supervision, through the consult-
ing architects, of all construction work;
(c) an accountant; and
(d) administrative and secretarial staff as may be re-
quired for the carrying out of the Unit's respon-
sibilities.
3. The leader of the technical assistance team referred to
in Section 4.09 of this Agreement shall cooperate closely
with the Project Unit.


