Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3993 STP
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Governance Capacity Building Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated November 5, 2004
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3993 STP 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 2004, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Dobras” means the currency of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Financial, Administrative and Procurement Manual” means the Manual 
referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement; which details the financial management, 
administrative and procurement arrangements, organization structure (including internal 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
audit functions), staffing, standard accounting forms, books, and ledgers for the 
implementation of activities under the Project; 
(f) 
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(g) 
“National Petroleum Revenue Management” means the system to be 
established under a Borrower’s law for the administration, management and allocation of 
the petroleum revenue; 
(h) 
“NPA” means National Petroleum Agency, the agency established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 4 of January 22, 2004, which is responsible 
for, 
inter alia
,
the regulation, contract, and inspection of  the economic activities related 
to the petroleum industry; 
(i) 
“PIU” means  Project Implementation Unit, the unit established by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Finance and referred to in Paragraph A.1 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
July 7, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to 
this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(k) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03(a) of 
this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed by the 
parties on June 14, 2004; 
(m) 
“PRSP” means Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the strategy paper 
adopted by the Borrower in December 2002; 
(n) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 (b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 2014 and ending May 1, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2024 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through its Ministry of Planning and Finance with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Sections 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an 
account in Dobras in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association (the “Project Account”); 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit of Dobras equivalent to 
$50,000 into the Project Account (the “Initial Deposit”) to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution to the costs of the Project; 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, on a quarterly basis, the 
amount required to timely replenish said Project Account up to the Borrower’s 
contribution to the cost of the Project; and 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
(d) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively  to finance expenditures under the Project in addition to those financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Page  10
-
8
-
8
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as  additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:  
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the Financial, Administrative and Procurement 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
the Borrower has opened the Project Account referred to in 
 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement and deposited in the Project Account the Initial 
Deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b)  of this Agreement; 
(c) 
the Borrower has appointed an external auditor for the Project on terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association; and 
(d) 
the NPA has appointed its Executive Director and heads of its legal 
department, economic department, technical department and department of 
administration and public relations, and, it is operational; all in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Borrower’s Minister of Planning and Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério de Planeamento e Finanças  
Caixa Postal 168 
São Tomé  
 
República Democrática de São Tomé e Príncipe 
 
Facsimile:   
 
239-222182 
 
239-222372 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia and in the City of New York, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ 
AND PRÍNCIPE 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ Domingos Augusto Ferreira   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ Gobind Nankani 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDRs
)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works 
10,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 95% of local 
expenditures 
(2) Goods 
350,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 95% of local 
expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ Services   
and Audits 
1,500,000 98% 
 
(4) Training and Workshops 
680,000 
100% 
(5) Operating Costs 
220,000 
100% 
(6) Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
370,000 
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement 
(7) Unallocated 
TOTAL 
370,000 
________ 
3,500,000 
======= 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
“Training and Workshops” includes purchase of training materials, rental 
of training facilities, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem and travel costs; and 
(d) 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, 
communication and insurance costs, reasonable Special Account banking charges, rental 
expenses, office maintenance costs, office equipment maintenance, utilities, documents 
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel 
linked to the implementation of the Project and salaries of contractual staff for the 
Project, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants and  audits costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training, workshops and operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.   
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower  of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening its 
economic, financial and budgetary management and building up institutional and legal 
infrastructure in key sectors such as human and natural resources, environment, and 
finance. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Petroleum Sector
Provision of technical advisory services, goods and works for the purposes of: 
1. 
strengthening of the National Petroleum Agency through, 
inter alia
,
developing 
the agency’s structure, hiring appropriate staff for the technical, economic, legal and 
administration departments, and carrying out a training program. 
2. 
strengthening of the legal framework for the sector, including environmental 
aspects of petroleum operation. 
3. 
exploration and production of petroleum in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) 
within the Borrower’s territory, through, 
inter alia
,
improving the legal framework for 
structuring, concession, operation, and monitoring of prospective blocks; and supporting 
the promotion and market development of EEZ.   
4. 
establishing a transparent and functional information system for the National 
Petroleum Revenue Management. 
5. 
carrying out of studies and seminars to assist the Borrower in developing an 
economic model of the EEZ, study the opportunities for local content (national goods and 
services) in the sector development, and study the opportunities for job creation.   
Part B
:
Public Finance
Provision of technical advisory services and goods for the purposes of:  
1. 
strengthening of National Petroleum Revenue Management supervision across 
national institutions including the Ministry of Planning and Finance, the Central Bank, 
the National Assembly, and the Accounting Tribunal (
Tribunal de Contas
). 
2. 
harmonizing budget nomenclatures and identifying expenditures for poverty 
reduction. 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
3. 
Carrying out of an update of the Borrower’s public procurement, and treasury 
and public patrimony laws and procedures. 
4. 
Installing a simplified information system among public sector entities in the 
country as deemed necessary to facilitate public expenditure management. 
5. 
Improving budget oversight and training in public finance management in light 
of the petroleum sector. 
6. 
Developing and implementing a public accounting framework and a public 
accounting plan. 
7. 
 Carrying  out the improvement of the accounting and tax reporting practices of 
enterprises.   
8. 
Improving the Borrower’s capacity to collect fiscal revenue. 
9. 
Development of macro-economic model to help improve formulation of 
economic policies 
Part C
:
Poverty Reduction Strategy
Provision of technical advisory services and goods for the purposes of:  
1. 
Facilitating the implementation of the PRSP by supporting the directorate to 
become functional (i.e., capable to fully supervise and follow-up on the implementation 
of the PRSP goals, with regular provision of indicators). 
2. 
Carrying out of an update the PRSP document with analysis and forecasts and a 
strategy that incorporates the petroleum economy (revenues and expenditures). 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2007. 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited 
International 
Bidding
.
Procurement of the Swift banking system 
may be made under contracts awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
2.  
National  Competitive  Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding.  
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. Small 
Works
.
Works estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments of routine nature, such as 
financial audits, that meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) the first 
two contracts for goods procured under National Competitive bidding; (b) any contract 
procured under Limited International Bidding; (c) each contract for goods and services 
(other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; (d) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000; (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; (f) each contract 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
for consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (g) each contract to be awarded on a sole-source 
basis.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
(a) 
 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, with structure, functions and responsibilities, and with 
competent staff in adequate numbers and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, 
for the purpose of assisting in the carrying out of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain the NPA, throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, with structure, functions and responsibilities, and with 
competent staff in adequate numbers and qualifications satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, requirements and procedures set out in the Financial, Administrative 
and Procurement Manual; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived, the Financial, Administrative and Procurement Manual or any provisions thereof, 
in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association may materially and adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project. 
B. 
Monitoring and Reporting
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about January 30 and June 30 of 
each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph B.1 (a) of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of each said report  
(including in respect of training activities under the Project) and setting out the measures 
recommended (including in respect of training activities under the Project) to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February and July of each year, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph B.1(b) of 
this Section, and thereafter act promptly and diligently in order to take, or cause to be 
taken, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project, or to implement such measures as may have been 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
agreed between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project. 
C. Midterm 
Review
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than  
June 30, 2006 a comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (i) documenting progress 
toward achieving the Project objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs, to reflect progress achieved (including in respect of training 
activities) in the implementation of the Project as of the date of the review; and (iv) an 
overall evaluation of the Project against the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.   
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the midterm review 
referred to in paragraph C.1 above, furnish to the Association a midterm report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in the Project implementation.  
3. 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Borrower shall take, or cause 
to be taken, all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said 
review for the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, 
taking into account the Association’s comments thereon. 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for the 
Project implementation are as follows: 
1. 
By December 31, 2004, implementation of the National Petroleum Revenue 
Management Law has started.  
2. 
By June 30, 2005, a functioning legal and institutional structure is in place to 
carry out the implementation of the PRSP. 
3. 
By December 31, 2005,  the public accounting framework and the public 
accounting plan are partially functional. 
4. 
By December 31, 2005, the budget nomenclature is adopted and implemented. 
5. 
By January 31, 2007, the revised PRSP document incorporating the petroleum 
economy is published. 
6. 
By June 30, 2007, the revised PRSP document is adopted by the Borrower.  
7. 
By September 30, 2007,  the public accounting framework and the public 
accounting plan are fully functional. 
8. 
By October 31, 2007, strengthen budget preparation and execution as reflected 
by HIPC AAP score of 8, by using modern and harmonized accounting 
framework and plan, carrying out yearly internal and external audits, pub1ished 
promptly, and submitted to the National Assembly. 
9. 
By October 31, 2007, NPA has staff with basic sector expertise to analyze and 
follow-up on petroleum contracts, elaborate policies for the sector, and supervise 
and regulate the industry. 
 
