Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB646 
Project Name 
STP Governance Capacity Building  and TA   
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Oil and gas (50%);Central government administration (50%) 
Project ID 
P083400 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF STP 
Implementing Agency 
 
government of STP 
São Tomé and Príncipe 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 21, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
September 7, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
São Tomé and Príncipe is a least developed country of 140,000.  It is a heavily indebted poor 
country (HIPC) with 53.8 percent of its population living under poverty and with low human 
capacity. It is highly vulnerable to external shocks and its dominant public sector is characterized 
by weak institutional capacity, an inadequate legal and regulatory framework, and limited 
financial resources, making the functioning of the economy and the management of public 
resources difficult.   
 
Since 1991, São Tomé and Príncipe has enjoyed a democratic political system.  Nonetheless, 
political life has been marked by instability and administrative deadlock, punctuated by 
differences between the office of the presidency and the national assembly or successive 
governments, internal party discords, governance issues, and two brief and bloodless coups in 
1995 and in 2003.  Since 2001, the country has had four governments as a results of internal 
discords.   The arrival of the petroleum era could heighten this political instability and affect 
economic management further.  
 
São Tomé and Príncipe is at the cusp of a major economic change.  Highly prospective blocks 
for offshore oil production in the Joint Development Zone (JDZ), established in recent agreement 
with Nigeria,  will be licensed by mid-2004.  If exploration succeeds, the oil production is 
expected to start in 2008.  
 
In the face of these challenges the government is committed to continue implementing its PRSP, 
adopted in December 2002.  A major pillar of the PRSP is to continue reform of the public 
institutions, to build institutional capacity and to promote better economic management, good 
governance and  increased transparency.  With the onset of the petroleum era, the government 
Page  2
recognizes the urgency of continuing and accelerating these reforms and has started to lay the 
base for the new institutional, legal and regulatory framework for the petroleum sector.
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project will help to modernize and to strengthen capacity in  economic (financial and 
budgetary) management and supervision; and to build up basic institutional and legal 
infrastructure in  the finance and the natural resources and environment ministries to cope with a 
more complex economic and social environment arising from the onset of petroleum era and the 
nascent market economy.  The project will help strengthen the corresponding human capacity of 
the civil service.   
 
 
The selection of the following key performance indicators mirrors the objectives of the project 
components: 
 
1.  The government budget preparation and execution is strengthened as reflected by 
improvements overtime in the HIPC AAP scores (currently 5)  by using modern harmonized 
nomenclatures and modern accounting framework and plan; yearly internal and external 
audits of the budget are undertaken, published promptly, and reviewed by the National 
Assembly.  
 
2.  A public accounting system is created and implemented, staff have basic expertise to produce 
and analyze necessary - internationally acceptable -  budgetary accounting information and 
tables.   Audits of accounts are produced annually, published promptly and reviewed by the 
National Assembly 
 
3.  A National Petroleum Agency is  created with staff having basic sector expertise to analyze 
and follow-up on petroleum contracts, elaborate policies for the sector, and supervise and 
regulate the industry.   
 
4.  The legal and institutional structure to implement and follow up is the PRSP is created and 
functional;  PRSP output and outcome indicators are regularly produced; PRSP document is 
revised to incorporate the petroleum economy and the revised PRSP is adopted by the 
government and promulgated by the President by June 2007.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Given the country and sectoral issues outlined above, the government has requested the new 
project to continue the strengthening of economic management and the implementation of 
reforms and to build institutional and human capacity.   
 
The proposed credit fits within the overall CAS goals of sustained growth, poverty alleviation 
and improved access to quality social services.  The CAS acknowledges the weak institutional 
and implementation capacity for economic and public resource management and the governance 
issues.  In supporting the government development goals, the CAS notes the possibilities for 
Page  3
future lending in the context of the PRSP and its action plan (for the period 2000-2005), and in 
building the capacity for petroleum policy and management.   
 
The Bank has two projects in São Tomé and Príncipe.  The Public Resources Management 
Project is to support the government in consolidating macroeconomic stability and enhancing 
competitiveness of the economy.  The corresponding PRMC-TA funds have helped the 
government elaborate some of its sectoral strategies, develop its PRSP document, implement its 
reform program and build some institutional capacity in critical areas such as financial and 
budgetary management, judiciary, petroleum and statistics.   Both credits will close end June 
2004.  
 
The government’s ability to coordinate donor intervention is weak, coupled with weak 
absorptive and management capacity.  Bank involvement could provide policy and programmatic 
leadership in this area, helping to coordinate the assistance from other partners yielding greater 
benefit from the various interventions by the foreign community.   
 
4. Description 
 
The project will consist of three components:   (i) petroleum sector component; (ii) public 
finance component and (iii) support for the PRSP implementation. 
 
I. 
Component I:  Petroleum sector  
 
The current PRMC-TA, closing in June 2004,  has supported some of the nascent petroleum 
sector activities in the past eighteen months in a number of ways:   (i)  international expertise 
were hired to assist the government in re-negotiating four contracts; (ii) international experts also 
assisted the government in the process of launching bids for the joint petroleum development 
zone with Nigeria (JDZ) in April 2003 and for analyzing the bids during October 2003-April 
2004; (iii) a kernel of the National Petroleum Agency (NPA) is already active, and has received 
technical assistance and funding and hired an international expatriate to help the Sao Tomeans 
develop the NPA fully in its sectoral supervisory and analytical capacities; (iv) technical 
assistance was provided to the government which is developing a petroleum revenue 
management law.  The law is expected to be submitted to the National Assembly in June 2004.   
The government has also passed a decree law officially creating the NPA in January 2004.  The 
decree law is to be promulgated by the President  shortly.  The government and the Presidency 
have also publicized their desire for transparency, by announcing that they are interested in 
signing up to the “Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative” (EITI).  The Bank is supporting 
this transparency effort.   
 
The new project will continue critical technical assistance and capacity building in this nascent 
sector to build an institutional and legal framework to formulate policies, supervise and regulate 
the petroleum sector.  This will entail:  (i) strengthening  of  National Petroleum Agency in 
material and human capacity terms (develop agency structure, hire appropriate staff, equip 
agency, adopt a training program and the like); (ii) strengthening of the legal framework, 
including sector related environmental issues; (iii) help the government in preparing and 
promoting the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the country (iv) setting up a functional 
Page  4
information system that is transparent; (v) undertaking studies and seminars that would help the 
government develop an economic model of the EEZ, study the opportunities for local content 
and study the opportunities for job creation.   
 
II. 
Component II:  Public finance  
 
The project will assist the government to improve public finance management (expenditure and 
revenue sides) in light of the future petroleum era.  
 
Many of the actions proposed for this 
component are recommendations from the analytical and technical assistance work undertaken 
since 2002 in the framework of the PRMC/PRMC-TA and the 2001-2003 HIPC-AAP analyses.  
The specific actions to improve budgetary process (harmonization of budget nomenclature; 
identification of expenditures for poverty reduction, development and adoption of a new 
accounting framework) were identified in the HIPC-AAP December 2003 report and the 
output/outcome indicators from HIPC-AAP to have been adopted to assess developments in the 
context of this component properly.  Also, the government and the World Bank team identified 
other actions to improve governance and transparence of public and private financial dealings.  
To start with, the Government wish assistance to develop a macro-economic model to help 
improve formulation of economic policies.  On the expenditure side, the actions to be taken are 
summarized under the following headings:  (i) strengthen petroleum revenue management 
supervision across national institutions (government, central bank, national assembly, tribunal 
des comptes); (ii) harmonize budget nomenclatures and identify expenditures for poverty 
reduction;  (iii) update the public procurement and treasury and public patrimony laws and 
procedures;   (iv) install a simple systems' information among specific government entities in the 
country was deemed necessary to facilitate PEM; (v)  improve budget oversight and public 
finance management training; (vi) develop and implement a accounting framework (cadre 
comptable) and accounting plan (plan comptable).  On the revenue side,  the Government wish 
to:  (i)   improve accounting and tax reporting practices of enterprises; and (ii)  increase MoPF 
capacity to collect tax revenue.  
 
III. 
Component III:  PRSP  
 
The new credit will help facilitate the implementation of the PRPS goals.  The credit will 
support this effort by helping (i)  facilitate the implementation of the PRSP  by supporting the 
directorate to become functional - capable to fully supervise and follow-up on the 
implementation of the PRSP goals, with regular provision of indicators; and (ii)  update PRSP 
document with analysis and vision on petroleum economy (revenues and expenditures) and 
adopting the updated PRSP. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5.0 
 Total 
5.5 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Page  5
6.1 Partnership arrangements (if applicable):  Not Applicable 
 
6.2 Institutional and implementation arrangements: 
 
The current implementation unit for PRMC-TA, closing in June 2004, has been designated as the 
implementation unit for the new project.   The unit will be reinforced so that it will be composed 
of:  (i) the coordinator of the project; (ii) a Financial Management Specialist (the current 
accountant to be trained to become the FMS);  (iii) a Procurement Specialist (part-time),  (iv)  an 
“implementation champion” – a Sao Tomean who will have economic and policy training and 
experience and familiarity with the policy and political environment of the country -  who will 
follow up the policy and implementation aspects of the project; (v) a secretary; (vi) a driver.  The 
new implementation unit will be housed in the Ministry of  Planning and Finance, under the 
tutelage of the Minister of Planning and Finance, and will have its own independent budget and 
employees.   A coordinator will be located in the National Petroleum Agency,  under the tutelage 
of the Ministry of Natural Resources, to initiate, pursue and implement the activities in the 
petroleum sector.   The role of the coordinator in the Petroleum Agency in procurement activities 
is that he/she can participate on defining needs (TORs, technical specifications), identify 
potential consultants for a short list, and participate on the evaluation process.  The leader of the 
procurement processes will be the PIU. 
 
Procurement:   
 
The current PIU of the PRMC-TA credit is composed of a Coordinator (with Procurement 
functions), an Accountant, a Secretary and a Driver.    As recommended during the Procurement 
Capacity Assessment of February 2004, a Procurement Specialist (part-time) will be hired on 
part-time basis (working jointly with the PASS project.   This option will be tested during the 
first six months of the project, and will be renewed if satisfactory.  The Procurement Specialist is 
currently being trained and will be ready to launch the first procurement activities under the new 
project.  The coordinator and other staff dealing with procurement issues (including the staff at 
the National Petroleum Agency participating in contracting activities) will be trained in 
procurement.  A one week training session is to take place in São Tomé 
 
in late June 2004.  
Further training will follow as needed. 
 
Financial Management:
 
A
Finance Unit, headed by the Financial Management Specialist, will be established within the 
PIU. The Finance Unit will have responsibility for the financial management and accounting of 
the credit. Specifically, it will be responsible for (i) preparing the activity plans, monthly Special 
Accounts, reconciliation statements, and quarterly Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), 
withdrawal schedules, quarterly financial monitoring reports, and annual financial statements; 
and (ii) ensuring that the project financial management arrangements are acceptable to 
Government and IDA. 
 
The GCB-TA project financial management benefits from the fact that this project is the follow-
up of an ongoing project that is being implemented by the same PIU.  However, the GCB-TA 
project financial management is affected by the following negative facts:   
Page  6
·
The current PIU accounting system is based on Excel Spreadsheets instead of being 
based on a financial management package format or in FMR format; 
·
The current PIU does not have Financial Procedures Manual;  
·
Financial management in Sao Tome and Principe is weak. There are pieces of the 
puzzle missing, such as a comprehensive and up-to-date set of Procedures Manuals for 
government budgeting and accounting that includes Project financial management 
procedures; uniform application throughout the government of systems for financial 
management and budgetary execution; and information systems sophisticated enough to 
produce timely and accurate information for reporting and control purposes.   
·
Weak internal and external audit system, and a weak judiciary, with very little 
accountability in the system. 
 
Also, the project will undergo annual audits by external, internationally known companies.   
These audits will be provided to the WB by June 30 of the year following the audited year.  The 
cost of the audit will be financed by the credit. The TOR for the audit will have to be agreed to 
by the WB. 
 
6.3 Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
 
The key performance indicators stated in page 3 will be monitored on a regular basis.  Specific 
output/results for components have been finalized with the government and are represented in 
Annex I.  The ‘implementation champion’ active within the PIU will be responsible for the 
monitoring, evaluation and reporting of these indicators.   The PRSP unit and National Statistical 
Bureau will be supported to produce and monitor some of the base indicators identified in the 
PRPS document, especially as they relate to poverty reduction.  Data on Health and education 
indicators could be obtain through cooperation with the PASS project. 
 
6.4 Sustainability 
 
The Major components of the credit are geared to help put in place a system that would allow the 
government to ensure sustainability of outputs and outcomes once the oil revenues flow.    
New and updated legislations in petroleum, public finance, procurement and judiciary will 
become part of the legal framework of the country. The increased  institutional and human 
capacity in the petroleum sector and the Ministry of Finance would allow the government to 
build on the achievements of the project by using part of the petroleum funds that will become 
available to the country in the medium to long run.   The project will also build some skills in 
project, procurement and financial management which can be useful beyond the life of the 
project.  Ultimately, the sustainability of the project will be determined by the degree of 
ownership of the institutional and human capacity building measures and the political will of the 
policy makers once the main petroleum revenues start to flow at the end of the decade.   
 
7.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
A
number of lessons were learned from the PRMC and  PRMC-TA.  The lessons learned from 
the PRMC suggest that  (i) national ownership of the reforms and related capacity building 
Page  7
process will increase the probability of the sustainability of the assistance; (ii) the project 
objectives should not be too ambitious and should be within the capacity of a properly trained  
implementing agency and the government; (iii) keep the project simple in design, 
implementation (components and indicators), and follow-up (supervision). 
 
The PRMC-TA was developed as a study fund related to the PRMC.   The government used the 
funds within a general sectoral TA framework  but without a specific capacity building program.  
The lessons learned from the PRMC-TA is twofold:  (i)  the success of the training or technical 
assistance will depend on its ability to address capacity building needs in a coherent yet flexible 
framework that is supported by an underlying policy agenda.     (ii)  The modality of providing 
training affects its  outcome and sustainability for the institutions targeted:  (a)   it is more 
productive and less costly to bring international TA to the country to train a group of civil 
servants than sending out one or two for training.  If several people are trained then departure or 
absence of one civil servant does not lead to loss of expertise and capacity acquired to undertake 
the specific activity.  (b)  There are trainings that are highly specialized and for which  a few 
civil servants need to travel abroad.  In this case the trained individuals should report back to 
their units/ ministries in a written report to be distributed to all relevant colleagues (or through a 
seminar) or accept to train other colleagues in the skill they have acquired.   
 
The GCB-TA focus has been placed on two sectors (petroleum and public finance) and on 
specific institutional capacity building.    Experience with the PRMC-TA pointed to the need for 
a
more analytical design and focus, coupled with a strengthened implementation unit and 
improved implementation arrangements.   The proposed credit has also focused on identifying 
TA and  capacity building needs within a reform or institution building program to increase its 
viability beyond the life of the credit.  The TA and capacity building design has attempted to 
program many activities in country, with allowance for external training.  The development of 
the credit content was driven by a close cooperation between the relevant ministries and the WB 
team to ensure that the actions included would be country owned.   
 
8.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[ 
x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[ 
x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] [ 
x] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
9. 
List of Factual Technical Documents:  N/A 
 
10. Contact point 
Contact: Dorsati H. Madani 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7925 
Fax:  
Email: Dmadani@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
