Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB470 
Project Name 
Governance Capacity Building -TA Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Oil and gas (50%); Central government administration (40%);Law and justice 
(10%).   
Project ID 
P083400 
Borrower(s) 
The Government of  São Tomé and Príncipe 
Implementing Agency 
PIU associated with Ministry of Finance, 239-222 372 
 
Government of  São Tomé and Príncipe 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [x] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [x ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 18, 2003 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 30, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2004 
 
Text updated taking into consideration the PCN review meeting of November 25, 2003.  
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
São Tomé and Príncipe is a least developed HIPC country with 53.8 percent of its population 
classified as poor and of  low human capacity. It is highly vulnerable to external shocks and its 
dominant public sector is characterized by weak institutional capacity, inadequate legal and 
regulatory framework, and limited financial resources, making the functioning of the economy 
and the management of public resources difficult.   
 
São Tomé and Príncipe is at the cusp of a major economic change.  Highly prospective blocks 
for offshore oil production in the Joint Development Zone (JDZ), established in recent agreement 
with Nigeria, will be licensed by mid-2004.  If exploration succeeds, the oil production is 
expected to start in 2008.   
 
In the face of these challenges the Government is committed to implementing its PRSP.  A major 
pillar of the PRSP is to continue reform of public institutions, build institutional capacity and 
promote better economic management, good governance and increased transparency.  As 
petroleum revenues are expected in the near future (first with the signature bonuses of the JDZ 
blocks in mid-2004 and from 2008 on with the expected oil revenues), the Government 
recognizes the urgency of continuing and accelerating these reforms and has started to lay the 
base for the new institutional, legal and regulatory framework for the petroleum sector using the 
current PRMC-TA credit, which will be closing end June 2004.  PRMC-TA funds have helped 
the Government elaborate some of its sectoral strategies, develop its PRSP document, implement 
its reform program and build some institutional capacity in critical areas such as financial and 
budgetary management, judiciary, and statistics.  The Government has requested the new 
Governance Capacity Building - TA project to continue the strengthening of economic 
management and the implementation of reforms and to build institutional and human capacity. 
 
Page  2
 
 
The proposed credit fits within the overall CAS goals of sustained growth, poverty alleviation 
and improved access to quality social services.  The CAS acknowledges the weak institutional 
and implementation capacity for economic and public resource management and the governance 
issues.  In supporting the Government development goals, the CAS notes the possibilities for 
future lending in the context of the PRSP and its action plan (for the period 2000-2005), and for 
building the capacity for petroleum policy and management.   
 
The Government’s ability to coordinate donor intervention is weak, coupled with limited absorptive and 
management capacity.  Furthermore, donors prefer specific sectors or investment projects, and as a result, the up-
front policy debate and strategy formulation necessary for defining the context and the rationale for these projects 
are largely lacking.  Bank involvement could provide policy and programmatic leadership in this area, helping to 
coordinate the assistance from other partners yielding greater benefit from the various interventions by the foreign 
community.  
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The two main development objectives of the proposed project are:  (i)  to strengthen economic (financial and 
budgetary ) management and build up institutional and legal infrastructure in key sectors (such as natural resources 
and environment, finance and judiciary) to cope with a more complex economic and social environment arising from 
the onset of petroleum era and the nascent market economy and (ii) to strengthen the corresponding human capacity 
of the civil service to improve the efficient management of public resources.   
 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed project is  a three year technical assistance credit (TAC).  It will support the Government technical 
assistance and capacity building needs.   Without the support of such a project, progress by the authorities in better 
managing public resources, and the expected progress in economic modernization would be constrained.   
 
The Government of São Tomé and Príncipe will use this proposed credit to secure continued technical assistance in 
two or three focused priorities, including:  
   
(i) 
public finance management (commitment control, cash control, accounting, and procurement)  as a 
precursor to a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF); 
 
(ii) 
petroleum sector:  to create a legal, regulatory and policy framework for the petroleum sector- 
including a sectoral strategy and a framework for a Fund for the Future- and develop institutional and 
human capacity for policy analysis and supervision. This institutional and capacity building effort will 
include a component addressing sectoral environmental issues, their supervision and regulation. This 
effort will be coordinated with the UNDP.    
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Safeguard policies do not apply as this is a TA credit.  Although the petroleum production activities will not take 
place before 2008 and then in deep offshore blocks, the proposed project includes a component to ensure that the 
Government is sensitive to possible environmental issues related to petroleum operations.   Recommendations will 
be included in the policy dialogue with the Government; TA will be provided for environmental assessment,  
regulation and supervision capacity building and monitored during the implementation period.  Within the 
Petroleum Agency structure to be created, it is suggested that the Technical Branch monitor sector specific 
protection of the bio-diversity and environmental resources of the country.  This will need to be further discussed 
during the pre-appraisal mission.  The Bank will coordinate with UNDP to ensure appropriate coverage of issues in 
this sector.   
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Page  3
 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0.00 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
4.00 
 
Total 4.00 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Dorsati H. Madani 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7925 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: Dmadani@worldbank.org
 
