Report No. PID9255
Project Name                     Nigeria-Health Systems Development Project - II@
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Primary Health; Including Reproductive Health;
Chi
Project ID                       NGPE70290
Borrower(s)                      NIGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address FEDERAL AND STATE MINISTRIES OF HEALTH
Federal Ministry of Health
Address: Federal Secretariat, 25,
Gindiri Street, Garki II, Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: Dr. Shehu Sule, Director,
Department of Planning, Research
and Statistics
Tel: +234-9-234-9417
Fax: +234-9-234-9158
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 14, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         June 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             August 21, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
1.1 Background   With a population of close to 127 million (2000), Nigeria
is the largest country in Africa. By 2025, its population is expected to
reach close to 200 million. It is widely recognized that the country has
a tremendous potential to become an economic giant in Africa because of
its impressive human capital, rich natural resources, and undeveloped
economic capacity. Nevertheless, decades of military regimes, financial
mismanagement, and the downside of the oil boom have triggered a crisis
situation in the social sectors, which has plummeted Nigeria among the 13
poorest countries in the world in terms of the UNDP Human Development
Index.1.2 Poverty is widespread and rising. Recent estimates from the
Federal Office of Statistics indicate that the proportion of households
living below the poverty line rose steeply nationwide from 27 percent in
1980 to close to 66 percent by 1996. While poverty has tended to be a
rural phenomenon, urban areas have also been affected, with incidence
rates climbing from 17 percent to about 58 percent since the early 1980s.
With a GNP per capita of only US$300 (1998) the average Nigerian is trying
to make ends meet on less than one dollar per day. MAIN SECTOR ISSUESPoor
Health Outcomesl.3 During the past two decades of military regimes health
outcomes have generally stagnated or deteriorated. This reflects, inter
alia, poor quality and inefficiencies in the provision of public sector
health services, lack of appropriate targeting strategies for reaching
under-served populations, and the poor linkages between economic growth
and poverty reduction (i.e. lack of pro poor policies). The resurgence in
malaria combined with the HIV/AIDS/TB co-epidemic now runs the risk of
further deterioration in health outcomes. This section summarizes the key
sector issues.(i) Since the early 80s Nigeria has experienced a much



slower rate of decline in infant mortality, in comparison to countries at
similar income levels. Patterns of mortality by mother's education and by
access to medical maternity care illustrate large differentials,
emphasizing the importance of expanding access to antenatal and delivery
care. For example, infants of women who did not have access to antenatal
or delivery care were twice as likely to die during their first year than
their counterparts who did benefit from these services. The mortality
patterns also highlight the importance of encouraging women to avoid high
risk fertility behavior (i.e. early childbearing, short birth intervals,
high parity), both to improve child and maternal health outcomes. For
example, children of women who exhibited all high risk behaviors were 3.6
times more likely to die during their first year of life. (ii) Nigeria
appears to have experienced a moderate decline in fertility, but continues
to lag considerably behind the high performing countries . The Total
Fertility Rate (TFR) dropped from 6.9 in 1982 to 5.3 in 1997, which
corresponds to a reduction in the annual population growth rate from 3.2
to 2.6 percent. Patterns of fertility suggest large urban rural and intra
regional differentials, with the Northeast and Northwest regions recording
the highest fertility rates. It is probable that most of the decline is
attributable to a shift towards a late pattern of childbearing rather than
to improvements in access to family planning services. This highlights
the importance of expanding access to family planning services, with a
particular emphasis on appropriate strategies for targeting males.(iii)
Nigeria suffers from large inequalities in coverage of basic services and
in health and nutrition outcomes between the poor and non-poor. Only 9
percent of the poorest women have access to a nurse or midwife at delivery
and over 87 percent continue to deliver at home, which implies that when
complications are encountered many of these women are not within easy
reach of medical care. Immunization coverage rates also highlight large
disparities between the poor and non-poor, with less thanl4 percent of the
children from the poorest families fully immunized, in comparison to about
58 percent in the richest households. Coverage gaps are reflected in
large disparities in health and nutrition outcomes, with the largest
differentials in under five mortality and nutritional status.(iv) As in
other developing countries communicable diseases in Nigeria affect
disproportionately the poor, setting in place a downward spiral of illness
and poverty. Worldwide, 80 percent of the rich-poor gap in both mortality
and DALY (Daily Adjusted Life Years) loss is due to the disproportionate
burden of communicable diseases on the poor. In Nigeria, there are
growing concerns with the rapidly rising HIV/AIDS and TB co-epidemic, the
resurgence in malaria, and continuing morbidity and mortality losses due
to childhood communicable diseases (e.g. measles, diarrhea, respiratory
infections). While the government has an essential role to play in the
provision of these public goods, it currently reaches only a fraction of
those in need of care.(v) Nigeria could be achieving better health
outcomes at the same income and health expenditure levels if resources
were allocated and spent in a more efficient manner. The MMR for countries
at similar economic levels is as follows: 58 in Tajikistan, 500 in
Madagascar, 550 in Uganda, and 650 in Kenya. By contrast, the MMR in
Nigeria is estimated at about 1100 per 100,000 live births, ranging from
339 in the South-West to 1716 in the North-East. The excessively high
maternal mortality levels are a reflection of the inadequate access to
obstetric care, poorly functioning referral system, cultural barriers to
health care, and general systemic problems of the health care delivery
system.Health Services: Provision, Organization and Financing(i) There is
-2 -



a general consensus that the quality of government health services has
declined dramatically during military rule. Deteriorated infrastructure
and equipment, lack of drugs, and low staff morale have led to a dramatic
reduction in the utilization of health services. After decades of
devastating neglect, Nigerian officials see enormous needs for upgrading
public sector health facilities, which cater primarily to the lower
socio-economic groups.    (ii) In contrast to the general deterioration in
the public sector Nigeria appears to continue benefiting from a vibrant
private sector. Private health services have grown rapidly during the
past two decades. There is a need to create an enabling environment for
private sector providers and to build effective public/private
partnerships. The proposed operation would finance analytic work to get a
better understanding of the private sector and to identify options for
collaboration. (iii) Nigeria spends considerably less of public resources
on health care than countries at similar socio-economic levels. Moreover,
there are large inefficiencies in the way public resources are allocated,
spent, and managed which contribute to the poor health outcomes. Nigeria
is estimated to spend less than US$5.0 per capita of public resources on
health care. Private expenditures are estimated to represent over 70
percent of total health expenditures in Nigeria, with household out of
pocket expenditures accounting for the lions' share. These expenditure
patterns raise three interrelated issues.The first set of issues deals
with the fiscal transfer mechanism. State and local governments are
highly dependent on transfers from the federal government, which tend to
fluctuate with oscillations in petroleum revenues. Second, there are
serious problems of internal efficiency with personnel costs crowding out
other essential inputs. At the state and local government level, salaries
absorb up to 90 percent of total expenditures with the bulk of non-salary
expenditures funded through internally-generated revenues at the health
facility level. A third set of related issues deal with shortcomings in
the management of resources. Recurrent budgets are prepared in a
incremental fashion over the previous year's allocations; accounting,
auditing and financial management practices are generally poorly
developed; and a proliferation of deductions at source has created
conditions for expenditure mismanagement. (iv) The organizational
structure of the Nigerian health care system suffers from poor delineation
of roles and responsibilities of the three tiers of the system This has
three key dimensions.First, the legislative framework suffers from lack of
specificity and ambiguities in the definition of roles and
responsibilities of the three tiers of government, which has resulted in
some local governments functioning as mere administrative extensions of
state governments. Even when roles are clearly assigned, there are
instances where some tiers of government take on responsibilities that are
clearly not in their mandate, which results in duplication of efforts and
inadequate coordination (e.g. federal level parastatals which provide some
of the same functions which are the responsibility of local
governments).Second, the fragmentation of roles and responsibilities
amongst the tiers of government has also resulted in problems of ownership
and accountability. Third, in addition to lack of clarity over roles and
responsibilities of different tiers of government there are also concerns
with the pace and scope of decentralization of responsibilities and
resources in light of variable capacity.GOVERNMENT STRATEGY Medium-Term
Health Plan and Health Sector Reform Programl.4 Under the leadership of
the FMOH, the government has articulated a Medium Term Plan of Action to
provide a framework for health sector investment. The goal is to raise
- 3 -



the health status of all Nigerians by improving the performance of the
health care delivery system at all levels. The government's Medium Term
Plan of Action addresses many of the issues enumerated above. The plan
aims to confirm the new civil administration's commitment to improving
health care for all Nigerians. The Obasanjo government initiated a
broadly based consultative process bringing together key stakeholders from
across Nigeria. The results of the Nigerian consultations are reflected
in the medium-term objectives cited below. While these objectives are
generally reasonable, the agenda set out for the 3-year plan will probably
require a ten-year time horizon in order to build up capacities in the
first phase, sequence investments according to capacity, and build on
lessons learned. The goal at this stage is to broaden and deepen this
consultation process, with a view to developing a shared vision of the
future direction for the health sector. To this end, an electronically
networked health sector analysis initiative would be developed as part of
this process (see project description section).1.5 The Medium Term
Objectives for 2000-2003 are as follows:To expand and strengthen primary
health care services throughout the country.To eradicate, eliminate and
control childhood and other vaccine preventable diseases through adequate
routine immunization activities.To integrate all disease control efforts
and health promotion activities into health care at primary care level.To
address the demographic problems through the provision of family and
reproductive health services including the necessary services to reduce
the incidence of STDs and HIV infection.To rapidly resuscitate and improve
the services of secondary health care to serve as an effective referral
for PHC.To improve investigative, diagnostic and treatment capability of
tertiary health facilities to serve as an effective apex referral system
to all health facilities in the country.To ensure the attainment of the
goals and objectives of the National Drug Policy (NDP), which focuses on
self-reliance in essential drugs, vaccines and biologicals through local
manufacture and an effective drug administration and control system.To
protect public from the harmful effects of fake drugs, unregistered
medicines and processed foodsTo ensure that the support given by donors,
NGOs and UN Agencies is provided within the framework of the national
health policy and plans.To broaden financing options, including the
establishment of a national health insurance scheme, in order to expand
and improve access to affordable and adequate health care to a majority of
Nigerians.To strengthen policy formulation, general management, financial
management, and planning capacity of the FMOH and parastatals.To build and
strengthen national capacity to generate evidence and information base for
health policy, plan, programmes and activities.
2. Objectives
2.1 The project's overriding goal is to address the serious deterioration
in the delivery of basic health care services following decades of
neglect. At the same time, a concerted effort would be made to build
institutional capacities, paving the way for a more sustained development
of the Nigerian health care system and for further IDA assistance. More
specifically, the project would: (i) support improvements in the delivery
of primary health care services with a particular focus on maternal and
child health and reproductive services; (ii) strengthen capacities for
system management at the state level and encourage an environment of broad
based consultation; and (iii) assist the federal government to build
capacity and to strengthen its policy formulation and normative functions
within the framework of the government's health sector reform agenda.
- 4 -



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
3.1 The value added of Bank support has four key aspects. First, the Bank
is in a unique position to share knowledge and experiences from the
implementation of similar operations in other countries. To this end, the
Bank would collaborate with other partners to foster a debate on new ways
of doing business in the health sector, with a particular focus on moving
towards programmatic support, promoting public/partnerships, and
broadening health financing options. Second, the Bank can also leverage
project results by working in close collaboration with other networks on
such issues as public sector management and fiscal decentralization, which
affect the effectiveness of health service delivery. Third, while the
overall level of financial resources would be relatively modest, Bank
financing would be important in relative terms. An analysis of a sample
of state proposals found that the projected increase in per capita
spending related to the project ranged from 20 to over 100 percent.
Fourth, the Bank has and will continue working closely with other
development partners to maximize the support provided to participating
states.
4. Description
4.1 The project would include two components.Part A: State Health Systems
Development (US$107.53 million)4.2 This component would provide support
for health systems development to participating states, based on overall
project implementation plans and annual work programs. As a possible
co-financed operation, the mechanisms of state selection would be agreed
upon with the government during the appraisal mission. At this stage,
roughly two-thirds of the states plus the FMOH would be financed by the
IDA-funded operation.    A series of benchmarks were established to gauge
readiness to participate in the IDA-funded operation. Participation would
be decided at appraisal.4.3 The goal of this project would be to promote a
gradual paradigm shift towards an outcome-oriented approach. In order to
improve accountability and enhance ownership, participation of
beneficiaries and stakeholders would be encouraged (e.g. engaging health
facility personnel and beneficiaries in key decisions; assessing client
satisfaction).4.4 Service Delivery. The first sub-component aims to
improve the quality and efficiency of primary health care services with a
particular focus on maternal and child health by: strengthening local
health facilities and selective secondary level referral centers.
Emphasis would be placed on strengthening immunization services, safe
motherhood interventions, and communicable disease control. To this end,
the project would provide financing for the following activities:Facility
Upgrading: Support would be provided for rehabilitation and equipment of
a select number of facilities, improving access to water, and provision of
logistical means (i.e. vehicles).    The project would provide technical
and financial support to put in place a system for greater autonomy in the
management of local health facilities. Funds would be provided on a pilot
basis to enable newly rehabilitated facilities to operate satisfactorily
over a given period of time, while mechanisms are put in place for
ensuring sustainability. Essential Drugs Supply: The project would expand
access to affordable essential drugs at the local level through, inter
alia, contracting of private sector providers, supporting state
authorities to put in place a cost efficient distribution system, and/or
providing seed stocks to health facilities. Technical Packages: The
project would support implementation of Integrated Management of Childhood
Illness (IMCI), Safe Motherhood, and Communicable Disease Control
- 5 -



technical packages (with emphasis on malaria and TB) to encourage expanded
introduction of these cost effective strategies at the primary health and
community levels. Human Resources Development This sub-component would
support the provision of staff training with a particular emphasis on
maternal and child health, reproductive health, obstetric care, and
communicable disease control. 4.5 Capacity Building. This sub-component
aims to improve capacity for health system management at the state level.
To this end, it will provide support to: (i) strengthen the health
management and information system in order to improve access to basic
information for decision making; (ii) improve budget management processes
through technical assistance and training at local institutions; (iii)
develop state health accounts; and (iv) initiate use of memoranda of
understanding. State officials would also receive financial and technical
support to organize annual performance reviews to discuss results, lessons
learned and share good practices with stakeholders and beneficiaries. The
project would provide financing for technical assistance, staff training
and workshops.Part B Federal Health Sector Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation (US$15.94 million)4.6 The second component would provide
assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health to build capacity and to
strengthen its normative functions (e.g. coordination, monitoring and
evaluation), within the framework of the government's health sector reform
agenda. Specifically, assistance would be provided to the FMOH to: (i)
coordinate and guide the design and implementation of the National Health
Management Information System (NHMIS), in order to improve access to basic
information for decision making; (ii) strengthen health policies and
systems development, with a particular focus on the health sector reform
program, including the national health insurance scheme; (iii) coordinate
the preparation of national health accounts in order to get a
comprehensive view of levels and sources of health spending; (iv) carry
out institutional and management audit studies and reviews, including
joint assessments of health systems performance; (v) organize annual
performance reviews, in order to provide feedback to the National Council
on Health on progress in designing reform measures and to generate a
consensus on the reform agenda; (vi) support project management and
coordination.4.7 The Federal Ministry of Health will also receive
financial and technical assistance to articulate, share and disseminate
its health sector reform agenda with key stakeholders, including
development partners. Within the context of the HSDP II operation an
electronically networked health sector analysis would be supported,
linking government and other development partners around the world. An
institutional host for the initiative would be identified during the
appraisal mission. The network would hold regular communications and
videoconferences between participants, to discuss government programs and
initiatives vis-a-vis donor activities in the sector. The network would
serve as the main conduit for discussions between government and donors on
the health sector reform agenda.
State Health Systems Development
Federal Health Sector Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
PPF Refinancing
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA 112.89
Total Project Cost 125.07
-6-



6. Implementation
6.1 Implementation period The project would be implemented over a period
of 5 years.Project management and coordination 6.2 State and LGA level
The state Health Commissioners (SHCs) would have ultimate responsibility
for project implementation and for ensuring that annual work plans are
consistent with state health plans. State governors would ensure that
health services and project facilities are adequately funded. State
ministries of health (SMOH) would be responsible for project management
through a project management unit (PMU).6.3 Each state would sign a
subsidiary agreement with the FMOF. This agreement would define the roles
and responsibilities of all parties in the implementation of the project.
A project implementation manual, to be adopted before credit
effectiveness, would define procurement and disbursement arrangements,
performance indicators and other administrative, financial and
organizational arrangements.6.4 It is expected that states would gradually
move from a traditional investment mode (i.e. financing of individuals
activities) to programmatic support (i.e. funding a slice of annual state
health plans). States would move to the programmatic mode of support
after having demonstrated compliance with the following criteria: (i)
annual work programs in the health sector are sound and consistent with
budgetary allocations; (ii) budgetary allocations for the health sector
are satisfactory; (iii) financial statements on budget execution are
submitted in a timely fashion; and (iv) amounts spent are in line with
initial allocations.    At the mid-term review, progress towards fulfilling
these criteria will be assessed and a decision on programmatic support
would be taken at that time.6.5 Project Management Units (PMUs) have
already been established in all states. The size of these units may vary
according to state conditions. PMUs would include, at a minimum, the
following staff: project manager, architect/engineer, quantity surveyor,
procurement specialist, accountant/budget officer, internal auditor,
training officer, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist. Staff of
the PMUs would typically be recruited on a competitive basis from the
private sector or be reassigned from within the public sector.     The PMUs
would prepare annual work programs and budgets in close consultation with
their respective local government authorities (LGAs) and with the
Directorate of Planning and Statistics in their respective state Ministry
of Health. The work program and related budget would be reviewed by the
State Executive Council, responsible for state budget approval and be
forwarded to IDA.6.6 LGAs would be responsible for delivering basic health
services in upgraded facilities supported under the project. The chief
medical officer in the LGA would be responsible for ensuring that each
facility is operated according to standard procedures and guidelines.
Each participating LGA would sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with
their respective state authorities before project activities are
initiated. The MOU would specify the obligations of the LGA, namely
preparation of annual work program for the delivery of health services,
provision of adequate financing for operating health facilities, and
submission of annual reports on project activities. The MOU would
indicate the support expected from the state in the delivery of health
services, including staff training, provision of essential drugs, and
facility maintenance. The MOU would also require the LGA to manage its
overall budget according to financial management and accounting
guidelines. The LGA chief financial officer would be responsible for
budget management.6.7 Federal level The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH)
would ensure overall coordination of the project and would be responsible
- 7 -



for implementing the second component. The Directorate General of
Planning in the Federal Ministry of Health would have the overall
responsibility for the project, operating through the National Project
Coordinating Unit (NPCU). The NPCU would provide assistance to states, as
needed, to implement their respective work programs. It would consolidate
annual work programs, reports and accounts. The NPCU would organize
bi-annual meetings of state health commissioners to review progress in
project implementation.6.8 Following on the successful experience under
the HSF I Project, a National Project Steering Committee (NPSC) will be
established to enhance management, provide overall policy direction, and
monitor progress for the HSDP II operation. The NPSC would consist of
representatives of the FMOH, FMOF, NPCU, Department of States and LGAs;
representatives of states; World Bank; and other development partners.
The National Project Coordinating Unit shall provide secretariat support
for the steering committee The specific functions of the NPSC
are:Undertake periodic review of project activities and contribute to
resolving implementation constraints.Provide strategic direction to
project management to facilitate its task.Prepare policy papers, draw
implications and make recommendations to government on matters pertaining
to the project.Examine annual action plans of all project teams.Review
Monitoring and Evaluation Reports.Examine problems emanating from credit
disbursement and government counterpart funds and flow of fund mechanisms
and propose remedial actions.Provide briefs for government for the annual
portfolio review meetings.Ensure the sustainability of the project.6.9
Project supervision Project supervision and technical backstopping would
be provided by roving supervision teams, which would include a combination
of experts in the following fields: public health, civil works,
procurement, financial management and information management. Each team
would be responsible for supervising roughly six states. One roving team
would be recruited by January 2002 in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The
number of teams to be recruited would gradually increase as more states
meet readiness criteria and as implementation activities increase. To
ensure the independence of the teams, members of the roving teams would be
recruited through a competitive bidding process according to criteria to
be agreed upon with the IDA. The teams would be financed by the IDA
credit under the second component for the entire duration of the project.
Each team would visit their respective states at least on a quarterly
basis and each project facility at least on a annual basis. It would
provide assistance, as needed, and make recommendations on addressing
outstanding problems. The roving teams would report to the National
Project Coordinating Unit and to the NPSC.
7. Sustainability
7.1 The sustainability of the project would be determined by three key
elements: (i) degree of ownership of key stakeholders, (ii) implementation
capacity, and (iii) timely availability of adequate financial resources,
including counterpart funds. While Nigeria does not have a long standing
tradition of participation and consultation a concerted effort has been
made to build into the project design interventions (e.g. involvement of
beneficiaries on local health committees, autonomy in management of health
facilities, consultation workshops, patient satisfaction surveys) which
would strengthen local ownership. The second element of sustainability
has been addressed by incorporating capacity building interventions into
the design. Project funds are targeted for strengthening institutional
capabilities at both the state and federal levels. Third, the past
- 8 -



problem with availability of counterpart funds would be addressed through
deductions at source. Finally, other features of the project would also
contribute to fostering sustainability. For example, the emphasis on
using memorandum of understanding between the state and LGA levels,
preparing expenditure analyses, and improving accountability and
transparency in budget management processes would ultimately enhance the
sustainability of health sector investments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.1 The key lessons derived from the implementation of previous health
operations in Nigeria and in similar contexts can be summarized as
follows:Keep the project design simple. In an environment of multiple
needs and limited capacities, such as Nigeria, there is a need to keep the
design simple. To this end, the proposed operation would include only two
components and a limited span of activities focusing on maternal and child
health.Move away from financing inputs towards focusing on results on the
ground. The financing of supply driven, traditional investments has
yielded limited results, particularly when beneficiaries have not been
adequately consulted. According to the government's completion report of
the Health Systems Fund Project, improvements in health infrastructure did
not lead to increased use of health services. These findings were broadly
consistent with results from a beneficiary assessment carried out as part
of project preparation, where the majority of beneficiaries interviewed
said that they continue to rely on traditional medicine rather than attend
the newly renovated facilities. Reasons cited included: lack of drugs and
equipment, few qualified staff, and perceptions of poor quality of care.
This highlights the importance of introducing mechanisms of
accountability, rewards for good performance and penalties for abuse. In
the context of this operation, the goal would be to improve accountability
through use of, inter alia, annual work programs based on results,
memoranda of understanding, regular expenditure reviews, and delegation of
non-salary expenditure budgets to local health facilities.Expand
involvement of beneficiaries and stakeholders and make them accountable.
The country's tradition of military rule and its three tiers of government
make it particularly challenging to ensure broad based consultation and
participation. As explained in the government's ICR, additional work is
required to build community level ownership of health facilities. To this
end, the project would support activities to encourage community
involvement and to assess client satisfaction, so that beneficiary
preferences are better reflected in the future.Establish effective
supervision strategies. Experience with the previous health project
demonstrated the importance of strong supervision teams, particularly in
light of the variable institutional capacities and limited knowledge with
Bank procedures and guidelines. The new operation builds and expands on
this experience by setting up roving teams with a good skills mix, field
experience, and strong managerial capabilities.Ensure availability of
counterpart funding to facilitate smooth implementation. To redress the
inadequate and irregular availability of counterpart funding during the
previous project, the current design envisions deductions at source. This
should ensure access to counterpart funds.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :    The project does not raise any significant
- 9-



environmental issues to the extent that it emphasizes rehabilitation of
facilities rather than construction of new ones. Adherence to WHO
guidelines on waste management would be emphasized in the operational
manual and staff training.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Miriam Schneidman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 22, 2001.
- 10 -



