Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21582 UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 101.8 MILLION
(US $127.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - II
May 1, 2002
Human Development Unit IH
Country Department 12
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 17, 2001)
Currency Unit = Naira
Naira 1 = US$0.00833
US$1 = 120 Naira
FISCAL YEAR
January I - -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
CBO             Community-Based Organization
CHW             Community Health Worker
CPRP            Community-Based Poverty Reduction Project
DALY            Daily Adjusted Life Years
DFID            Department for Intemational Development
DOTS            Directly Observed Treatment Short Course
EPI             Expanded Program of Immunization
FCT             Federal Capital Territory
FGN             Federal Govemment of Nigeria
FMOF            Federal Ministry of Finance
FMOH            Federal Ministry of Health
FMS             Financial Management System
FP              Family Planning
GNP             Gross National Product
HIV/AIDS        Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
HMB             Health Management Board
lHMIS           Health Management Information System
HNP             Health, Nutrition and Population
HSDP-11         Health Systems Development Project 11
HSF             Health Systems Fund
HSR             Health Sector Reform
LAD             Intemal Audit Department
[EC             Information, Education and Communications
IMCI            Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
ISA             Intemational Standards on Auditing
LGA             Local Govemment Authority
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
MMR             Matemal Mortality Rate
MOU             Memorandum of Understanding
MTPA            Medium Term Plan of Action
NHMIS           National Health Management Information System
NPC             National Planning Commission
NPCU            National Project Coordinating Unit
NPSC            National Project Steering Committee
PAS             Project Accounting Section
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PHC             Primary Health Care
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PMU             Project Management Unit
RH              Reproductive Health
SHC             Secondary Health Care
SMOH            State Ministry of Health
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
STD             Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TB              Tuberculosis
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
SWOP            Sector-Wide Operation
UNCITRAL        UN Commission on International Trade Law
WDR             World Development Report
Vice President:     Cillisto E. Madavo
Country Director.      Mark D.Tomlinson
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader.       Franrois N*caillet



NIGERIA
HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                     11
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       18
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                         19
3. Technical                                                                         19
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                     21
6. Social                                                                            21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                22



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    23
2. Critical risks                                                                    23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    24
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           24
2. Other                                                                              24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          34
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            69
Annex I 1: Health Sector Situation                                                       71
Annex 12: Supervision Arrangements                                                       78
MAP(S)
IBRD 31230



NIGERIA
Health Systems Development Project - II
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: May1, 2002                                 Team Leader: Francois Decaillet
Country Manager/Director: Mark Tomlinson         Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P070290                              Sector(s): HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ Loan      p(] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      [1 Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 127
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     26.21          0.00         26.21
IDA                                                          93.76         33.25        127.01
Total:                                                      119.97         33.25        153.22
Borrower: NIGERIA
Responsible agency: FEDERAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND PARTICIPATING STATES
Address: Federal Ministry of Health, Department of Health Planning & Research, Room 4A-316, Federal Secretariat
Building Complex. Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: Dr. Shehu Sule, Director Health Planning & Research
Tel: +234-9-523-5463           Fax: +234-9-523-8367           Email: hsfabuja@hotmail.com
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
0 FYf    - 2002       2003   I   2004      2005      2006      2007
Annual      6.65     21.01     31.15      32.55     25.70       9.95
Cumulative     6.65     27.66      58.81     91.36     117.06    127.01
Project implementation period: 2002-2007
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  07/01/2007
OCS PAD F- RN Mt, 2=



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overriding goal of this project is to assist the Nigerian Health authorities in their
efforts to redress the serious deterioration in the delivery of basic health care services following
decades of neglect and build institutional capacities, paving the way for a more sustained
development of the Nigerian health care system. More specifically, the project would: (i)
strengthen capacities for system management at the state level and encourage an environment of
broad based consultation; (ii) support improvements in the delivery of primary health care services
with a particular focus on maternal and child health and reproductive health services; and (iii)
assist the Federal Government to strengthen its policy formulation and further develop a system to
monitor the health sector performance.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Government has begun developing a broad vision of the Nigerian health system and
set long-term goals in terms of reductions in infant and child mortality and maternal mortality.
During the short life span of this project, the focus would be on a few indicators which are good
proxies for outcomes. Each participating state and the Federal level would select and monitor its
own set of indicators according to the interventions to be carried out. This would include, but not
be limited to, the following key performance indicators:
Outcome Indicators
- Improved situation in the five areas of reform: provision of the basic package of services;
legal and institutionalframework; role of the private sector; financial andfiscal management;
and human resources
-Proportion of states having developed state health accounts
-Number of states with certif ed/audited financial statements
- Increased utilization ofprimary health care facilities
- Increased proportion of children under I year and under 2 years fully immunized
- Increased proportion of births attended by skilled health personnel (doctor, nurse, midwife)
- Decrease in reported Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR)
- Number of states with approved 3-year rolling and annual workplans
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA-R-2001-0081 (IFC-R-2001-01000)  Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/14/2001
In the long term, the proposed project would contribute to the overarching goal of
poverty reduction through higher productivity levels and improvements in health status. In the
medium-term, the operation would contribute to the three main goals of the Interim Country
Strategy -- improving governance, promoting community based development, and stimulating
private sector development. The operation would assist Nigerian authorities to put in place the
conditions for improved governance in the management of public fimds in the health sector
through development of expenditure programs, mechanisms of accountability, and performance
standards. The main focus of the operation is to assist states in rebuilding minimum capacity in
the delivery of public services catering primarily to the poor. During the project implementation,
the potential for greater private sector involvement will be further explored.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
With a population of close to 127 million (2000), Nigeria is the largest country in Africa.
By 2025, its population is expected to reach close to 200 million. It is widely recognized that the
country has a tremendous potential to become an economic giant in Africa because of its
impressive human capital, rich natural resources, and undeveloped economic capacity.
Nevertheless, decades of military regimes, financial mismanagement, and the downside of the oil
boom have triggered a crisis situation in the social sectors, which has plummeted Nigeria to
among the 13 poorest countries in the world in terms of the UNDP Human Development Index.
Poverty is widespread and rising. Recent estimates from the Federal Office of Statistics
indicate that the proportion of households living below the poverty line rose steeply nationwide
from 27 percent in 1980 to close to 66 percent by 1996. While poverty has tended to be a rural
phenomenon, urban areas have also been affected, with incidence rates climbing from 17 percent
to about 58 percent since the early 1980s. With a GNP per capita of only US$300 (1998), the
average Nigerian is trying to make ends meet on less than one dollar per day.
MAIN SECTOR ISSUES
Poor Health Outcomes
During the past two decades of military regimes, health outcomes have generally stagnated
or deteriorated. This reflects, inter alia, poor quality and inefficiencies in the provision of public
sector health services, lack of appropriate targeting strategies for reaching under-served
populations, and the poor linkages between economic growth and poverty reduction (i.e. lack of
pro-poor policies). The resurgence in malaria combined with the HIV/AIDS/TB co-epidemic
now runs the risk of further deterioration in health outcomes. This section summarizes the key
sector issues, which are discussed in greater detail in Annex 11.
- 3 -



(i) Since the early 80s Nigeria has experienced a much slower rate of decline in infant
mortality, in comparison to countries at similar income levels. Patterns of mortality by
mother's education and by access to medical maternity care illustrate large differentials,
emphasizing the importance of expanding access to antenatal and delivery care. For example,
infants of women who did not have access to antenatal or delivery care were twice as likely to die
during their first year than their counterparts who did benefit from these services. The mortality
patterns also highlight the importance of encouraging women to avoid high risk fertility behavior
(i.e. early childbearing, short birth intervals, high parity), both to improve child and maternal
health outcomes. For example, children of women who exhibited high-risk behaviors were 3.6
times more likely to die during their first year of life.
(ii) Nigeria appears to have experienced a moderate decline in fertility, but continues
to lag considerably behind the high performing countries. The Total Fertility Rate (TFR)
dropped from 6.9 in 1982 to 5.3 in 1997, which corresponds to a reduction in the annual
population growth rate from 3.2 to 2.6 percent. Pattems of fertility suggest large urban, rural and
intra regional differentials, with the Northeast and Northwest regions recording the highest
fertility rates. It is probable that most of the decline is attributable to a shift towards a late pattern
of childbearing rather than to improvements in access to family planning services. This highlights
the importance of expanding access to family planning services, with a particular emphasis on
appropriate strategies for targeting males.
(iii) Nigeria suffers from large inequalities in coverage of basic services and in health and
nutrition outcomes between the poor and non-poor. Only 9 percent of the poorest women have
access to a nurse or midwife at delivery and over 87 percent continue to deliver at home, which
implies that when complications are encountered, many of these women are not within easy reach
of medical care. Immunization coverage rates also highlight large disparities between the poor
and non-poor, with less than 14 percent of the children from the poorest families fully inmmunized,
in comparison to about 58 percent in the richest households. Coverage gaps are reflected in large
disparities in health and nutrition outcomes, with the largest differentials in under five mortality
and nutritional status as described in Annex 11.
(iv) As in other developing countries, communicable diseases in Nigeria affect
disproportionately the poor, setting in place a downward spiral of illness and poverty.
Worldwide, 80 percent of the rich-poor gap in both mortality and DALY (Daily Adjusted Life
Years) loss is due to the disproportionate burden of communicable diseases on the poor. In
Nigeria, there are growing concerns with the rapidly rising HIV/AIDS and TB co-epidemic, the
resurgence in malaria, and continuing morbidity and mortality losses due to childhood
communicable diseases (e.g. measles, diarrhea, respiratory infections). While the government has
an essential role to play in the provision of these public goods, it currently reaches only a fraction
of those in need of care.
(v) Nigeria could be achieving better health outcomes at the same income and health
expenditure levels if resources were allocated and spent in a more efficient manner. The
Maternal Mortality Rate (MMvIR) for countries at similar economic levels is as follows: 58 in
Tajikistan, 500 in Madagascar, 550 in Uganda, and 650 in Kenya. By contrast, the MMR in
-4 -



Nigeria is estimated at about 1100 per 100,000 live births, ranging from 339 in the South-West to
1716 in the North-East. The excessively high maternal mortality levels are a reflection of the
inadequate access to obstetric care, poorly functioning referral system, cultural barriers to health
care, and general systemic problems of the health care delivery system.
Health Services: Provision, Organization and Financing
(i) There is a general consensus that the quality of government health services has
declined dramatically during military rule. Deteriorated infrastructure and equipment, lack of
drugs, and low health staff morale have led to a dramatic reduction in the utilization of health
services. After decades of devastating neglect, Nigerian officials see enormous needs for
upgrading public sector health facilities, which cater primarily to the lower socio-economic
groups.
(ii) In contrast to the general deterioration in the public sector, Nigeria appears to
continue to benefit from a vibrant private sector. Private health services have grown rapidly
during the past two decades. There is a need to create an enabling environment for private sector
providers and to build effective public/private partnerships. The proposed operation would
finance analytic work to get a better understanding of the private sector and to identify options for
collaboration.
(iii) Nigeria spends considerably less public resources on health care than countries at
similar socio-economic levels. Moreover, there are large inefficiencies in the way public
resources are allocated, spent, and managed which contribute to the poor health outcomes.
Nigeria is estimated to spend less than US$5.0 per capita of public resources on health care.
Private expenditures are estimated to represent over 70 percent of total health expenditures in
Nigeria, with household out of pocket expenditures accounting for the lions' share. These
expenditure patterns raise three interrelated issues.
* The first set of issues deals with the fiscal transfer mechanism. State and local governments
are highly dependent on transfers from the Federal Government, which tend to fluctuate with
oscillations in petroleum revenues.
* Second, there are serious problems of internal efficiency with personnel costs crowding out
other essential inputs. At the state and local government level, salaries absorb up to 90
percent of total expenditures with the bulk of non-salary expenditures funded through
internally-generated revenues at the health facility level.
* A third set of related issues deals with shortcomings in the management of resources.
Recurrent budgets are prepared in an incremental fashion over the previous year's allocations;
accounting, auditing and financial management practices are generally poorly developed; and a
proliferation of deductions at the source has created conditions for expenditure
mismanagement.
-5 -



(iv) The organizational structure of the Nigerian health care system suffers from poor
delineation of roles and responsibilities of the three tiers of the system.
This has three key dimensions:
*   First, the legislative framework suffers from lack of specif city and ambiguities in the
definition of roles and responsibilities of the three tiers of government, which has resulted in
some local governments functioning as mere administrative extensions of state governments.
Even when roles are clearly assigned, there are instances where some tiers of government take
on responsibilities that are clearly not in their mandate, which results in duplication of efforts
and inadequate coordination (e.g. federal level parastatals which provide some of the same
functions which are the responsibility of local governments).
*   Second, the fragmentation of roles and responsibilities amongst the tiers of government has
also resulted in problems of ownership and accountability.
*   Third, in addition to lack of clarity over roles and responsibilities of different tiers of
government there are also concerns with the pace and scope of decentralization of
responsibilities and resources in light of variable capacity.
- 6 -



GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
Medium-Term Health Plan and Health Sector Reform Program
Under the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), the government has
articulated a Medium Term Plan of Action to provide a framework for health sector investment.
The goal is to raise the health status of all Nigerians by improving the performance of the health
care delivery system at all levels. The government's Medium Term Plan of Action addresses
many of the issues enumerated above. The plan aims to confirm the new civil administration's
commitment to improving health care for all Nigerians. The Obasanjo government initiated a
broadly based consultative process bringing together key stakeholders from across Nigeria. The
results of the Nigerian consultations are reflected in the medium-term objectives cited below.
,While these objectives are generally reasonable, the agenda set out for the 3-year plan will
-probably require a ten-year time horizon in order to build up capacities in the first phase, sequence
investments according to capacity, and build on lessons learned. The goal at this stage is to
broaden and deepen this consultation process, with a view to developing a shared vision of the
future direction for the health sector.
The Medium Term Objectives for 2001-2004 are as follows:
Primary Health Care:
*   To expand and strengthen primary health care services throughout the country.
Disease Control:
*   To eradicate, eliminate and control childhood and other vaccine preventable diseases
through adequate routine immunization activities.
*   To integrate all disease control efforts and health promotion activities into health care
at primary care level, and to establish a National Center for Disease Control,
Prevention and Eradication.
Sexual and Reproductive health including HIV/AIDS:
* To address the demographic problems through the provision of family and
reproductive health services including the necessary services to reduce the incidence of
STDs and HIV infection.
Secondary and tertiary care:
*   To rapidly resuscitate and improve the services of secondary health care to serve as an
effective referral for Primary Health Care (PHC).
*   To improve investigative, diagnostic and treatment capability of tertiary health
facilities to serve as an effective apex referral system to all health facilities in the
country.
Drug production and management:
* To ensure the attainment of the goals and objectives of the National Drug Policy
(NDP), which focuses on self-reliance in essential drugs, vaccines and biologicals
- 7 -



through local manufacture and an effective drug administration and control system.
* To protect public from the harmful effects of fake drugs, unregistered medicines and
processed foods.
Coordination of development with partners:
* To ensure that the support given by donors, NGOs and UN Agencies is provided
within the framework of the national health policy and plans.
Oreanization and management:
*   To broaden financing options, including the establishment of a national health
insurance scheme, in order to expand and improve access to affordable and adequate
health care to a majority of Nigerians.
*   To strengthen policy formulation, general management, financial management, and
planning capacity of the FMOH and parastatals.
*   To build and strengthen national capacity to generate evidence and an information
base for health policy, plan, programs and activities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A number of the key issues affecting service delivery are beyond the scope of the health
sector and will require progress in public sector management, fiscal decentralization, and civil
service reform. Within the health care sector, selectivity will be essential, particularly in light of
the relatively modest resource flows.
This operation can only begin to address the government's hefty agenda and to lay the
groundwork for further support. Hence, the main focus would be on restoring a minimal level of
quality in the provision of public sector health services targeted to the poor. At the same time,
the government, together with civil society, will need to continue formulating the long-term vision
and to identify new ways of doing business. This operation would also provide support to build
consensus and develop the reform agenda.
In designing the operation, the team considered three strategic options:
* Expand or consolidate public sector capacity? The majority of state proposals initially
included an ambitious program of primary health care facility and secondary hospital
construction. The Bank team argued that in the current environment where facilities suffer
from shortages of personnel and operate at sub-optimal levels it would not be technically
sound to embark on construction of new facilities, particularly at the secondary level.
Agreement was thus reached that the project would not include any new construction with the
exception of local health facilities in seriously under-served areas and schools of nursing,
midwifery and health technology, if fully justified.
* Support private sector activities or work through the public sector? Nigerian counterparts
felt that it is probably premature to consider channeling IDA funds through the private sector,
except on an experimental basis. The priority for the government at this stage is to restore
operational capacity in the public sector and to improve its knowledge of service delivery in
the private sector. Hence, it was agreed that the main focus of the operation would be to
-8 -



assist the public sector to enhance quality, efficiency, and equity of public investment while
building consensus and capacity to channel funds through non-governmental and community
groups in the future.
*  Focus on state or local government level? The team considered what would be the optimal
entry point for strengthening basic health services. While it recognized that local government
authorities have the ultimate responsibility for primary health care, capacities at this level
remain modest, and the number of local authorities (774) make it potentially unmanageable.
Hence, it was decided that a sequential approach would be adopted rather than aim to build
capacities at both levels simultaneously. States would provide technical support to
participating Local Government Authorities (LGAs) to carry out their work programs. In
addition, states should be encouraged to collaborate with the LGAs to pilot a scheme whereby
health facilities receive a budgetary transfer for non-salary operating expenses in order to
encourage greater accountability and autonomy.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would include three components.
Component 1. Strengthening Capacity for System Management (All States).
The project would provide support to all states to strengthen the capacity of the State
Ministry of Health in the areas of planning, financial management, monitoring and evaluation.
The project would also provide limited support to improve the technical skills of trainers and key
health care providers. All states were offered to sign up for this support, selecting from a limited
menu of activities that would be fmanced, with streamlined procurement procedures. All but one
state (Kano) have decided to participate in this component. The total amount to be provided to
each individual state under this component would be US $ 1.5 million. The sub-components under
which the activities would fall are: (i) support to managerial processes and skills; (ii) support for
technical skill development; (iii) support for the Health Management Information System (HMIS);
(iv) access to information and communication technology; and (v) research and studies.
Component 2: Strengthening the delivery of Priority Health Services ( Qualifying States).
Through this component, the project would support activities aimed at improving the
delivery of primary health care services. Emphasis would be placed on strengthening
immunization services as well as safe motherhood interventions and communicable disease
control. Particular attention would be paid to the control of tuberculosis. The project would
finance activities for each state, based on the State's perceived priorities and the objectives and
goals that it wants to achieve. Activities would be taken from the Project Implementation Plans
prepared by the States, with priority given to those improvements that can be perceived by the
population and that will result in measurable improvements, particularly for the poor. Each state
will have its own sub-components, depending on their priorities and needs. However, Project
-9-



Implementation Plans are likely to include at least 3 of the following sub-components: i)
Strengthening Primary Health Care Services to improve access and logistics, ii) Improving the
delivery of key primary health care services, disease control (both endemic and epidemic
diseases), iii) Improving the availability of essential and generic drugs in health facilities; and iv)
Improving the quality of training in Nursing, Midwifery and Health Technology Schools.
To participate in this component, states were selected based on a number of criteria:
financial and procurement capacity; geo-political representation; current level of indebtedness and
population level. A total of 18 states were selected to participate, based on selection criteria as
agreed with the Federal Ministry of Health and with the states. Based on the financial and
procurement capacity assessments made, a total of 22 states qualified. A further selection was
made to bring the number to 18, by including level of indebtedness (as identified from the number
and amount of current Bank projects in the state) and population. The following states were
included in this component: Adamawa, Taraba, Borno, Kebbi, Sokoto (conditional), Zamfara
(conditional), Kogi, Kwara, Federal Capital Territory, Enugu, Ebonyi, Anambra (conditional),
Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Delta, Rivers, and Bayelsa. The three conditional states would need to ensure
that they satisfy further requirements prior to their drawing down of the credit. Each state would
receive up to US $3.5 million (in addition to the US $1.5 million received from the first
component).
The African Development Bank is willing to contribute to this project by supporting
Component 2 for an additional 12 states: Bauchi, Yobe, Niger, Benue, Kaduna, Katsina, Imo,
Abia, Lagos, Oyo, Akwa-Ibom and Edo. The same set of procedures, conditions, and institutional
arrangements used in the World Bank-supported states would apply for these states. (The same
conditional requirements for the project start-up would also apply to conditional states in this
group).
Component 3: Capacity Strengthening for Federal Ministry of Health.
The project would provide support to the Federal Ministry of Health to: (i) build capacity
and strengthen key public health functions and processes and, (ii) coordinate, monitor and
evaluate the implementation of the project. Activities to be financed under the project falling
under 4 sub-components: (a) Support to the formulation of health policy and strategies and
health reform process, (b) Support to the strengthening of the Health Management Information
System and Health Sector performance assessment, (c) Project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation, and (d) research and audit studies.
- 10-



Indicative           Bank-     % of
Component                 Sector        Costs    % of     financing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total    (US$M)   financing
Strengthening Capacity for System  Primary Health,  65.41     42.7    53.78      42.3
Management                     Including
Reproductive Health
Strengthening the Delivery of Priority  Primary Health,  76.59  50.0  63.70      50.2
Health Services                Including
Reproductive Health
Capacity Strengthening for Federal  Reforn and      9.62       6.3     7.92       6.2
Ministry of Health             Financing
PPF Refinancing                                     1.60       1.0      1.60      1.3
Total Project Costs               153.22     100.0    127.00    100.0
Total Financing Required                 153.22    100.0    127.00    100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The government has prepared a development policy letter, which summarizes the main
areas of reform. As indicated in this document, particular attention is to be devoted to the
following: (a) defining and costing a basic package of health services; (b) drafting legislation to
clarify the mandates of all actors in the health care delivery system and spelling out the
relationships among the three tiers in the public sector; (c) documenting the role of the private
sector in the provision of health services and assessing the potential for public/private
partnerships; (d) increasing budgetary allocations for health, improving budget preparation and
management processes, and exploring the possibility of expanding health financing options, with a
focus on determining the feasibility and cost of a national health insurance scheme; and (e)
exploring possibilities for increased autonomy in the management of human resources at lower
levels of government.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would benefit primarily poor Nigerians, who are the main users of public
health services. The nationwide focus implies that the project will have a potentially important
impact in terms of reaching a large number of beneficiaries. Enhancements in the availability and
quality of basic health services would be in large part targeted to children and women. State
governments would also benefit from capacity building interventions. Finally, activities aimed at
building the health sector reform agenda would prepare the groundwork for a more sustained
development of the health sector.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The project would be implemented over a period of 5 years.
- 11 -



Project management and coordination
State and LGA level. The state Health Commissioners (SHCs) would have ultimate
responsibility for project implementation and for ensuring that annual work plans are consistent
with state health plans. State governors would ensure that health services and project facilities are
adequately funded. In particular, they would ensure that SMOH budgetary allocations are
increased annually to cover the additional recurrent costs created by the project's investments.
State ministries of health (SMOH) would be responsible for project management through a
project management unit (PMU).
Each state would sign a subsidiary agreement with the FMOF, as per Schedule 5 of the
Development Credit Agreement. This agreement would define the roles and responsibilities of all
parties in the implementation of the project. A project implementation manual, to be adopted
before credit effectiveness, would define procurement and disbursement arrangements,
performance indicators and other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements.
Project Management Units (PMUs) have already been established in all states. The size of
these units may vary according to state conditions. However, PMUs would include, at a
minimum, the following staff: a project manager, a procurement specialist, an accountant/budget
officer and an internal auditor. Staff of the PMUs will be reassigned from the public sector or
recruited on a competitive basis from the private sector. The PMUs would prepare annual work
programs and budgets in close consultation with their respective local government authorities
(LGAs) and with the Directorate of Planning and Statistics in their respective state Ministry of
Health. The work program and related budget would be reviewed by the State Executive
Council, responsible for state budget approval and be forwarded to IDA.
It is planned for the financial management, including the management of the project
accounts, for all World Bank projects in a state, to be handled by one office in the state, most
likely with the State Ministry of Finance. Until this arrangement is established, an interim
arrangement in the SMOH will be in place for this project.
LGAs would be responsible for delivering basic health services in upgraded facilities
supported under the project. When appropriate, participating LGA would sign a memorandum of
understanding (MOU) with their respective State authorities before project activities are initiated.
The MOU would specify the respective obligations of the two parties.
Federal level. The Director of Health Planning and Research in the Federal Ministry of
Health would have the overall responsibility for the project, operating through the National
Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU). The NPCU would monitor the implementation of the third
component and provide assistance to states, as needed, to implement their respective work
programs. It would consolidate annual work programs, reports and accounts.
Following on the experience under the HSF I Project, a National Project Steering
Committee (NPSC) will be established to enhance management, provide overall policy direction,
- 12 -



and monitor progress for the HSDP II operation. The NPSC would consist of representatives of
the FMOH, FMOF, NPC, NPCU, Department of States and Local Government Affairs at the
Presidency and representatives of states; and other development partners. The National Project
Coordinating Unit will provide secretariat support for the steering committee. The specific
functions of the NPSC are to:
*   Examine annual action plans of all project teams,
*   Undertake periodic reviews of all project activities and review all monitoring and
evaluation reports, and
*   Review problems emanating from credit disbursement and government counterpart
funds and flow of funds mechanisms
and, on this basis, to:
*   Provide strategic direction to project management,
* Contribute to resolving implementation constraints and propose remedial actions, and
* Provide briefs for government for the annual portfolio review meetings and make
recommendations to Government on matters pertaining to the project.
Project supervision (see annex 12). Project supervision would be especially demanding
and time-consuming. In addition to the necessary controls of implementation, procurement and
financial management, there would be a need to provide the project teams with implementation
support and to take the opportunity of supervision to further develop the dialogue with them on
strategies for health development. To monitor implementation and provide assistance to the
States, it is proposed to hold joint supervision missions, including the World Bank team and
representatives of the NPCU, the FMOF and the AfDB and to include field visits to each
geographic zone. Each supervision mission to a zone would include 3 States, with all 6 zones and
all participating states to be covered at least once a year. To ensure adequate quality in
supervision and implementation support provided, a consultant would be contracted under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, to carry out the monitoring and supervision for this project.
The consultant would be responsible for monitoring and maintaining the performance indicators
for the project, visit states regularly to identify problems and issues, bring these issues to the
attention of the NPCU, the Bank, and the NPSC and prepare (and participate in) the joint
supervision missions.
Financial Management
Project Accounting Sections (PASs) will be established at the NPCU (PAS/NPCU) and in
each PMU (PAS/PMU). They will each be headed by a professionally qualified Project
Accountant who will be supported by appropriately qualified staff. The PASs will be responsible
for the management of the credit at the Federal and State levels. Specifically, the PASs will,
amongst other things, be responsible for maintaining appropriate books of accounts and records;
and preparing budgets, monthly reports, quarterly financial monitoring reports, annual financial
Statements and progress reports. The PASs will submit to IDA quarterly financial monitoring
reports. Additionally, the PAS/NPCU will be responsible for consolidating the quarterly financial
monitoring reports and annual financial Statements for the entire project, and forwarding the
reports and statements to IDA and NPSC.
- 13-



Project activities, records and accounts will be reviewed by the internal auditor of each
PMU who will report to the project manager at the PMU and the State Health Commissioner.
Additionally, the activities, records and accounts will be reviewed periodically by the Internal
Audit Departments (LADs) of the FMOH and SMOH.
By Credit Effectiveness, the project will not be ready for report-based disbursements.
Thus, at the initial stage, transaction-based disbursement procedures (i.e. direct payment,
reimbursement, and special commitments), as described in the World Bank Disbursement
Handbook, will be followed. However, when project implementation begins and the borrower
requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a review will be undertaken by the Task Team
to determine if the project is eligible.
With respect to banking arrangements and funds flow, IDA will disburse the credit
through nineteen special accounts (SA), eighteen for the States and one for FMOH. The
NPCU/FMOH will maintain (a) a SA in US Dollars to which the initial deposit and replenishments
from IDA will be lodged; (b) a Current Account I in Naira to which Counterpart Funds will be
deposited; and (c) a Current Account II in Naira to which draw-downs from the Special Account
will be credited once or twice per month in respect of incurred eligible expenditures. Each of the
eighteen States' SAs will be operated jointly by a pair of States. The SA for a pair of States will
reside in the State named in the DCA. Each pair of States will maintain a joint SA in US Dollars
to which the initial deposit and replenishments from IDA will be lodged. Additionally, each State
will maintain (a) a Current Account I in Naira to which Counterpart Funds will be deposited; and
(b) a Current Account II in Naira to which draw-downs from the Special Account will be credited
once or twice per month in respect of incurred eligible expenditures.
NPCU will prepare and submit to IDA Audited Project Financial Statements
(Consolidated) within six months after year end. By Credit Effectiveness, relevantly qualified
external auditors will be appointed by the FMOH on Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank.
The auditors will audit the project accounts and financial statements in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). The audit reports will include opinion paragraphs on
the Audited Project Financial Statements (Consolidated), and the accuracy and propriety of
expenditures made under the SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as
a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding each Special Account, the auditor will also be expected
to form an opinion on the degree of compliance with IDA procedures and the balance at the
year-set for each individual special account.
The overall conclusion of the financial management assessments is that, provided the
conditions outlined in section G are met by NPCU prior to credit effectiveness, the Bank's
financial management requirements will be satisfied.
-14 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The team and the government considered but rejected four alternative options:
*   The first option considered was use of an adaptable program lending (APL) instrument. This
option was considered attractive to the extent that it would allow for phasing of state
investments according to defined milestones and for sustained support of the government's
health sector plan over a longer time horizon. On the other hand, an APL implies the
existence of a coherent reform agenda and a roadmap for its implementation. In Nigeria,
additional work is required to reach consensus on the reform agenda and to design its main
elements.
*   The second option which was rejected was a capacity building only operation. A priori, it
might have made more sense to focus initially on building minimum capacities for system
management and subsequently on strengthening the delivery of health services. The consensus
which emerged was that this option would not be politically feasible, given the poor state of
public sector health services and the government's need for rapid democracy dividends.
* A third option considered was to limit to a strict minimum (6) the number of States to benefit
from Component 2 of the project. This option was extensively discussed with both the FMOH
and the States and proved not to be politically acceptable. To collectively oppose this option,
the States formed a "forum" in late 2001, electing among themselves a secretariat. Further
discussions with the FMOH and this secretariat led to the conclusion that 18 States should
benefit from World Bank financing under Component 2. The list of the 18 States to be
included was then established using criteria which, although not fully satisfactory to the Bank,
were accepted as being sufficiently fair and transparent by both the Forum of States and the
FMOH.
*   The Project team also considered moving to programmatic support in line with the
recommendation of a Quality Enhancement Review organized to review the proposed
operation. The goal would have been to provide all states access to funding for priority
activities which would be subject to annual ex-post evaluations. While this option was
considered attractive in responding quickly to Nigeria's urgent needs to restore a minimum
level of service delivery, the consensus which emerged was that it was premature in light of
current conditions in the country.
2. Major related projects rmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
A number of bilateral, multilateral, and non-governmental organizations are active in the
health sector in Nigeria, as can be seen from the table below. These organizations are supporting
projects covering priority areas such as HIV/AIDS, reproductive health and family planning,
health systems development and capacity building.
- 15 -



l  l                        |    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Public Health issues in Sokoto State  Sokoto Health Project
Public Health issues in Imo State  Imo Health and Population        U             S
Project
Non-availability of essential drugs  Essential Drugs Project        U             S
Unduly high fertility rates and maternal National Population Project  U          HU
mortality rates
Weak health service systems in the  Health Systems Fund Project     S             S
public sector
HIV/AIDS                          HIV/AIDS Program
Development Project
(not yet effective)
Other development agencies
WHO                               Basic Health Services
Immunization
Reproductive Health
(RH)/Family Planning (FP)
HIV/AIDS; Sexually
Transmitted Diseases (STD)
Pharmaceuticals
Health Management
Information Systems
TB control
Malaria control
UNICEF                             Basic Health Services
Inmunization
RH/FP
HIV/AIDS; (STD)
Malaria
Guinea Worm
Nutrition/Micronutrient
USAID                             Immunization
RH/FP
HIV/AIDS; STD
UNFPA                              Basic Health Services
RH/FP
HIV/AIDS; STD
DFID                               Basic Health Services
HIV/AIDS; STD
- 16 -



JICA                            Immunization
Roll Back Malaria
Ireland Aid                     Basic Health Services
Imnmunization
Hospital
Development/Infrastructure
Project
RH/FP
HIV/AIDS/STD
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The key lessons derived from the implementation of previous health operations in Nigeria and
in similar contexts can be summarized as follows:
*   Keep the project design simple. In an environment of multiple needs and limited capacities,
such as Nigeria, there is a need to keep the design simple. To this end, the proposed
operation would include only three components and focus on a limited span of activities.
* Move away from financing inputs towards focusing on results on the ground. The financing
of supply driven, traditional investments has yielded limited results, particularly when
beneficiaries have not been adequately consulted. According to the government's completion
report of the Health Systems Fund Project, improvements in health infrastructure did not lead
to increased use of health services. These findings were broadly consistent with results from a
beneficiary assessment carried out as part of project preparation, where the majority of
beneficiaries interviewed said that they continue to rely on traditional medicine rather than
attend the newly renovated facilities. Reasons cited included: lack of drugs and equipment,
few qualified staff, and perceptions of poor quality of care. This highlights the importance of
introducing mechanisms of accountability, rewards for good performance and penalties for
abuse. In the context of this operation, the goal would be to improve accountability through
use of, inter alia, annual work programs based on results, memoranda of understanding,
regular expenditure and performance reviews.
*   Expand involvement of beneficiaries and stakeholders and make them accountable. The
country's tradition of military rule and its three tiers of government make it particularly
challenging to ensure broad based consultation and participation. As explained in the
government's ICR, additional work is required to build community level ownership of health
facilities. To this end, the project would support activities to encourage community
involvement and to assess client satisfaction, so that beneficiary preferences are better
reflected in the future. The project will encourage the participation of the civil society and
private sector in the sector performance reviews and health meetings.
* Establish effective supervision strategies. Experience with the previous health project
demonstrated the importance of strong supervision teams, particularly in light of the variable
- 17 -



institutional capacities and limited knowledge with Bank procedures and guidelines. The new
operation builds and expands on this experience and will finance the activities of consultant
firms , who would be responsible for close support and monitoring of problems in each state.
* Ensure availability of counterpartfunding to facilitate smooth implementation. To redress
the inadequate and irregular availability of counterpart funding during the previous project,
the current design envisions deductions at source.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Nigeria is strongly committed to the implementation of this operation.
Virtually every State Governor has expressed interest in participating in the project and since early
2000, State representatives have worked intensively to prepare, revise and refine their project
proposals. The creation of a " forum" of States with a mandate to speed up the taking off of this
project is also a clear indication of the fact that state governments are keen to borrow money for
these investments and illustrates that health is perceived to be an important element in the State
Government's programs.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support has four key aspects. First, the Bank is in a unique
position to share knowledge and experiences from the implementation of similar operations in
other countries. To this end, the Bank would collaborate with other partners to foster a debate on
new ways of doing business in the health sector, with a particular focus on moving towards
programmatic support, promoting public/partnerships, and broadening health financing options.
Second, the Bank can also leverage project results by working in close collaboration with other
networks on such issues as public sector management and fiscal decentralization, which affect the
effectiveness of health service delivery. Third, while the overall level of financial resources would
be relatively modest, Bank financing would be important in relative terms. An analysis of a
sample of state proposals found that the projected increase in per capita spending related to the
project ranged from 20 to over 100 percent. Fourth, the Bank has and will continue to work
closely with other development partners, notably the African Development Bank, to maximize the
support provided to participating states.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis covers the following: (i) linkages to CAS, (ii) benefits and impact
on health status, (iii) risks, (iv) rationale for public sector investment in the project activities, (v)
poverty assessment and (vi) fiscal impact and sustainability. A high economic return is estimated
using conservative assumptions of project parameters. The high return is robust in the face of
variations in project risks. However, the returns are sensitive to achievement of the expected
increases in service efficacy and use. The analysis underlines the importance of achieving the
- 18-



improvements in system management and implementation to be developed under the project. The
analysis of the distribution impact of the project benefits indicates that the project will provide
important benefits for the poor compared with the general use of health services and the
distribution of income.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Inpact:
The fiscal burden of the project is manageable but is, nevertheless, substantial and requires
a clear understanding of its implications and a strong government commitment, especially at the
state and local levels. The first year initial cash flow requires an addition of 4 percent to the
projected state and local government budgets. On completion the project would require a
sustained increase of 4 percent in state and local budgets. The total size of the budget is 25 to 50
percent of local capital budgets. This will be a sizable addition to the volume of funds normally
managed at the local level and will require additional financial management capacity.
3. Technical:
In order to assist states in designing technically sound proposals, a strong collaborative
arrangement was established between the Bank, key development partners active in the health
sector, and Nigerian counterparts. While the initial state proposals were heavily skewed in favor
of civil works, with a particular emphasis on construction of new secondary hospitals, health
facilities, and nursing schools, the current design focuses more on strengthening the delivery of
basic health services. In spite of progress in the right direction, further work will be needed to
ensure an appropriate mix of interventions. To this end, all states would prepare annual work
programs which would serve as the basis for IDA support. The review of annual work programs
would be done collaboratively with federal and state representatives, and key development
partners.
4. Institutional:
In collaboration with other development partners, the IDA operation would assist
Nigerian authorities to clarify the roles and responsibilities of key institutions in the delivery and
financing of health care in Nigeria. This would involve a broad review of the role of the public
and private sectors in the health care as well as the functional responsibilities of the three tiers of
Government.
The main focus of the institutional assessments carried out to date has been in terms of
procurement and financial management capabilities (next section) and less so on technical
capacities. During the appraisal mission, the team has: (a) clarified which organizations and
individuals will be responsible for key activities; (b) agreed with Government on who will
ultimately be accountable for each project component. The capacity of the designated units to
carry out their procurement and financial management respective responsibilities will be
- 19 -



reassessed as needed but at least for the mid term review. An assessment of technical capacities in
SMOHs will be financed under component 3 and carried out during the second year of the
project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Institutional Arrangement section (Section 4c)
4.2 Project management:
See Institutional Arrangement section (Section 4c)
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement capacity of the Project Implementing Agencies has been assessed. It
was observed that the states that participated in the recently completed HSF I Project have built
more capacity in handling procurement under IDA-financed projects than those whose
procurement has been financed solely through Government funds. Those states that did not
participate in the HSF I operation will receive assistance from the states that did and from the
National Project Coordinating Unit, thereby enhancing efficiency and transparency in the
management of procurement under the project. Procurement of civil works and medical
equipment will be limited to critical requirements for the provision of basic health services.
Procurement of essential drugs will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines on
procurement of pharnaceuticals and will be limited to critical needs. Experience from the closed
Essential Drugs Project and HSF I Project shows that the central drug-purchasing scheme in
Nigeria was unsuccessful due to, inter alia, bureaucratic bottlenecks, ineffective distribution
systems, and inadequate storage facilities. Each participating state would prepare a list of
essential and generic drugs to be supplied which it will purchase in bulk, to the possible extent,
for distribution to health facilities. Contracting of private sector providers will also be promoted,
provided the existing private sector in that state has the necessary capacity. To this end, a
procurement and financial management capacity assessment of the existing pharmaceutical private
sector will need to be carried out to determine its strengths and weaknesses.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The major financial management issue is that government ministries which are responsible
for implementing the project have weak financial management capacity. This is further
compounded by the dearth of professionally qualified accountants in the public sector. Although
this issue is being addressed by creating implementing units that will have suitably qualified core
staff, the Financial Management System (FMS) for the project has to be developed and installed.
Also, while the FMOH has previous experience with implementing Bank projects, implementing
units will be newly created, some of which may not be familiar with World Bank procedures.
Based on the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Nigeria, the overall
country financial management risk is high. The risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds in the
country was assessed as high. The overall project risk from a financial management perspective is
substantial. The risk will be reduced if: (a) the risk mitigation measures identified in Section F2 are
implemented; and (b) the credit effectiveness conditions outlined in Section G are met.
- 20 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project does not raise any significant environmental issues to the extent that it
emphasizes rehabilitation of facilities. The project will not finance new constructions. Adherence
to WHO guidelines on waste management would be emphasized in the operational manual and
staff training.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project would facilitate access to basic health services by groups that have been
previously neglected. Poor families, particularly mothers and children, would be the primary
beneficiaries of the project. Quantitative studies have found low utilization rates at public health
facilities, which cater to the poor. A qualitative social assessment was undertaken as part of
project preparation examined the main reasons people were not using these facilities. While lack
of physical access to services is a problem in some areas, a larger problem seems to be the poor
quality of health services. While wealthier groups can purchase health services from the private
sector, the poor are unable to afford these services and continue to rely on traditional
practitioners. The project would address these issues primarily through improvements in the
quality of care and in the availability of drugs. The project would also put in place a monitoring
and evaluation system to examine the utilization of public health facilities and the impediments to
access by disadvantaged groups, including demand side factors.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been prepared in close collaboration between the federal and state
governments. State proposals have been discussed with local government authorities. A social
assessment has been carried out in five states to assess the needs and expectations of local
- 21 -



assessment has been carried out in five states to assess the needs and expectations of local
communities. The issues addressed relate to the need for: (a) involving communities in
decision-making; (b) addressing gender issues in the design of interventions; and (c) raising the
quality of public sector health services (e.g. access to drugs, qualified personnel). During the life
of the project, community participation would be promoted through the participation of village
health committees in the management and oversight of local health facilities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A number of the participating states are considering using public/private partnerships in
the delivery of health services. The project includes a study which would assess the capacity and
potential of the private sector.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Beneficiary participation on local health committees and in consultation workshops aim to
expand the involvement of civil society in decisions about the provision of health services.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Periodic beneficiary assessments and consumer satisfaction surveys.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
- 22 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project would be determined by three key elements: (i) degree of
ownership of key stakeholders, (ii) implementation capacity, and (iii) timely availability of
adequatefinancial resources, including counterpart funds. While Nigeria does not have a long
standing tradition of participation and consultation, a concerted effort has been made to build into
the project design interventions (e.g. involvement of beneficiaries on local health committees,
autonomy in management of health facilities, consultation workshops, patient satisfaction surveys)
which would strengthen local ownership. The second element of sustainability has been addressed
by incorporating capacity building interventions into the design. Project funds are targeted for
strengthening institutional capabilities at both the state and federal levels. Third, the past problem
with availability of counterpart funds would be addressed through deductions at source. Finally,
other features of the project would also contribute to fostering sustainability. For example, the
emphasis on using a memorandum of understanding between the state and LGA levels, preparing
expenditure analyses, and improving accountability and transparency in budget management
processes would ultimately enhance the sustainability of health sector investments.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient political commitment and      S        Promote and support the conduct of annual
support to health sector reforms and to             sector performance reviews, ensuring
improving govemance                                 representation of a wide variety of stakeholders
and beneficiaries
Support high-level policy dialog
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient capacity at the project       S        Set up a system to facilitate access of states to
management unit level                               technical support and to appropriate information
Dispersion and/or duplication of efforts,  S        Frequent coordination meetings with other
with lack of coordination                           donors and stakeholders
Coordinated reviews of annual workprograms
Project financial management risks         S        Auditing; supervision missions; comprehensive
MOU to be signed by each pair of States
operating a joint SA.
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 23-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Subsidiary agreements have been executed between FMOF and (at least) two pairs of
participating States.
2. The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, including a procurement plan for the first year of the Project.
3. The participating States have adopted the Financial Procedures Manual in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
4. The Borrower has established the Federal PMU (National Project Coordination Unit-NPCU)
with a Project coordinator, accountant, an internal auditor, and a procurement officer, with
qualifications and experience and employed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3.
5. The Borrower and the two pairs of participating States referred to in paragraph (1) above
have appointed, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, an independent auditor for auditing the Project and the special accounts.
6. The Borrower and the two pairs of participating States referred to in paragraph (1) have
opened their respective project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit (equivalent to
three months of counterpart funding requirements- (cf. Section 3.03 (b) of the DCA).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Other conditions:
1. Submit to IDA annual work program(s) and draft budget(s) for the following year by each
participating state and by the Federal Ministry of Health by September 15 of each year.
2. Submit to IDA annual reports on implementation progress by each participating state and
by the Federal Ministry of Health by March 15 of each year.
3. Submit audited project accounts at the latest 6 months after the end of each fiscal year;
submit each participating state budget accounts at the latest six months after the end of the
fiscal year.
4. Submit full justification for construction of local health facilities in under-served areas and
nursing schools.
5. Carry out mid-term review in June 2004.
6. Prepare and submit to IDA by September 30, 2002 (i) detailed instruments for monitoring
and evaluation, (ii) a list of targets and output and outcome indicators and (iii) the TORs
for the monitoring and supervision consultants. Establish by December 31, 2002 and
thereafter maintain a monitoring and evaluation system.
7. Establish and thereafter maintain a National Project Steering Committee in a manner
satisfactory to IDA.
8. The NPCU should be maintained with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
-24 -



Conditions for disbursement.
1. For each participating state: a subsidiary agreement has been executed between the
Borrower and the State, an independent auditor has been appointed, a project account has
been opened and an initial deposit made into each project account in an amount equivalent
to US$ 20,000 for Component 1 States only, US$ 40,000 for components 1 and 2 States
and US$ 100,000 for component 3, a detailed work plan of activities for the first year of
the project has been submitted and approved by the Association. .
2. For Component 3, FMOH will prepare a detailed work plan of activities, including
detailed costs and performance indicators, acceptable to the World Bank
3. The NPCU and the three participating States referred to in paragraph (1) above have
established financial management systems acceptable to the association and have adopted
action plans to enhance the effectiveness of such financial management systems.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
* The first-year Annual Workplan is in preparation. Workplans for the first three states and for
the Federal level will be ready by Negotiations; and will be a condition for disbursement for
the other states.
* The Project Implementation Manual, including the Financial Management Manual and the
procurement plan for the first three states and the federal level, will be ready for adoption by
effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader                    Sector Manager/Director         Country Manage`r     r
May 1, 2002
-25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
Key. Performnance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                          -           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To assist Nigerian authorities Reduction in matemal, infant Demographic and Health  Efforts to improve health
in their efforts to reduce  and under-five mortality rates Surveys (baseline is DHS  status and to reduce
poverty.                                             1999)                      inequalities in health
Reduction in inequalities in  Studies on inequalities in  outcomes leading to reduction
health status and in access to  health               in poverty
health care services
PROGRAM GOALS:
Assist Nigerian authorities in Increased utilization of  Social and beneficiary  Political support for policy
their efforts to: (i) redress the  primary health care facilities  assessments  and institutional reforms at
deterioration in the health                                                    federal and state level
care system and (ii) improve  User satisfaction increased  Special surveys
govemance of public funds                                                       Stable macroeconomic and
allocated to health        Health personnel motivation  Public health sector    fiscal conditions
and satisfaction increased  expenditure reviews
No major political crisis or
Increased per capita public                          civil unrest
spending on health
Increased public spending on Benefit incidence analysis
primary health care services
Increased spending targeted to
the poor
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Strengthen capacities for  Number of states with     Financial management       Strong and continued political
system management at the    approved 3-year rolling and  assessments/project    support to health sector
state level                 annual plans             supervision reports        reforms and to improved
govemance
Proportion of states having
developed state health
accounts
Number of states with
certified/audited financial
statements
Improve the delivery of     Increased utilization of  FMOH/SMOH annual reports Reduced economic and social
primary health care services  primary health care facilities                    barriers to access primary
FMOH/SMOH/NPI reports on health care
Increased proportion of  immunization coverage
children under one year and                         Public/private partnerships for
under two years fully                               the delivery of PHC developed
immunized
Demographic and Health     Adequate supply of vaccines
Increased proportion of   Survey; special surveys;  and cold chain equipment
births attended by skilled  FMOH/SMOH annual reports
-26 -



health personnel (doctor,                          Improved health staff
nurse, midwife)                                     technical skills
Increased TB detection rate
Assist the federal government Improved situation in the five Conclusions of the annual  Sustained high-level political
in the implementation of its  areas of reform: provision of  sector performance reviews  support for policy and
health sector reform agenda  the basic package of services;                    institutional reforms
legal and institutional
framework; role of the private
sector; financial and fiscal
management; and human
resources
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1:                                                                   States have access to
Improve managerial         80% of activities carried out SMOH annual reports   appropriate information and
capacities at the state level  as planned               .        .    .        technical support
Project supervision reports
Increased number of
Memoranda of             Special surveys            SMOH and Project managers
Understanding signed                                focus their efforts on a limited
between the states and the                          number of activities
LGA's
Improve technical skills of the Increased proportion of
Health staff              practicing midwives trained
in life-saving skills
Increased proportion of health
staff at PHC facilities trained
in IMCI
Increased proportion of health
staff (both at PHC and SHC)
trained in DOTS for TB
Strengthen the Health     Increased proportion of States
management information    and LGAs having
system                    implemented the minimum
HMIS package
Improve access to information Increased proportion of states
and exchange of information  having at least 3
communication node sites
fully equipped and functional
Develop research and studies Number of studies carried out
and completed
Component 2:
Improve the delivery of   Proportion of health facilities FMOH/SMOH annual reports
primary health care services  with adequate and functioning
in participating states   cold chain equipment
Proportion of primary health Special surveys on availability
facilities offering essential  and use of obstetric care
obstetric care
-27 -



Proportion of health facilities Health facility surveys
offering access to essential
laboratory exams
Increased proportion of   Project supervision reports
practicing midwives trained
in life-saving skills
Increased proportion of health
staff in PHC facilities trained
in IMCI
Number of TB patients under
directly-observed treatment
Improve quality of training at Number of nursing schools  SMOH reports. Project
nursing schools in        with adequate equipment and  supervision reports
participating states      basic pedagogic materials
Component 3:              Completion and acceptance of Project supervision reports
Assist the Federal        policies for health services
Government in the         delivery
implementation of its health
sector reform agenda      NHMIS capacity and
minimum package provided at
the federal level
Health sector performance
assessments undertaken
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Capacity strengthening for US $ 65.4 million     Project monitoring reports  FMOH capacity to provide
all states                                                                     technical assistance to states
is not jeopardized by staff
turnover and/or competing
demands
Institutional development
measures are put in place
early on in project
implementation
2. Program support for    US $ 76.6 million          Project monitoring reports
qualifying states
3. Capacity strengthening for US $ 9.6 million      Project monitoring reports
Federal Ministry of Health
PPF refinancing           US $ 1.6 million
-28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
This project follows on a first Health Systems Fund project (now closed), where Bank
assistance was provided to 16 states. For this project, all 36 states (plus FCT) have been asked if
they are interested in participating and have been asked to provide the Bank with proposals.
Financial management and procurement capacity assessment were carried out in all states, during
the preparation period.
Given the total credit amount available, the need to have substantial funds in a state to
achieve some progress, and the limited Bank capacity for supervision, not all 36 states in the
country could participate in all activities of the project. The project, therefore, would provide
basic support of a limited nature to all states; and in addition, more extensive program support to
a selected number of states. To qualify for program support, states were selected based on a
number of criteria: financial and procurement capacity; geo-political representation; current level
of indebtedness and population level. A total of 18 states were selected to participate, based on
selection criteria as agreed with the Ministry and with the states. Based on the financial and
procurement capacity assessments made, a total of 22 states qualified. A further selection was
made to bring the number to 18, by including level of indebtedness (as identified from the number
and amount of current Bank projects in the state) and population. The following states were
included in this component: Adamawa, Taraba, Borno, Kebbi, Sokoto (conditional), Zamfara
(conditional), Kogi, Kwara, FCT, Enugu, Ebonyi, Anambra (conditional), Osun, Ondo, Ekiti,
Delta, Rivers, and Bayelsa. The three conditional states will need to ensure that they satisfy
further requirements, prior to their drawing down of the credit. Each state would receive an
average of US $ 3.5 million (in addition to the US $ 1.5 million received from the first
component), with a minimum of US $ 3 million, and additional funds according to their
population level.
The African Development Bank has agreed to co-finance support to an additional 12
states for Component 2. These states are: Bauchi, Yobe, Katsina, Kaduna, Benue, Niger, Imo,
Abia, Oyo, Lagos, Akwa-Ibom, and Edo. AfDB assistance will be according to the same criteria,
with the same content and procedures as the World Bank Component 2 support.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$65.41 million
Strengthening Capacity for System Management (All States)
All interested states would be eligible to participate in this component, which would aim
to: (i) strengthen SMOH departments in planning, management, and technical capacities; and (ii)
provide technical support to health care service delivery providers. No civil works would be
financed under this component.
(i) Capacity strengthening of SMOH. This sub-component aims to improve capacity for health
system management at the state level. To this end, it will provide support to:(i) improve budget
management processes through technical assistance and training at local institutions; (ii) develop
state health accounts; and (iii) initiate use of memoranda of understanding. State officials would
- 29 -



also receive financial and technical support to organize annual performance reviews to discuss
results, lessons learned and share good practices with stakeholders and beneficiaries. The project
would provide financing for technical assistance, staff training and workshops.
(ii) Human Resources Development. This sub-component would support the provision of staff
training with a particular emphasis on maternal and child health, reproductive health, obstetric
care, and communicable disease control. The project would provide funding for: (i) carrying out
participatory training needs assessments; (ii) supporting nursing schools to improve quality of
training programs through renovation/upgrading and equipment of facilities and provision of basic
pedagogic materials; and/or (iii) providing vouchers on a pilot basis to health personnel to select
desired training programs based on criteria and conditions to be determined. The annual work
programs of the states would include details of the training priorities and eligibility criteria to be
applied.
(iii) Health Management Information System. The project would strengthen the HMIS in order
to improve access to basic information for decision making.
(iv) Access to Information Technology and Communications. The project would support
access to intemet, including the necessary technology, for interested states.
(v) Research and Studies. States interested in carrying out studies and technical audits of the
health system would also be supported under this component.
Project Component 2 - US$76.59 million
Strengthening the Delivery of Priority Health Services (Qualifying States)
Qualifying states would receive, in addition and in parallel with Component 1, an average
amount of US $ 3.5 million to support their programs. Each state would be eligible to determine
what would be requested to be financed. Financing would be agreed annually with each state,
based on the state annual workplan after discussion with the Bank and within the context of the
overall project objectives. In this component, the Bank would finance a maximum of 35% on civil
works, 45% on goods and equipment, with the remainder for technical assistance and training.
In general, financing would aim to improve the quality and efficiency of primary health
care services by strengthening local health facilities and selective secondary level referral centers.
Emphasis would be placed on strengthening immunization services, safe motherhood
interventions, and communicable disease control.
The proposed child health interventions are based on the internationally approved strategy
of Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) which represents a cost effective
approach for addressing the most common causes of child mortality in Nigeria. There is now
broad based acceptance among participating states to adopt this strategy which aims to reduce
mortality in children under 5 through integrated case management of childhood deaths arising
from: acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, measles, malaria, and malnutrition. With technical
support from WHO and the USAID-financed BASICS Project, all participating states have
attended workshops which provide them with technical support in costing out the specific IMCI
interventions to be carried out with IDA financing.
- 30 -



The maternal health interventions to be supported under the project would also be based
on an internationally accepted strategy for addressing issues related to safe motherhood. To
address the excessively high rate of maternal mortality in Nigeria, annual state work programs
would include financing of the following interventions of the Mother-Baby Package: access to
family planning services, antenatal care, skilled attendant at birth, and management of
complications from unsafe abortions. The strengthening of state nursing schools would improve
the supply of skilled attendants at birth and the provision of medical equipment and materials
would enable health facilities and referral hospitals to better address obstetric emergencies during
pregnancy and childbirth. The overall improvements in primary health care to be supported under
the project, in combination with greater involvement of communities and support for
strengthening obstetric care in selective secondary level facilities, would also contribute in
stimulating the demand for and strengthening the provision of these services.
The communicable disease control activities are also based on strategies which have been
documented to be cost effective. Addressing communicable diseases will require a comprehensive
and integrated approach that seeks to extend the coverage of services, improve quality, increase
community awareness, increase the capacity of health personnel, and ensure surveillance and
monitoring. Joint approaches to planning, training, supervision and surveillance can support
improvements across many health indicators. Supporting health workers to provide care for all
patients requires that the technical packages for each of the major communicable diseases be
operationalized through the primary health care network and into communities. These aims are
consistent with the general aims of strengthening the health system and provide focus for attaining
measurable outcomes. States which have identified communicable disease control as a priority in
their PIPs would be provided technical support to introduce these technical packages.
Support would be provided for rehabilitation and equipment of a select number of
facilities, improving access to water, and provision of logistical means (i.e. vehicles).
Participating states are undertaking an inventory of existing facilities, in order to identify priority
rehabilitation needs. The project would support rehabilitation of existing local health facilities.
Funds would be provided to enable newly rehabilitated facilities to operate satisfactorily over a
given period of time, while mechanisms are put in place for ensuring sustainability.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.62 million
Capacity Strengthening for key public health systems, functions and processes for Federal Ministry
of Health
This component would provide assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health to build
capacity within the framework of the Government's health sector reform agenda. Specifically,
assistance would be provided to the FMOH to: (a) strengthen capacity in the areas of policy
making and systems development; (b) strengthen the health management information system and
capacity to assess the health sector performance; (c) support essential national health research;
and (d) carry out project monitoring and evaluation.
- 31 -



(a) Strengthening capacity in the areas ofpolicy making and systems development. Under this
sub-component, the project would respond to the challenges of sustaining the health sector reform
initiatives through supporting strategic interventions for policy making, good-governance,
including the health system response to poverty reduction strategies.
(b) Strengthening the Health Management Information System and capacity to assess the
health sector performance. The project would support the provision of the necessary capacity
and minimum package for the NHMIS, introduction of Internet access, support for
computerization of FMOH departments and training of officers to operate the system, and
carrying out of annual Health sector performance assessments.
(c) Support for Essential National Health Research: Under this sub-component, the project
would promote and finance research programs on Health Care Financing and will provide support
for essential national health research and audit studies.
(d) Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would provide support for
project management and coordination, including through activities aiming at building capacity for
NPCU as well as Planning cells and Monitoring and Evaluation units of the FMOH. The project
would finance implementation support activities and would support the establishment and
operation of the National Project Steering Committee (NPSC) to: (i) undertake periodic reviews
of the project and contributing to resolving project implementation constraints; (ii) provide
strategic direction to project management to facilitate its task; (iii) prepare reviews and
recommendations to government on matters pertaining to the project.
Project Component 4 - US$1.60 million
PPF Refinancing.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
Loal       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Capacity Strengthening for all states                 40.64         13.36        54.00
2. Program Support to Qualifying States                  46.46         16.54        63.00
3. Capacity Strengthening of Federal Ministry of Health   5.85          2.15         8.00
PPF Refinancing                                            1.60         0.00         1.60
Total Baseline Cost                                      94.55         32.05       126.60
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     25.42          1.20        26.62
Total Project Costs'            119.97        33.25        153.22
Total Financing Required             119.97        33.25        153.22
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Civil Works                                                18.90          0.00         18.90
Goods                                                      13.14         24.41         37.55
Training                                                   36.96          1.94         38.90
Consultants Services                                       17.10          5.70        22.80
Operating Costs                                             6.85          0.00          6.85
PPF Refinancing                                             1.60          0.00          1.60
Price Contingencies                                        25.42          1.20        26.62
Total Project Costs'    119.97         33.25       153.22
Total Financing Required    119.97          33.25       153.22
Identifiable taxes and duties are 13.35 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 139.86 (USr$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.81%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 33 -



Annex 4
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
Economic Analysis
The economic analysis covers the following aspects: (i) linkages to CAS, (ii) benefits, (iii) risks,
(iv) rationale for public sector investment in the project activities, (v) poverty assessment and (vi) the
project's fiscal impact and sustainability.
I. Linkages to CAS
The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated May 18, 2000
(#20309) and the draft CAS of March 23, 2001. The draft CAS emphasizes three areas that are addressed
in the project: strengthening social services to support poverty reduction and community development,
improving govemance in the public sector, and private sector development.
Improved social services for poor communities is a central theme of the project. The improvement
will be achieved by strengthening the technical content and reliability of health services to meet the needs of
the poor and increasing the availability of services in poor communities. Local facility autonomy and
community involvement will be promoted in the structure and funding of the project. The project will
support improved govemance, efficiency and productivity in the public sector by strengthening budget
management, procurement, information systems, and system management. Finally, the project will provide
modest support for private sector development through contracting private sector providers to improve
supplies and technical content of services and refining project content (state service proposals) based on
studies of the private sector.
II. Benefits
Project benefits in the form of improved health status (i.e. reduced mortality and morbidity) will be
created by the improved quality and availability of services resulting from the strong focus on priority
disease groups, improved training in the provision of services, improved infrastructure, and improved
availability of supplies, vaccines and drugs. In addition, the project will increase the likelihood of
achieving the expected levels of service delivery by institutional support to strengthen efficiency of service
delivery and capacity for improved management.
This analysis examines whether the value of these possible benefits is worth the cost of the project
under conservative assumptions of project impact. The benefits are estimated from: (a) an increase in the
proportion of the population using health services in response to improved availability and the attraction of
improved quality, (b) a reduction in morbidity and mortality of priority diseases, (c) an improvement in the
reliability of service provision from the strengthened management capacity. The analysis is carried out on
data for sixteen states: Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Benu, Boro, Ebony, Ekiti, Enugu, Kaduna, Katsina, Kogi,
Kwara, Lagos, Ondon, Osun, Oyo, and Rivers and then extrapolated to a total of 25 states.
Table 1 provides a list of the seven basic disease groups that are the priority targets of the project.
The disease groups include the basic health conditions widely recognized as priority areas and amenable to
interventions with established cost effectiveness. The table gives an estimate of the annual years of healthy
life lost per thousand population (from mortality, morbidity and disability) from these seven categories and
from all causes per thousand people in the project states. (The table is approximate, the underlying
parameters are derived from the 1993 World Development Report, Sub-Saharan Africa model).
- 34-



Table 1: Burden of Disease from Priority Disease Groups for Nigeria (2000)
Priority Disease Group          Healthy Years of Life Lost
Per 1000 Population
NIGERIA          OECD
Childhood Immunization Diseases               41              <1
Diarrhea                                      43               -
Acute Respiratory Disease                      41              1
Matemal Conditions                             8              <1
Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HIV          8              4
Tuberculosis                                   20              -
Malaria                                       36              -
Sub-total of Priority Groups     228             5
Other                                         233--           114
Total          461             119
There is no precise way of measuring the potential benefits from the project under consideration,
but it is possible to evaluate a modest change in healthy life years that could plausibly be attributed to
quality improvements and to increased service availability planned in the project and compare these
possible benefits with the cost of the project. Thus, the project can be examined for its viability in terms of
its internal design parameters. Project benefits in the form of increased healthy life will be derived from
decreased morbidity and mortality for the priority diseases.
Given baseline estimates of health system use and efficacy for the priority areas, a gain in healthy
life years can be estimated based on a target increase in the overall effectiveness of health services. This
increase is calculated from increased use and greater efficacy of services for the priority diseases. The
baseline rates for childhood diseases, diarrhea, ARI and matemal conditions are derived from the 1999
Demographic and Health Survey. Efficacy rates in the current Nigeria operations environment are based
on literature and subjective estimates of practitioners. Using this information and an assumption of a 10
percent increase in system effectiveness (increased use and efficacy for the priority diseases), the total
annual gain in healthy life years from the completed project for the population of the 25 project states
would be 268,000. To obtain a monetary value to compare with project expenditures a healthy year of life
is valued at the net national product per capita. Using a value of US$300 per capita, the value of the
estimated gain of healthy years of life in one year from the completed project would be greater than US$80
million per year.
A ten percent increase in the operational context of Nigeria is not small and requires strong
management to be realized. The need for strong management to attain the planned project outcomes
underlines the importance of the capacity building and local system management components in the project.
A ten percent increase in effectiveness is actually very difficult to achieve in the experience of other
sector-wide projects in low income countries. Larger percentages can be achieved with focused small
projects covering smaller areas and populations, but to achieve this size of gain will require a concerted
effort covering all facilities and staff in state-wide efforts. It also will require considerable behavioral
change in a large population. The sensitivity of the project to assumptions and parameters in the analysis is
reported in Section III on risks below.
- 35 -



The project disbursement profile and estimated recurrent costs for the project provide the pattern of
cost over time. Project benefits on health status are forecast to be negligible in the first and second years of
the project and then 10%, 20%, 40%, 60% and 80% of the completed total in the third through seventh
years from the start of the project and 100% thereafter through a ten year time horizon after project
completion. Using this time stream of benefits and costs, the internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is
27 percent and the net present value of benefits minus costs (NPV) with a real discount rate of 10 percent
is US$149 million.
III. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
In addition to the political and commitment risks noted in the draft CAS and faced in all sectors,
the salient project risks are primarily institutional and are created by: (a) unreliable budgeting and recurrent
finance, (b) insufficient implementation, planning and design capacity at federal and state levels, (c)
inadequate local management, and (d) insufficient technical capacity at the federal level to provide technical
support throughout the project. These risks interact. The threat of unreliable budgeting could prevent the
use of required technical assistance and capacity development measures early in the project. This lack of
early attention to institutional development could hamper later implementation of the technical aspects of
the project. Discussion of these risks and project adjustments to minimize them is given in section F.2.
The economic implications of these risks are that they may prevent attainment of the assumed levels of
project effectiveness and the project may not achieve the estimated benefits and rate of return.
To estimate the sensitivity of the project to these risks, the response of project benefits is examined
for a range of the parameters representing project effects. For example, problems in management and
counterpart budgeting or lack of technical support could result in a failure to achieve the effectiveness of
the targeted program forecast in section II. This failure is approximated by examining the change in net
benefits as the gain of the program's effectiveness falls from 10% to 5%. Similarly, failure to provide
sufficient technical support or maintain management focus on specific disease priorities is approximated by
reducing increased coverage and efficacy of the inimunization program from 10% to 0. Finally, poor
management, insufficient design and planning capacity or delayed funding is approximated by a reduction
in the number of states with adequate proposals and full implementation from 25 to 16. This would reduce
project costs for the state components but would also reduce state project benefits.
It is found that the net present value (NPV) of the project falls to 0 with a fall in the gain in overall
technical effectiveness to 5%. This illustrates the high sensitivity of the project outcomes to good
implementation including sound management, timely financing, and strong technical capacity. The crucial
importance of immunization interventions supported by the project is demonstrated by the fall in NPV from
US$149 million to US$52 million with a reduction of increased immunization program effectiveness from
10% to 0%. This underlines the importance of maintaining the programs' focus on priority diseases.
Finally, the importance of good technical support and capacity development for the states is illustrated by
the fall in the NPV of the project from US$149 million to US$102 million if only 16 states carry through
with completion of adequate proposals and full participation in the project.
- 36-



NPV Sensitivity to Selected Values of Economic Analysis
Parameter                Range of        Result Rage of IRR  Result Rage of NPV
Values                                  (US$ 000,000)
Increase in System Effectiveness for Prorties  5% - 10%     <0% - 27%             0 - 149
Increase in Immunization Effectiveness     0% - 10%         6% - 27 %             52 - 149
Increase in HIV/AIDS Effectiveness         0% - 10%         27% - 27%            145- 149
Number of State in Project                  16 - 25        26% - 27 %            102 - 149
Discount rate (real)                       5% - 15%             -                 74 - 363
Value of One Year of Healthy Life Lost (US$)  $250- $350    23% - 31%            104- 194
IV. Rationale for Public Sector Investment in Health System Development
The rationale for public sector investment in health system development comes from an interaction
of a public welfare loss caused by the inequitable availability of socially acceptable quality services and
failures in provision and financing of markets for modem quality services.
*   Welfare Loss. The welfare loss is created by: (a) the lack of available and accessible services,
especially in rural areas and (b) the low quality and accessibility of services, especially to the poor.
*   Market Failures. The market failures resulting in inadequate development of private services come
from: (a) lack of consumer information on effectiveness of the health system to cater to their needs, (b)
lack of incentives to provide quality private medical services focused on social and sector priorities, (c)
lack of incentives and a market for preventive services with important social benefits but diffused and
poorly recognized individual benefits.
V. Poverty Assessment
This section provides an assessment of the benefit incidence of the project by wealth group.
Starting from 1999 baseline distributions by wealth quintile of: (1) the population using public health
services for treatment of priority diseases, and (2) disease prevalence, the distribution of project benefits
can be derived. Information is taken from the Nigeria 1999 Demographic and Health Survey and Gwatkin
et al on the use of services by wealth group. The same sources are used for the baseline estimates of the
prevalence of priority diseases and use of bad water and sanitation. This information allows the derivation
of "Lorenz" curves summarizing the disease burden and service use by wealth decile for the project (see the
figure). Quintile information was interpolated to integrate with population and benefits information
available by decile and to provide smoother curves to plot (see the figure).
- 37 -



Distribution of Wealth,
Service Need and Use for Health (1999)
100 -   -     -- 
90 --
.   80
@  70                                      - _   -  Diagonal
im                              o ~~~~~~~~~-Use Public
.J 60 _ _                                     Wealth
E  50        40 -                           dU5M
O30 -       8        _ 
o   U--                                      Diarrhea/ARI
'.  20  ---
10 
0  -
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
% of Population
The project benefits will have a differential incidence across income groups depending on: (I) the
differential use of the services supported under the project, and (2) the differential prevalence of disease.
The values of the benefits (estimated in the benefit section above) derived from disease reduction are
distributed across wealth group according to proportional use and case burden. The heavy solid line below
the diagonal in the figure represents the distribution of project benefits.
In the figure, the distribution of the project benefits are compared with: (a) the distribution of
wealth in Nigeria, (b) the distribution of the use of public health services, (c) the distribution of the burden
of diarrhea and ARI, (e) distribution of bad sanitation and under five mortality.
The analysis suggests that the project benefits (the Gini ratio is 0.05) are distributed more
equitably than all public health services (the Gini ratio is 0.20) and much more equitably than the general
wealth distribution (the Gini ratio is 0.32). This is achieved by the focus on priority diseases which have a
greater prevalence among the poor. The project does not have the dramatic redistribution effect, however,
that would be obtained from programs targeted more specifically to access by the poor. This is expected
from the general impact of the project on service quality across state public health sectors. A small but
significant part of the project effects will inevitably accrue across the sector to public services which are
used disproportionately by upper income groups. However, by far the largest part of project benefits will
accrue to middle and lower income groups and have the intended social welfare effects, and contribute to
greater equity.
VI. Fiscal Sustainability
The fiscal impact of the project, both during implementation and after completion, is reasonable for
a sector wide project but requires a clear commitment to funding on the part of the federal and local
financing authorities. Limited state and local information was available for this analysis. The analysis will
need to be revised after consultation with financial authorities in Nigeria. The analysis assumes that: (I)
- 38 -



government budgets grow at the rate projected for GNP under the base scenario used in current World
Bank projections (2.5 percent real growth rate), and (2) allocations among Government levels, functions
and line items remain stable at the level of the most recent available data. Under these assumptions, the
Government's share of the incremental cost of the project is equal to 2 percent of total projected health
budgets (total of federal, state and local levels). At the local level (state and local), the Govermment's share
of the state components requires an addition of 4 percent to the projected health budgets.
Critical Budget Ratios for Fiscal Analysis
Budget Ratio             FY2001 FY2002 FY2003 FY2004 FY2005 FY2006
Government Proj CosV Total Gov Budgets  0.01  0.01    0.01    0.02    0.02
Gov Inv Cost-State Comp/Local Cap Budgets  0.02  0.03  0.03   0.04    0.04
Increm. Rec Costs / Local Recurrent Budgets  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.02   0.03   0.04
Gov cash flow required / Total Budgets  0.04  0.02    0.01    0.03    0.01   0.01
Total Cap Cost-State Comp / State Cap Bdgt  0.25  0.37  0.35  0.50    0.48     -
On completion, after 2006, the fiscal cost of incremental state and local budgets to cover
maintenance, supplies and other new operating expenses would require an addition of 4 percent to projected
local budgets. This forecast burden needs to be reviewed with the borrower and clear commitments
obtained from the participating states and federal government to cover the sustained recurrent cost of the
project.
The total Government cash flow required to implement the project is 4 percent of the aggregate
health budget (across all levels of government) during the first project year falling to I percent over the life
of the project. The availability of the needed counterpart funds for the first year should be confirmed
during appraisal.
In terms of the size, the financial impact of the project at the local levels will be substantial. The
total project cost of the state components (all financiers) is from 30 to 50 percent of the non-project capital
budgets. This will be an order of magnitude increase in the amount of money normally managed in local
sector budgets and will require additional financial management capacity.
- 39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
Years Ending
2007
Year 1    Year 2  I Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         14.2      32.8      38.9      36.4      22.2       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           1.4        1.6       1.7       1.9       2.1       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        15.6      34.4      40.6      38.3      24.3       0.0       0.0
Total Financing            15.6      34.4      40.6      38.3      24.3       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 13.3      28.7      33.6      31.5      19.9      0.0       0.0
Govemment                2.3        5.7       7.0       6.8       4.4      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-flnanciers            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiarles     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   15.6      34.4      40.6       38.3      24.3      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Not applicable
-40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - II
Procurement
General
I.    The procurement system in Nigeria is in the process of being reformed at the Federal,
State and Local Governments levels. The Government Procurement Reform program was
fashioned in line with the recommendations of the year 2000 Nigeria Country Procurement
Assessment Report. All the three tiers of governments are operating under the Financial
Regulations (FR), which are essentially an internal set of rules for economic controls of the
Federal, States and Local governments administrations. The CPAR identified major weaknesses in
the procurement polices and practices in Nigeria and made appropriate short-term, medium-term
and long-term recommendations. Based on the short-term recommendations of the 2000 Nigeria
CPAR, the procurement procedures section of the FR at the Federal government level, was
revised on June 27, 2001, to ensure clarity and transparency by incorporating details of the
various procurement methods and their applications for goods, works and services among others.
For now, this revision applied to the Federal component of the project as the states are yet to
adopt these changes. However, it is envisaged that the States and Local governments will adopt
(as usual) the revised FR. To make this possible, the Federal Government is making arrangements
to disseminate the findings and recommendations of the CPAR at State and LGAs Level. The
ineffective Federal and Departmental Tender Boards have been abolished while the Ministerial
Tender Boards have been strengthened with powers to approve contract awards. Also
Procurement Reform Implementation unit (PRIU) and Steering Committee that would initiate and
supervise initial implementation of reforms have been established at the Federal Government level.
The reforms have five main features:
Enactment of a new procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model law.
Establishment of a public procurement oversight body, the Public Procurement
Commission (PCC), independent of the Tender boards with responsibility for the efficiency and
effectiveness of the procurement function across the public sector
Revision of Key areas of the Financial Regulations to make them more transparent.
Deep restructuring of Tender Boards and approval procedures for contracts. Specifically,
abolish Federal Tender Board and Departmental Tender Boards and strengthening Ministerial
Tender Boards by vesting them with powers to approve contract awards.
Building procurement capacity in the public sector through a restoration of
professionalism in procurement and intensive training of procurement staff.
Until government takes major steps to reform the procurement policies and practices in the
country (which may not happen until about two years into the project implementation),
procurement risk for doing business in Nigeria will be high. Therefore the procurement risk for
the proposed project is rated "High".
- 41 -



Use of Bank Guidelines
2.    All goods, works and services financed under the IDA credit will be procured in
accordance with the appropriate IDA Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised in September 1997 and January 1999). To the extent
practicable Bank's standard bidding documents for works and goods, including IDA Standard
Bidding Document for procurement of Health Sector Goods (Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
Condoms), May 2000 version, and Standard Requests for Proposals for consultants as well as all
standard evaluation forms will be used throughout project implementation. Since there are no
National Standard Bidding Documents, the Bank's Standard Documents for goods and works
shall be adopted (in the form satisfactory to IDA), for use for all NCB procurement packages
under the project. However, NCB procedures will ensure that (i) bids will be advertised in
national newspapers with wide circulation; (ii) the bid document clearly explains the bid
evaluation and award criteria; (iii) bidders are given adequate response time (minimum four
weeks) to prepare and submit bids; (iv) bids will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder and
not arbitrarily; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, will not be precluded from
participating; and (vi) no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic manufacturers
or suppliers.
Advertising
3.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN
Development Business and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN
will be updated on a yearly basis and will show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for goods contracts and all International consulting services. In addition, a Specific
Procurement Notice (SPN) is required for all goods and works to be procured under ICB and
Expressions of Interest (EOI) for all consulting services with a value in excess of US$ 100,000.
All NCB procurement packages for goods and works will be advertised in the national dailies.
The related bidding documents for goods and works will not be released, and the short list for
consultant services will only be prepared eight weeks after the GPN has been published.
Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain the bidding documents.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
4.    A formal assessment of the capacity of the national and state-level MOH has been
conducted in accordance with Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guidelines dated
August 11, 1998. The assessment outlines the main issues and recommendations and is in the
project files. Generally, the existing procurement polices and practices are based on the Federal
Government Financial Regulations and State Financial Regulations derive from the FGN FR. The
methods used by both the Federal and State governments in administering their (government
funded procurement packages) in most cases are neither economical nor totally transparent. There
-42 -



is generally a lack of appropriate procurement planning leading, in most cases, to uneconomic
procurement. However, most of the States that will be implementing Component 2 of the project,
that will strengthen the delivery of priority health services, have either participated in the closed
Health System Fund SHF Project, or implemented World Bank financed projects in the past.
Therefore, they have has built some procurement capacity for Bank financed projects in a more
economic, efficient and transparent way. All the States are implementing Component 1 of the
project which is mainly to strengthen the capacity of the State Health Ministry in the area of
planning, procurement and financial management, monitoring and evaluation. This component will
assist these States to build the required procurement capacity. To facilitate proper implementation
of the project in all the states and FGN levels, the following action plan was agreed with the
Borrower:
(a)   Federal and States PIUs will be staffed with relevant technical professionals among which
shall be an experienced Procurement Specialist/Officer.
(b)   Federal and State-level MOH would have established their PIUs, including a Procurement
Specialist, by credit effectiveness;
(c)   The PIUs at Federal and States levels will prepare a detailed first year procurement plan
as a disbursement conditions;
(d)   The Federal PIU will prepare a comprehensive Procurement Manual for the project. The
manual will be adopted by the States PIUs before project effectiveness.
(e)   Relevant PIU Staff to attend procurement course at training institutes such as GIMPA or
procurement workshops organized by the Bank not later than three months after effectiveness.
(f)   Hold contract management workshop for PIU officials not later than three months after
effectiveness.
(g)   PIUs at both federal and State to hold meetings with the Business Communities in their
environment after preparation or adoption of Procurement Manual not later than six months after
effectiveness.
5.    One of the major problems in project implementation in Nigeria is the change of staff
mid-stream. During negotiations, assurances will be sought from the Borrower that staff who will
have received training under the project will not be changed except for reasons to be mutually
agreed between the Government and IDA.
Procurement Planning
6.    The Borrower will prepare a detailed procurement plan for the first year activities for
Federal and State level activities as a condition of disbursement for the States. The plans will be
updated yearly, sent to IDA for clearance not later than three months before the end of each fiscal
year. A project launch workshop will be organized before effectiveness to familiarize the PIUs
-43 -



and other institutions involved in the execution of project with Bank procedures. The workshop
will cover procurement policy and procedures and their applications to the procurement
arrangement planned for project implementation, disbursement, reporting and auditing
requirements. There are no existing procurement manuals at all levels of project implementation
units. Therefore the Federal PIU will hire the services of a consultant to assist the project to
prepare a comprehensive procurement manual acceptable to IDA, before effectiveness.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that such manuals will be adopted by all the States as
a condition for disbursement for the states.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
7.    The overall coordination and implementation of the project procurement activities will be
the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Health for the Federal component and all the 36
States' Ministry of Health including the Federal Capital Territory, Department of Health Services
for the states and FCT activities respectively. However, such responsibility shall be delegated to
the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) that have been established both at Federal and States
levels. The Federal and States level PIUs, will consist of at least a Procurement Officer/Specialist
that is conversant with Bank procurement procedures. PIUs with weak procurement capacity, will
recruit using a competitive process, a Procurement Specialist or Procurement Consultant. The
Procurement Consultant will train and re-train relevant PIUs in World Bank procurement
procedures.
Procurement Methods
8.    The bulk of the project will be implemented by State-level PIUs who will carry out their
own procurement for their respective annual action plans which, individually, are small in size.
Goods (US$41.2 million)
9.    The project will finance items such as medical equipment and supplies, drugs (generic
names), vehicles, office equipment, computers and accessories, and communication equipment.
To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased by FMOH and the
States will be grouped into bid packages to take advantage of bulk purchase. Each contract
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more will be procured under ICB procedures
using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Each contract for goods estimated to cost less than
US$150,000 up to an aggregate of US$12,000,000 will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement for readily
available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard specification commodities for
individual contracts of less than US$30,000, up to an aggregate of US$6,800,000, will be
procured using shopping procedures as detailed in paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Procurement of goods and hiring of facilities for training purposes, such as workshops, will also
be carried out using Bank shopping procedures. Notwithstanding the above provisions, Limited
International Bidding (LIB) may be required for a few drugs and medical and other goods which
may be available from only a limited number of suppliers, not to exceed an aggregate amount of
$3,600,000. In cases where only one supplier exists, Direct Contracting, not to exceed an
- 44 -



aggregate amount of US$1,500,000, will be acceptable. All direct contracting will be subject to
IDA's prior review.
10.  Procurement from United Nations Agencies: Notwithstanding the above provisions,
vehicles and equipment up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$80,000 per state may be
procured from IAPSO. Also, drugs, medical equipment, medical supplies, and laboratory supplies
up to a total aggregate amount not exceeding US$5,400,000 may be procured from UNICEF,
UNFPA and WHO, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Civil Works (US$24.7million)
11.  Civil works contracts, mostly to rehabilitate existing health facilities and construction of
limited number of new facilities in some States under the state component of the project, will be
small, scattered geographically, labor intensive and spread over time. They will not lend
themselves to grouping and therefore are unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Therefore, the
contracts will be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures
acceptable to IDA. In any event, any individual civil works contract costing US$300,000 and
above will be procured using ICB procedures. Each contract for civil works estimated to cost less
than US$300,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of $18,750,000 will be procured using NCB
procedure. In the cases where civil works contracts are estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$6,000,000, these may be procured under lump-sum fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall among other things include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, relevant drawings and bill of
quantities where applicable, the required completion date and a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank. A sufficient bid submission period will be allowed and the bids will be
opened in public. Before the first bidding package by each state is solicited, the draft solicitation
letter and other relevant document to be used, will be reviewed and cleared by the Bank. The
award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive contractor who has appropriate
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
12.   In cases where the quantity of work cannot be defined in advance (e.g. in the riverine
areas of Bayelsa and Rivers States), where the works are less than US$30,000 and too scattered
to attract private contractors, in cases of emergency, and where works must be carried out
without disrupting ongoing operations, direct contracting or force account procedures can be
used. The total aggregate value of such force account shall not exceed US$3,000,000.
13.  To ensure that these limits are observed, each quarterly progress report of the project will
include a table setting out the number and value (in US$ equivalent) of contracts issued through
Local, International Shopping, LIB, NCB, Direct Contracting, and Force Account, during the
quarter as well as the cumulative total value (in US$ equivalent) of contract under each of these
two procedures from the date of the project start-up.
Consulting Services ($45.0 million)
-45 -



14.   These services include conducting studies, technical assistance and support of project
execution. As a rule, consultant services will be procured though Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost US$100,000 or
more will be procured through QCBS and will be advertised in Development Business and in at
least two national newspapers. In addition, the scope of the service may be advertised in an
international newspaper or magazine seeking "expressions of interest." In the case of assignments
estimated to cost less than US$150,000, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the
shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants in accordance with section 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines (i.e. that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country
and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration). Consultant
services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications of consultants, who have expressed an interest in the job or who
have been identified. Consultantcy assignments for financial audits, engineering design of simple
works and other repetitive task, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may
be procured under contract awarded in accordiance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6
of the Cosultant Guidelines. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured
under individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the
Guidelines. Consultants for assignments of a standard routine nature such as audits and
engineering design of simple works, may be selected on the basis of Least-Cost method.
Training ($32.1 million)
15.   At the beginning of each year, each PIU will submit their proposed staff development
plans for the next twelve months. The plans would indicate the persons or groups to be trained,
the type of training to be provided, the level of competency that each participant would be
expected to achieve through this training, the provider or location of the training, and its
estimated cost. Some training would take place in-country, either at registered training
institutions or by contracting national, regional or international experts to provide specialized
training in each state and at Federal level. In addition, Project PIU Training Officers will be
trained in order to assist their unit to develop the necessary annual training plans. Training and
workshops will be carried out on the basis of approved annual programs, to be review by IDA. To
the extend possible, all training contracts costing US$15,000 equivalent or more per contract, will
be contracted using competitive process.
IDA Prior Review
16.   Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to cost
US$150,000 equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 of
appendix I of the Guidelines. The first two National Competitive Bidding packages for civil works
of each state shall be subject to IDA prior review. All direct contracting or force account
packages will be subject to IDA prior review. Other contracts will be subject to post review in
accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing
US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 and more for individuals will be subject
to IDA prior review. All single-source selection of consultants and tenns of reference for
consulting services will be subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior
-46 -



review contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will
be subject to IDA clearance. All training contracts costing US$15,000 equivalent or more per
contract, will be subject to IDA prior review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
[Costs for drugs and other goods will be disaggregatedfollowing discussion with
Government at appraisal]
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            23.43         1.24         0.00        24.67
(0.00)          (18.75)       (0.99)       (0.00)      (19.74)
2. Goods                            12.35           12.34         16.46        0.00        41.15
(12.35)          (9.98)       (14.70)       (0.00)     (37.03)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          32.08        0.00        32.08
Training                            (0.00)          (0.00)       (25.67)      (0.00)      (25.67)
4. Consultants Services             0.00            0.00          44.98         0.00       44.98
(0.00)          (0.00)        (35.98)      (0.00)      (35.98)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00          8.74         0.00         8.74
(0.00)          (0.00)        (6.99)       (0.00)      (6.99)
6. PPF Refinancing                  0.00            0.00          1.60         0.00         1.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.60)       (0.00)      (1.60)
Total                            12.35           35.77         105.10        0.00       153.22
(12.35)         (28.73)       (85.93)       (0.00)     (127.01)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
aIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through intemational or national shopping, intemational
limited bidding, direct contracting or force accounts, procurement from U.N. Agencies, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services and other incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local government units.
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category         (US$)                  Method              (US$ mi!lions)
1. Works                US$300,000 and above          ICB                     All
Less than US$300,000          NCB              1st contracts, then post
review
Less than US$50,000        3 quotations       Ist contracts, then post
review
Less than $30,000   Direct Contracting or Force      All
Account              (Ist contracts =
for federal level as
well as for each state)
2. Goods                US$150,000 and above           ICB                    All
US$30,000-US$150,000           NCB              1st contracts, then post
review
Less than US$30,000         Shopping               Post review
All Procurement from UN     UN Agencies                 All
Agencies
Some drugs and medical    Direct contracting           All
supplies
3. Services             US$100,000 and above          QCBS                    All
Below US$100,000 (firms)         CQ                  Post review
US$50,000 and above            IC                     All
(individual)
Below US$50,000               IC                  Post review
(individual)
4. Training             US$15,000 and above         QCBS/CQ                    All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$100 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
ICB - International Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; QCBS - Quality and Cost
Based Selection: CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; IC - Individual Consultant.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
17.   The Project may adopt Quarterly PMR-based disbursement procedures using the
Special Account facility after 18 months of project implementation or such later date as
mutually agreed. In the beginning of the project, traditional disbursement procedures will
be used as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
18.   The proceeds of the IDA credit will be disbursed against 80% of all expenditures
for consultants and training, 100% of foreign expenditures for goods and civil works, while
the percentage of financing will be 80% if same are procured locally. Operating costs will
also be fnanced at 80%. As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles,
disbursements will be completed by four months after project closure. With these
percentages, IDA will be financing 100% of foreign cost, and 88% of local costs.
Disbursements will be made against standard IDA documentation.
-49 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            US$million        Financing percentage
1. CIVIL WORKS                                        100% foreign expenditures
80% local expenditures
(a)   FMOH                               0.00
.(b)  Abia                               0.00
(c)   Adamawa                            0.95
(d)   Akwa Ibom                          0.00
(e)   Anambra                            0.95
L(f)  Baleysa                            0.95
(g)   Bauchi                             0.00
(h)   Benue                              0.00
(i)   Borno                              0.95
(i)   Cross Rivers                       0.00
(k)   Delta                              0.95
-0)   Ebonyi                             0.95
(m)   Edo                                0.00
(n)   Ekiti                              0.95
(o)   Enugu                              0.95
(p)   FCT                                0.95
(g)   Gombe                              0.00
((r)  Imo                                0.00
(s)   Jigawa                             0.00
(t)   Kaduna                             0.00
(u)   Katsina                            0.00
(v)   Kebbi                              0.95
(w)   Kogi                               0.95
.(x)  Kwara                              0.95
_(Y)  Lagos                              0.00
(z)   Nassarawa                          0.00
(aa)  Niger                              0.00
_(bb) Ogun                                0.00
(cc)  Ondo                                0.95
(dd)  Osun                           _   0.95
_(ee)  Oyo                                0.00
L(ffl  Plateau                           0.00
(gg)  Rivers                             0.95
(hh)  Sokoto                             0.95
(ii)  Taraba                             0.95
.fliL..  Yobe                            0.00
(kk)  Zamfara                            0.95
- 50 -



Expenditure Category            Amount in          Financing percentage
2. GOODS                                               100% foreign expenditures
80% local expenditures
FMOH                                1.80
(b)  Abia                                0.34
(c)   Adamawa                             1.44
(d)  Akwa Ibom                           0.34
(e)   Anambra                            1.44
(fl   Baleysa                             1.44
(g)  lBauchi                             0.34
(h)   Benue                              0.34
Borno                               1.44
t)    Cross Rivers                       0.34
(k)   Delta                               1.44
(I)   Ebonyi                              1.44
(m)   Edo                                0.34
(n)   Ekiti                               1.44
_(2)  Enugu                               1.44
(P)   FCT                                 1.44
(q)   Gombe                              0.34
(r)  Imo                                 0.34
(s)   Jigawa                             0.34
(    Kaduna                            0.34
lKatsina                            0.34
(v)  _Kebbi                               1.44
(w)   Kooo                               1.44
(x)   Kwara                               1.44
y_ Lagos _                                0.34
(z)   Nassarawa                          0. 34
(aa) 5Niger                              0.34
(bb) Ogun                                0.34
_(cc)_ Ondo               X1.44 
_(dd) Osun                                1.44
(ee) Oyo                                 0.34
(ff)  Plateau                            0.34
(aa)  Rivers                              1.44
(Lhh  Sokoto                              1.44
(i) Taraba            _1.44
(i) Yobe                               0.34
1(kk) IZamfara                            1.44
-51 -



Expenditure Category           USSmillion        Financing percentage
3. TRAINING                                          80%
(a)  FMOH                               1.80
b)   Abia                               0.61
(c)  Adamawa                            1.24
(d)  Akwa Ibom                          0.61
(e)  Anambra                            1.24
(f   Baleysa                            1.24
(g)  Bauchi                             0.61
_(h    Benue                            0.61
(i)  Bomo                               1.24
0)   Cross Rivers                       0.61
(k)  Delta                              1.24
( )  Ebonyi                             1.24
(m)  Edo                                0.61
(n)  Ekiti                              1.24
()  Enugu                              1.24
(p)  FCT                                1.24
(g)  Gombe                              0.61
(r)  mIo                                0.61
(s)  Jigawa                             0.61
(t)  Kaduna                             0.61         _
(u)  Katsina                            0.61
Kebbi                              1.24
(w)  Kogi                               1.24        .
(x)  Kwara                              1.24                 _
(y)  Lagos                              0.61
(z)  Nassarawa                          0.61
(aa)  Niger                             0.61
(bb) Ogun                               0.61
(cc)  Ondo                              1.24
(dd) Osun                               1.24
(ee) Oyo                                0.61
(ff)  Plateau                           0.61
(gg) Rivers                             1.24
(hh) Sokoto                             1.24
_ii)  Taraba                            1.24
(i)  Yobe                               0.61
(kk)  Zamfara                           1.24
- 52 -



Expenditure Category     |     Amount in         Financing percentage
4. CONSULTANT SERVICES          _________80%
a)   FMOH                              2.70
,)  Abia                               0.34
(c)  Adamawa                            0.65
(d)  Akwa Ibom                          0.34
(e)  Anambra                            0.65
(f)  Baleysa                            0.65
(g)  Bauchi                             0.34
(h)  Benue                              0.34
Borno                             0.65
lCross Rivers                      0.34
(k)  Delta                              0.65
(I)  Ebonyi                             0.65
(m)  Edo                                0.34
(n)  Ekiti                              0.65
(o)  Enugu                              0.65
(P)  FCT                                0.65
(q)  Gombe                              0.34
(r)  lmo                                0.34
(s)  Jigawa                             0.34
(t)  Kaduna                             0.34         _
(u)  Katsina                            0.34
(v)  Kebbi                              0.65
(w)  Kogi                               0.65
(x)  Kwara                              0.65
(    Lagos                              0.34
(z)  Nassarawa                          0.34
(aa)  Niger                             0.34
(bb) Ogun                               0.34
(cc)  Ondo                              0.65
(dd) Osun                               0.65
(ee) Oyo                                0.34
(ffl  Plateau                           0.34
(gg) Rivers                             0.65
(hh) Sokoto                             0.65
Taraba                             0.65
Yobe                               0.34
(kk) Zamfara                            0.65
- 53 -



Amount in
Expenditure Category            US$million        Financing percentage
5. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                        80%
(a)   FMOH                               0.90
(b)  Abia                                0.07
(c)  Adamawa                             0.23             .-
_(d   Akwa Ibom                          0.07
(e)  Anambra                             0.23
ff)  Baleysa                             0.23
(g)   Bauchi                             0.07
(h)   Benue                              0.07
(i)   Borno                              0.23
iL()  Cross Rivers                       0.07
(k)   Delta                              0.23
(I)   Ebonyi                             0.23
(m)   Edo                                0.07
(n)   Ekiti                              0.23
(o)   Enugu                              0.23
(P)   FCT                                0.23
(q)  Gombe                               0.07
(r)   Imo                                0.07
(s)  Jigawa                              0.07
(t)  Kaduna                              0.07
()   Katsina                             0.07
(v)  Kebbi                               0.23
(w)  Kogi                                0.23
(x)  Kwara                               0.23
(Y)  Lagos                               0.07
(z)   Nassarawa                          0.07
(aa)  Niger                              0.07
(bb) Ogun                                0.07
(cc)  Ondo                               0.23
(dd) Osun                                0.23
(ee) Oyo                                 0.07
(ff)  Plateau                            0.07
(gg) Rivers                              0.23
(hh) Sokoto                              0.23
(ii)  Taraba                             0.23
(ii)  Yobe                               0.07
(kk)  Zamfara                            0.23
6. PPF Refinancing                       1.60         100%
7. Unallocated                           14.71
-54 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
19.   All application to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented,
except for: (i) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 each or
less for goods, consulting firms, civil works and (ii) US$50,000 or less for individual
consultants, training and operating expenditures which may be claimed on the basis of
certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures
claimed against SOEs will be retained by FMOH and will be available for review when
requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements will be
subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined
in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
20.   To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services,
the flow-of-funds mechanism has been designed with the following guiding principles: (a)
states have control of their funds; (b) bottlenecks in the transfer of funds are minimized;
and (c) acceptable transparency and accountability. There will be nineteen Special
Accounts, one for the Federal level and one for each pair of States. The flow of funds is
detailed in the Financial Management Arrangements section below. To the extent possible,
all of IDA's share of expenditures will be paid through the special accounts. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, all expenditures of less than US$1,000,000 will be made
through the Special Account.
21.   The Special Accounts will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal
Applications on a quarterly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other
documents as may be required.
- 55 -



FINANCLkL MANAGEMENT
A.    GENERAL
Objectives of the Project Financial Management (FM) Systems
1.    The objective of the FM systems is to support the implementing units in deploying project
resources to produce the required outputs and with attention to economy, efficiency and
effectiveness. Specifically, the FM systems will be capable of producing timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information that will enable the NPCU and PMUs to plan,
coordinate, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives, as well as ensuring that funds provided will be used for the purposes intended.
Implementing Entities
2.    The FMOH will have responsibility for the overall coordination of the project. This
responsibility will be delegated to the National Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU) headed by the
Director of Planning, FMOH. Also, the NPCU will be responsible for implementing the third
component of the project. At the State level, the responsibility for project implementation will be
delegated to a Project Management Unit (PMU), which has been established by the State Ministry
of Health (SMOH).
3.     Within the NPCU and each PMU, a Project Accounting Section (PAS) will be
established. The PAS will be headed by a professionally qualified Project Accountant and
supported by appropriately qualified staff. All accounts personnel will be given training, as
appropriate, in Bank procedures, computer applications and soft skills. The PAS at NPCU, i.e.
PAS/NPCU, will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the credit at the Federal level
and for consolidating the project budgets and reports, and forwarding them to IDA. The PAS in
each State PMU, i.e. PAS/PMU, will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the credit
at the state level. Specifically, it will be responsible for preparing budgets, monthly reports,
quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs), annual financial Statements and progress reports,
and forwarding them to NPCU. The PAS/NPCU will be responsible for consolidating the
quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual financial Statements, and forwarding the reports
and statements to IDA.
B.    RISK ANALYSIS
Inherent Risks
4.    The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Nigeria concluded that the
risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds is high, and therefore the Bank needs to build explicit
risk minimization actions into all its Nigerian operations while the Government makes necessary
efforts to improve financial accountability along the lines outlined in the report. As the CFAA
recommendations on financial accountability reforms have not been implemented, the Country
- 56 -



Risk is assessed as high.
Control Risks
5.    The overall project risk from a financial management perspective is considered substantial.
This will be reduced if: (a) the weakness described in paragraph 7 below is satisfactorily
addressed; (b) the financial management action plan described below are implemented, and (c) the
conditions for credit effectiveness outlined in section G are met.
Strength and Weakness
6.    Strength: The FMOH, which will have overall responsibility for coordinating the project,
have played similar roles under World Bank assisted projects in the past. Thus, FMOH is familiar
with World Bank procedures. There is no audit report outstanding in the sector.
7.     Weakness: The government ministries that are responsible for implementing the project
have weak financial management capacity. This is further compounded by the dearth of
professionally qualified accountants in the public sector. To address the weakness, a FM system
will be developed by effectiveness for each implementing unit in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan discussed below.
C.     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Financial Procedures Manual (FPM)
8.    The NPCU will hire a Financial Management Consultant (FMC) to develop a FPM. The
manual will be adopted by all implementing agencies of the project. The FPM will include, inter
alia: institutional arrangements; chart of accounts; basis of accounting adopted; planning and
budgeting, including cash-flow management; procurement procedures for goods, works and
services; disbursements; banking activities; staff, wages and salaries; fixed assets register; financial
reporting, auditing; legal covenants; and records management.
Funds Flow and Banking Arrangements
9.    The overall project funding will consist of IDA Credit and Counterpart Funds. IDA will
disburse the credit through nineteen special accounts (SA), i.e. one SA for a pair of States and
one for FMOH. NPCU/FMOH will maintain SA in US Dollars to which the initial deposit and
replenishments from IDA will be lodged. Similarly each pair of States will jointly maintain SA in
US Dollars to which the initial deposit and replenishments from IDA will be lodged - the SA will
be domiciled in the State designated in the DCA.
10.   Additionally, the States and NPCU will each maintain the following accounts:
(i)   A Current Account in Naira with bank X to which Counterpart Funds will be
deposited.
(ii)  A Current Account in Naira with bank X to which draw-downs from the SA will
- 57 -



be credited once or twice per month in respect of incurred eligible expenditures. Following
the immediate payments in respect of those eligible expenditures, the balance on this
account should be zero.
Funds Flow Diagram (States)
Sources of Funds                IDA                              nt Budget
Bank Accounts
SA ($) for a Pair of States
State Project Naira A/C             Counterpart Funds A/c
Eligible project
Application of Funds                       expenditures
11.   Also, the NPCU and PMUs will each maintain an IDA Ledger Loan Account
(Washington) in US Dollars/Naira/SDR to keep track of draw downs from IDA credit. The
account will show (a) deposits made into Bank X by IDA, (b) direct payments by IDA, and (c)
opening and closing balances.
12.   All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank Statements on a monthly basis by the
PAS/PMU and PAS/NPCU. A copy of each bank reconciliation Statement together with a copy
of the relevant bank Statement of the States will be sent monthly to the PAINPCU for review.
PAS/NPCU will also reconcile the NPCU's bank accounts with the bank Statements on a monthly
basis. The PA/NPCU will independently review the reconciliation Statements, which will be
prepared by an accounting staff in the NPCU. Identified differences will be expeditiously
investigated by or before the end ofthe following month, or before the next withdrawal
applications' submission, whichever comes first.
13.   The NPCU and the PMUs will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the World
Bank consolidated applications for withdrawal, as appropriate. Appropriate procedures and
controls, which will be documented in the FPM, will be instituted to ensure disbursements and
flow of funds are carried out in an efficient and effective manner.
14.   The NPCU will maintain a cumulative record of draw-downs from the Credit that will be
reconciled monthly with the Disbursement Summary provided by the Bank. They will also keep a
record of all revenue sources and ensure receipt of counterpart funds.
- 58 -



15.   Detailed banking arrangements, including control procedures over all bank transactions
(e.g. check signatories, transfers, etc.), will be documented in the FPM.
Planning and Budgeting
16.   Cash Budget preparation will follow the Federal Government and participating States'
procedures. Additionally, financial projections or forecasts for the life of the project (analyzed by
year) will be prepared. On an annual basis, the Project Accountant in each PMU, i.e. PA/PMU, (in
consultation with other key members of the PMU) will prepare the cash budget for the coming
period based on the work program. The cash budget should include the figures for the year,
analyzed by quarter. The cash budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed specifications for
project activities, schedules (including procurement plan), and expenditure on project activities
scheduled respectively for the quarter. Each PA/PMU will submit to the Project Accountant at
NPCU (PA/NPCU) a copy of the State's cash budget for consolidation. The PA/NPCU will
prepare the cash budget for the FMOH component and the consolidated cash budget for the
project. The PA/NPCU will send to the Bank at least two months before the beginning of the
project fiscal year a copy of the consolidated annual cash budget.
17.   Detailed procedures for planning and budgeting will be documented in the FPM.
Fixed Assets and Contracts Registers
18.   At the NPCU and each PMU, a Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated
and checked. A Contracts Register will also be maintained in respect of all contracts with
consultants and suppliers. The NPCU and each PMU will prepare Contract Status Reports
quarterly. Control procedures over fixed assets and contracts with consultants and
suppliers/vendors for States and Federal levels will be documented in the Financial Procedures
Manual.
Information Systems
19.   On behalf of the NPCU, the FMC mentioned in paragraph 8 will, among other things,
select and install a computerized accounting package or a spreadsheet template to be used by all
PMUs, and train staff in the use of the software in compliance with the FPM.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring
20.   Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared (as outlined in paragraphs 21, 22,
23, 24 and 25) for the purpose of monitoring project implementation. The reports will be
submitted to the National Project Steering Committee (NPSC) and IDA. In compliance with
government reporting requirements, Monthly Returns will be made to the Federal and State
Accountants General, for incorporation in the Government's accounts, as described in the FPM.
21.   Monthly: On a monthly basis, each PAS/PMU will prepare and submit to the NPCU the
following reports:
-59 -



A Bank Reconciliation Statement for each bank account;
Monthly Statement of cash position for project funds from all sources, taking into
consideration significant reconciling items;
A monthly Statement of expenditure classified by project components,
disbursement categories, and comparison with budgets, or a variance analysis; and
Statement of Sources and Uses offunds (by Credit Category/Activity showing
IDA and Counterpart Funds separately);
The PAS/NPCU will also prepare all the aforementioned reports for the FMOH
component.
22.   Quarterly - States: The following reports will be prepared by the PMU of each
participating State on a quarterly basis and submitted to PAS/NPCU and IDA:
Financial Reports which include a Statement showing for the period and
cumulatively (project life or year to date) inflows by sources and outflows by main
expenditure classifications; beginning and ending cash balances of the project; and
supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. The reports will also
include cash forecast for the next two quarters.
Physical Progress Reports which include narrative information and output
indicators (agreed during project preparation) linking financial information with physical
progress, and highlight issues that require attention.
Procurement Reports, which provide information on the procurement of goods,
work, and related services, and the selection of consultants, and on compliance with
agreed procurement methods. The reports will compare procurement performance against
the plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently updated, and highlight key procurement
issues such as staffing and building borrower capacity.
*      SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount.
The PAS/NPCU will also prepare all the aforementioned reports for the FMOH
component and forward a copy to IDA.
23.   Quarterly - Consolidated: Following receipt of quarterly reports from the States, the
following reports will be prepared by the PA/NPCU on a quarterly basis and submitted to NPSC
and IDA.
Consolidated Financial Reports which include a Statement showing for the period
and cumulatively (project life or year to date), inflows by sources and outflows by main
expenditure classifications; beginning and ending cash balances of the project; and
supporting  schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. The reports will also
include cash forecast for the next two quarters.
Consolidated Physical Progress Reports which include narrative information and
output indicators (agreed during project preparation) linking financial information with
-60 -



physical progress, and highlight issues that require attention.
Consolidated Procurement Reports, which provide information on the
procurement of goods, work, and related services, and the selection of consultants, and on
compliance with agreed procurement methods. The reports will compare procurement
performance against the plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently updated, and
highlight key procurement issues such as staffing and building borrower capacity.
24.   Annually - States: The annual project financial Statements, which will be prepared by
the PMU of each State, will include the following.
*     A Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by Credit Category/by Activity
showing IDA and Counterpart Funds separately);
*     A Statement of Cash Position for Project Funds from all sources;
*     Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances shown on the Statement of Sources and Uses of
funds
*     SOE Withdrawal Schedules listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount.
*     Notes to the Financial Statements.
The PAS/NPCU will also prepare all the aforementioned reports for the FMOH
component.
25.   Annually - Consolidated: The annual project financial Statements, which will be
prepared by the PAS/NPCU, will include the following.
A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by Credit
Category/by Activity showing IDA and Counterpart Funds separately);
A Consolidated Statement of Cash Position for Project Funds from all sources;
Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances shown on the Consolidated Statement of Sources
and Uses of funds
SOE Withdrawal Schedules listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount.
Notes to the Financial Statements
26.   Indicative formats for the reports are outlined in two Bank publications: (a) FMR
Guidelines - quarterly FMRs, and (b) Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(FARAH) - monthly and annual reports.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
27.   IDA and related Counterpart Funds will be accounted for by the Project on a cash basis.
This will be augmented with appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to
safeguard assets. Also, accounting records will be maintained in dual currencies (i.e. Naira and $).
- 61 -



28.   The Chart of Accounts will facilitate the preparation of relevant monthly, quarterly and
annual financial Statements, including information on the following:
*     Total project expenditures
*     Total financial contribution from each financier
*     Total expenditure on each project componentlactivity, and
Analysis of that total expenditure into civil works, various categories of goods,
trainingconsultants and other procurement and disbursement categories
29.   Annual financial Statements will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IASs).
30.   All accounting and control procedures will be documented in the FPM, a living document
that will be regularly updated by the Project Accountants.
Internal Audit
31.   Project activities, records and accounts will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit
Departments (IADs) of the FMOH and SMOH.
32.   The internal auditor of each PMU will report to the project manager at the PMU, and be
responsible for evaluating the reliability of the accounting systems, data, and financial reports.
The unit will carry out periodic reviews of project activities; ensure effectiveness of financial and
accounting policies and procedures, as well as compliance with internal control mechanisms;
review SOEs; physically verify purchases; and carry out other functions as Stated in the TORs.
External Audit
33.   The IDA Agreement will require the submission of Consolidated Audited Project Financial
Statements for the project to IDA within six months after year-end. Samples of audit reports are
included in Annex I, Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) of
the World Bank.
34.   A relevantly qualified external auditor will be appointed by FMOH for the entire project
on TORs acceptable to IDA. The TOR will cover both financial and technical audits.
35.   Besides expressing an opinion on the Consolidated Audited Project Financial Statements
in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), the auditor will be required to
include a separate opinion paragraph on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures made under
the SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan
disbursements. Regarding each Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an
opinion on the degree of compliance with IDA procedures and the balance at the year-end for
each individual special account.
- 62 -



36.    In addition to the audit report, the external auditors will be expected to prepare a
Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements in accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in
the IDA agreement.
D.     NEXT STEPS
37.    The following activities should be completed on or before Credit Effectiveness, and with
target dates as agreed with the Bank.
ACTION                                                                       RESPONSIBILITY
Finalize arrangements for Counterpart Funding.                               FMOH, States and IDA
Hire FMC to: (a) prepare the FPM; (b)advise on the selection/installation of the computerized  FMOH
FMS; and (c) train staff in the operation of the system.
FPM adopted and FMS installed                                                FMOH and States
Agreement with FMOF to enable IDA channel the credit directly to the 18 State SAs  IDA and FMOF
Agreement on the pairs of States for joint SAs                               States/IDA
Sign MOU on the operation ofjoint SAs                                        States/IDA
Project Accountants and Internal Auditors together with support staff appointed for NPCU and  FMOH and States
PMUs.
Dollar and Naira Counterpart Fund Accounts opened by the FMOH and the States. IDA  FMOH and States
advised of authorized bank signatories/specimen signatures.
Initial capacity building in Bank procedures and computer applications completed.  FMOH & IDA
External auditors appointed for the project on approved TORs.                FMOH
Supervision Plan
38.    Supervision activities will include: review of quarterly FMRs; review of annual audited
financial Statements and management letter as well as timely follow up of issues arising; annual
SOE review; and participation in project supervision missions as appropriate. The Financial
Management Specialist at the World Bank Country Office have a key role to play in monitoring
the timely implementation of the financial management action plan.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     10                          26
First Bank mission (identification)            01/23/2000                  01/23/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    06/30/2000                   01/21/2002
Negotiations                                   08/15/2000                   04/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/29/2000                   07/01/2002
Prepared by:
Federal Ministry of Health and the State Ministries of Health
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$1.6 million was approved on August 8,
2000. Technical assistance was provided by WHO, UNICEF and other development partners.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Francois Decaillet                Task Team Leader (since January 2002)
Anne U. Okigbo                    Deputy Team Leader, Nigeria Country Office
Miriam Schneidman                 Senior Public Health Specialist
William Marke                     Lead Financial Management Specialist
Bayo Awosemusi                    Procurement Specialist, Nigeria Country Office
Karen Alexandra Hudes             Senior Counsel
Elizabeth M. Morris-Hughes        Consultant
Daniele Jaekel                    Operations Analyst
Jerker Liljestrand                Lead Health Specialist
Joyce Msuya                       Health Specialist
Lawrence Barat                    Technical Specialist
Mariam Claeson                    Lead Public Health Specialist
Anthony Martin Hegarty            Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Muraino Olaseni Ogunsanya         Financial Management Specialist, Nigeria Country Office
Myrina D. McCullough              Operations Analyst
Rogati Anael Kayani               Sr. Procurement Specialist
Brigitte Duces                    Lead Education Specialist
Edward Olowo-Okere                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Howard Barnum                     Consultant (Economic analysis)
Esther Susuyu Ali                 Consultant (Social assessment)
Ramesh Govindaraj                 Consultant (Pharmaceuticals)
Jerome Chevallier                 Consultant (Public sector management)
- 64 -



Sundararajan Gopalan             Senior Population, Health and Nutrition Specialist
Christy Hanson                   Consultant (Tuberculosis Specialist)
Moussoukoro Soukoule            Language Program Assistant
Abiodun Elufioye                Team Assistant, Nigeria Country Office
Adenike Mustafa                  Financial Management Specialist
Quality Assurance Arrangements:
A Quality Enhancement Review was organized in February 2001 to provide feedback to the
team on the design of the operation. Panel members included Messrs./Mmes. Dan Ritchie
(Chair), Linda Lacey (Professor, University of North Carolina), Ian Morris (Senior Human
Resources Specialist, World Bank), Fadia Saadah (Special Assistant to Regional VP, World
Bank) and Chris Walker (Lead Specialist, HNP Quality, World Bank).
Peer Reviewers have included: Philip Gowers (Principal Health Specialist), Abdo Yazbeck
(Senior Health Economist), and David Peters (Senior Health Specialist).
- 65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
A. Project Implementation Plan
Department of Planning, Research, and Statistics, Federal Ministry of Health, Abuja. August 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
IDA: Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, February, 2000
IDA and Development Partners: Joint Aide Memoire, October, 2000
IDA Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, February 2001
Project Concept Document
Social Assessment Report
Report of Financial Management Capacity Assessments
Report of Procurement Capacity Assessments
C. Other
Project concept papers by each State Ministry of Health
Institutional Assessment by DFID Consultant
Development Policy Letter dated April 19, 2001
*Including electronic files
-66-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - 11
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev d
P072018        2002 Nigeria:Transmission Development Project          0.00     100.00                           0.00      98.78      3.00       0.00
P070291        2002 HIVIAIDS Response Project                         0.00      90.30                           0.00      89.42      6.66       0.00
P070293        2001 NG PRIVATiZATION SUPPORT PROJECT                  0.00     114.29                           0.00     110.79      4.45       0.00
P069086        2001 Community Based Poverty Reduction                 0.00      60.00                           0.00      54.05      2.89       0.00
P066571        2000 SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                  0.00      55.00                           0.00      48.35     44.25       0.00
P065301        2000 ECON.MGMT.CAP.BLDG.                               0.00      20.00                           0.00      12.51      0.30       0.00
P064008        2000 SMALL TOWNS WATER                                 0.00       5.00                           0.00       3.83     -0.74       0.00
Total:        0.00     444.59                           0.00      417.73     60.81       0.00
- 67 -



NIGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AEF Ansbby                   0.10   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/98            AEF Bailey Bridg             0.45   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Courdeau                 0.13   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ekesons                  0.11   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Global Fabri             0.32   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hercules                 1.30   0.00     0.00   0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hygeia                   0.30   0.19     0.00   0.00    0.30    0.19    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Mid-East                 0.00   0.00     0.12   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00
1997               AEF Moorhouse                1.13   0.00     0.00   0.00    1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Oha Motors               0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Radmed                   0.25   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               AEF SafetyCenter             0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Telipoint                0.08   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Vinfesen                 1.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Abuja Intl                   1.75   0.71     0.00   0.00    1.75    0.71    0.00    0.00
1964/66/89         Arewa Textiles               0.00   0.12     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2000               CAPE FUND                    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00
2000               Citibank (Nig)              40.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Delta Contractor            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Diamond Bank                15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   15.00   0.00    5.00    0.00
2000               FSB                          4.50    0.00   18.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    18.00   0.00
1992               FSDH                         0.00    0.86    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00
2000               GTB                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              IBTC                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981/85/88         Ikeja Hotel                  0.00   0.25     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00
1993               Tourist Co Nir               0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      122.82    9.63   23.12    0.00   47.82    5.88   23.12    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              AEF SafetyCenter                0.00      0.00     0.08     0.00
2001              Citibank/IFC JV                30.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001              FCMB                           10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001              Novotel Hotel                   2.50      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001              UBA                            30.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      72.50      0.00     0.08     0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGERIA: Health Systems Development Project - II
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan     Low-
Nigeria    Africa  Income      Development dlamond-
2000
Population, mid-vear (millions)                   126.9       659    2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  260       480      420
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions)                   32.7       313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                      2.7       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                     2.7       2.6      2.4      GNI                           Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                          capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             44        34       32
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                     47        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             83        92       77
Child malnutrition ({ of children under 5)           ..         .        ..         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  57       55       76
Illiteracv (% of population ape 15+)                 36        38       38
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age population)  98      78       96                 Niga
Male                                              109        85      102             -    Low-income group
Female                                             87        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                         64.2    28.5      34.8     41.1
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                ..    14.7      23.4      22.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP          29.4    43.4      36.9      52.3                   Trade
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                 31.4    29.4      19.1      34.0
Gross national savinas/GDP                 26.1    19.4      13.9      27.6
Current account balancelGDP                 6.7     5.4      -9.5       4.9     omestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       0.8     7.5       5.7       5.0    s
Total debt/GDP                             13.9    117.5     84.4      77.7     saig
Total debt service/exports                  4.1    23.3      31.5      15.5
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..      ..      82.1
Present value of debtexports                 ..      ..     217.2
Indebtedness
19d0-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual orowth)
GDP                                1.6      2.4     1.1       3.8       3.1                 NigGr7a
GDP per capita                    -1.4     -0.4    -1.4       1.3       0.8                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services     -0.3      4.2   -12.4      -1.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                     ro
Agriculture                                20.6    32.7      36.6      29.5
Industrv                                   45.6    41.4      35.2      46.0    4
Manufacturing                             8.4      5.5       4.9      4.1     20+.                  #
Services                                   33.8    25.9      28.2      24.6     0
Private consumption                        56.5    55.5      67.4      45.4   -20                97   9E   a9    as
General government consumption             12.1    15.1      13.4      20.5             -     GDI    - e   GDP
Imports of goods and services              19.2    28.8      41.1      41.0
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 3.3     3.5       5.2       5.2    20-
Industrv                                   -1.1     1.0      -2.5       6.7  lo.
Manufacturing                             0.7      1.2       2.1      4.9
Services                                    3.7     2.8       2.3      -0.3                 9
Private consumption                        -2.6    -3.7       1.5     -18.0
General government consumntion             -3.5     5.6      47.7      86.2   -20 -
Gross domestic investment                  -8.5     8.3      42.1      39.7           -EXPons        -0Imporrs
Imports of goods and services             -13.6     4.8      14.9      16.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 69 -



Nigeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             10.0     7.4       6.6      6.9     60
Implicit GDP deflator                      12.4      7.2      12.3     25.4     40
Govemment finance                                                                2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                               ..    21.5      30.7     46.1    -20     93    96    97    99    99    00
Current budget balance                      13.6     3.6      11.1     24.0            -    GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                       ..      ..      -7.5      2.2
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                       25,956  13,914    11,927   20,441     25.000
Fuel                                    24.942   13.508    11.393   19.550    20.000
Liquefied natural cas                       ..       ..      322      623
Manufactures                                ..      70        27       30     15,000              R
Total imports (cif)                       19.999   7,827    11.658   13.696     10,000              I
Food                                     3.161     644      1,516    1,758
Fuel and energy                            340      54       152      178      so         *0
Capital goods                                ..      ..        ..       ..        0
94   95   96   97  95   99  00
Exportorice index (1995=100)                206      138        94      160
Import orice index (1995=100)                66       84        93       95                U Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   309      164       101      169
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            27,006   14.083    12,871   21,409     15-
Imports of ooods and services             17.648   9.341    14.339   16,789     10-.
Resource balance                           9.358   4.742     -1.468   4.620
Net income                                -4,472  -3,288     -3,467   -4,341
Net current transfers                      -576       74     1.645    1,724     0o-1 6              9110
Current account balance                   4.310    1.527     -3.290   2,003                   - 
Financing items (net)                       235      571     1,624     1,956   l10 -
Changes in net reserves                   -4,545  -2,098     1,666    -3.959   s15
Memo:
Reserves including nold (US$ millions)    10.266   3.863     5.441    9.400
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)             0.8     9.2      92.3    101.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandina and disbursed       8.921  33,441    29.358   31.935
IBRD                                      517    3.284     1.989    1.625                        A: 1,625
IDA                                        38       36       624      644            G: 6e516         s: 644
Total debt service                         1,151   3.334     4,140     3,365                          _    D 3,019
IBRD                                       69      484       443      376                            -9.O;
IDA                                         1        1         7        9
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             3      125         0        0
Official creditors                         77     -132      -275     -291           5,599
Private creditors                       1,434     -120      -146     -199
Foreign direct investment                   ..     602     1,473     1,374                    -E: 14.532
Portfolio equity                            0        0         2        0
World Bank program
Commitments                               286      688         0      140     A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              63      391       119       86    |B-IDA     D- Other multilateral  F. Private
Principal repayments                       25      242       307      277      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Netflows                                   38      149      -189     -191
Interest pavments                          45      243       142      108
Net transfers                              -7      -94      -331     -299
AFTM4                                                                                                             9/7/01
- 70 -



Additional
Annex 11
Health Sector Situation
Background With a population of close to 127 million (2000), Nigeria is the largest
country in Africa. By 2025, its population is expected to reach close to 200 million. It is widely
recognized that the country has a tremendous potential to become an economic giant in Africa
because of its impressive human capital, rich natural resources, and undeveloped economic
capacity. Nevertheless, decades of military regimes, financial mismanagement, and the downside
of the oil boom have triggered a crisis situation in the social sectors, which has plummeted Nigeria
among the 13 poorest countries in the world in terms of the UNDP Human Development Index.
Poverty is widespread and rising. Recent estimates from the Federal Office of Statistics
indicate that the proportion of households living below the poverty line rose steeply nationwide
from 27 percent in 1980 to close to 66 percent by 1996. While poverty has tended to be a rural
phenomenon, urban areas have also been affected, with incidence rates climbing from 17 percent
to about 58 percent since the early 1980s. With a GNP per capita of only US$300 (1998), the
average Nigerian, is trying to make ends meet on less than one dollar per day.
The main health sector issues can be summarized as follows: (a) poor health outcomes and
large disparities between the poor and non-poor; (b) inadequate quality of government health
services, which stems from, inter alia, lack of drugs, limited human resources and managerial
capabilities; (c) lack of an enabling environment to allow private sector providers to build
partnerships with the public sector; (d) low levels ofpublic funding combined with shortcomings
in the way resources are allocated, spent and managed; and (e) poor delineation of roles and
responsibilities within the three tiers of government with regard to the provision and financing of
health care.
Poor Health Outcomes During the past two decades of military regimes, health
outcomes have generally stagnated or deteriorated. This reflects, inter alia, poor quality and
inefficiencies in the provision of public sector health services, lack of appropriate targeting
strategies for reaching under-served populations, and the poor linkages between economic growth
and poverty reduction (i.e. lack of pro-poor policies). The resurgence in malaria combined with
the HIV/AIDS/TB co-epidemic now runs the risk of further deterioration in health outcomes.
(i) Since the early 80s Nigeria has experienced a much slower rate of decline in infant
mortality, in comparison to countries at similar income levels. As can be seen from the figure
below, Ghana, which started at a slighter lower mortality level than Nigeria in 1982 was able to
reduce the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) to 55 while Nigeria's rate still hovers over 80. Patterns of
mortality by mother's education and by access to medical maternity care illustrate large
differentials, emphasizing the importance of expanding access to antenatal and delivery care. For
example, infants of women who did not have access to antenatal or delivery care were twice as
likely to die during their first year than their counterparts who did benefit from these services.
The mortality patterns also highlight the importance of encouraging women to avoid high risk
fertility behavior (i.e. early childbearing, short birth intervals, high parity), both to improve child
and maternal health outcomes. For example, children of women who exhibited all high risk
- 71 -



behaviors were 3.6 more likely to die during their first year of life.
Trends in Infant Mortality, Selective Years
140
120   _UGANDA
100         Y               INDIA
80.-
60  ~~~~~~ ~         NIGERIA
______  ~     GHANA
40       --  _ _ _ -
-  ____     -KENWA
20   - - - - _ _ - _ _
0
1982 1987 1992 1997
Year
(ii) Nigeria appears to have experienced a moderate decline infertility, but continues
to lag considerably behind the high performing countries. As can be seen from the figure
below, the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) dropped from 6.9 in 1982 to 5.3 in 1997, which
corresponds to an annual reduction in the population growth rate from 3.2 to 2.6 percent.
Patterns of fertility suggest large urban rural and intra regional differentials, with the Northeast
and Northwest regions recording the highest fertility rates. It is probable that most of the decline
is attributable to a shift towards a late pattern of childbearing rather than to improvements in
access to family planning services. The 1999 DHS found that the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
(CPR) was only 15 percent (all methods) and less than one-quarter of currently married non-users
intended to use family planning in the future.
Trends In the TFR, Selective Years
9.00
8.00
7.00                         -- _  -.| GHANA
6.00 --U n-                       NIGERIA
5.00
4.00             .               BENIN
3.00  -..x- UGANDA
2.00   -        _             31tKENYA
1.00-
0.00
1982  1987  1992  1997
Year
(ii) Nigeria suffers from large inequalities in coverage of basic services and in health and
nutrition outcomes between the poor and non-poor. As can be seen in the figure below, in
- 72 -



comparison to countries such as Kyrgyz Republic and Malawi, which have adopted effective
policies for expanding access to health care to everyone, Nigeria continues to suffer from large
inequalities, particularly with regard to access to safe deliveries. Only 9 percent of the poorest
women have access to a nurse or midwife at delivery and over 87 percent continue to deliver at
home, which implies that when complications are encountered many of these women are not
within easy reach of medical care. Immunization coverage rates also highlight large disparities
between the poor and non-poor, with less than 14 percent of the children from the poorest
families fully inmmunized, in comparison to about 58 percent in the richest households.
Ratio of Health Care Differentials
Between Richest and Poorest
4                     .      1 smmunzation
3 L        s                  belivery Care
2 -     31      r   *        entenatai care
o
Coverage gaps are reflected in large disparities in health and nutrition outcomes (figure
above), with the largest differentials in under five mortality and nutritional status. The major
causes of mortality and morbidity in children under five are diarrhea, respiratory infections,
malnutrition, vaccine-preventable diseases, and malaria. Children under five appear to be
particularly hard hit by malaria, with 75 percent of malaria deaths occurring in this age group.
Poorest          Richest        Poor/Rich
Ratio
Infant Mortality Rate          102.2           68.6            1.5
Under 5 Mortality Rate         239.6           119.8           2.0
Total Fertility Rate           6.6             4.7             1.4
Children Stunted (%)           48.5            32.1            1.5
Children Underweight (%        40.2            22.2            1.8
moderate)
Children Underweight (% severe)  16.4          4.9             3.3
- 73 -



Source: 1990 Demographic and Health Survey
Child mortality and malnutrition, which are good proxies for social welfare, are consistent
with the increasing trend in poverty since the early 80s. With the proportion of households falling
below the poverty line rising, Nigerians are having difficulties feeding their children and ensuring
their survival. The gravity of the situation is reflected in the fact that poverty has spread to all
socio-economic groups. For example, the DHS data show that while chronic malnutrition
(stunting) afflicts nearly half of the poorest children it also affects roughly a third of the children
from the richest households. By contrast, differentials in the proportion of children who are
severely underweight (combination of chronic and acute malnutrition) are even larger, highlighting
the vulnerability of poor households during periods of economic hardships.
(iv) As in other developing countries communicable diseases in Nigeria affect
disproportionately the poor, setting in place a downward spiral of illness and poverty.
Worldwide, 80 percent of the rich-poor gap in both mortality and DALY (Daily Adjusted Life
Years) loss is due to the disproportionate burden of communicable diseases on the poor. In
Nigeria, there are growing concerns with the rapidly rising HIV/AIDS and TB co-epidemic, the
resurgence in malaria, and continuing morbidity and mortality losses due to childhood
communicable diseases (e.g. measles, diarrhea, respiratory infections). While the government has
an essential role to play in the provision of these public goods, it currently reaches only a fraction
of those in need of care. For example, less than 12 percent of the estimated number of
tuberculosis cases are reported by the public health network. The WHO recommended control
strategy for tuberculosis, DOTS (directly-observed treatment, short course), is available in only
half of the states. Moreover, some of these services imply a heavy private sector involvement.
For example, it is estimated that 60-80 percent of malaria cases are managed outside public sector
facilities, which suggests a need to extend information, training and commodities beyond the
fonnal health system to improve malaria case detection and management. General improvements
in primary health services, coupled with the introduction of integrated approaches to planning,
training, supervision and surveillance, and with expansion of community outreach activities,
represent important elements for communicable disease control in Nigeria. Annex 12 includes a
more detailed situation analysis of communicable disease control in Nigeria and for priority areas
for action.
(v) Nigeria could be achieving better health outcomes at the same income and health
expenditure levels if resources were allocated and spent in a more efficient manner. For
example, in comparing Nigeria to countries at similar income levels, the country's record in
bringing the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) under control lags considerably behind (see figure
below). The MMIR for countries at similar economic levels is as follows: 58 in Tajikistan, 500 in
Madagascar, 550 in Uganda, and 650 in Kenya. By contrast, the MMR in Nigeria is estimated at
about 1100 per 100,000 live births, ranging from 339 in the South-West to 1716 in the
North-East. The excessively high maternal mortality levels are a reflection of the inadequate
access to obstetric care, poorly functioning referral system, socio-cultural barriers to health care,
and general systemic problems of the health care delivery system which are discussed in the next
section.
- 74 -



Global Trends in Maternal Mortality, 1997
1.600.
1.400
40
010      100     1,000   10,000   100.000
pe. ..pit. GNP, US$
Health Services: Provision, Organization and Financing
(i) There is a general consensus that the quality of government health services has
declined dramatically during military rule. Dcteriorated infrastructure and equipment, lack of
drugs, and low staff morale have led to a dramatic reduction in the utilization of health services.
After decades of devastating neglect, Nigerian officials see enormous needs for upgrading public
sector health facilities, which cater primnarily to the lower socio-econonmic groups. Beneficiaries
attach a particularly high value to the quality of care, which is generally not equated with
imnprovements of physical infrastructure but with access to drugs and availability of qualified
personnel. Greater attention to human resource issues will be essential to avoid the costly brain
drain which has plagued the public sector in recent years. As the recruitment, dismissal, and
remunerafion of personnel are heavily driven by rigid civil service regulations, local alternative
solutions must be found for encouraging and recognizing good performance.
(ii) In contrast to the general deterioration in the public sector Nigeria appears to
continue to benef t from a vibrant private sector. Private health services have grown rapidly
during the past two decades. There is a need to create an enabling enviromnent for private sector
providers and to build effective public/private partnerships. The public sector may wish to ensure
that certain basic services are provided but it does not necessarily need to provide those services.
At the same time, the government is committed to establishing appropriate regulatory mechanisms
and enforcement capabilities to ensure minimum standards of care among this heterogeneous
group of providers. The proposed operation would finance analytic work to get a better
understanding of the private sector and to identify options for collaboration.
(iii) Nigeria spends considerably less of public resources on health care than countries
at similar socio-economic levels. Moreover, there are large inefficiencies in the way public
resources are allocated, spent, and managed which contribute to the poor health outcomes.
Nigeria is estimated to spend less than US$5.0 per capita of public resources on health care.
Private expenditures are estimnated to represent over 70 percent of total health expenditures in
Nigeria, with household out of pocket expenditures accounting for the lions' share. These data
are derived from WHO national accounts for Nigeria, which are believed to be incomplete, and
must be interpreted accordingly. These expenditure patterns raise three inter-related issues:
- 75 -



H aVEwpxptdas Penxc d GOP, 1
Thd%id199s
umM--         --_
* The first set of issues deals with the fiscal transfer mechanism. State and local governments
are highly dependent on transfers from the Federal Government, which tend to fluctuate with
oscillations in petroleum revenues. Federal revenue constituted on average over 77 percent of
state government revenues and over 92 percent of local government revenues during 1993-97.
This implies that recurrent budgets are difficult to execute and investment projects may
periodically need to be abandoned during periods of economic downturn. Moreover, these
resources may not be equitably distributed between the three tiers of government, with
roughly 22 percent of total governmnent expenditures spent at the state (18 percent) and local
(4 percent) government levels during recent years. While these figures refer to 'overall'
expenditure shares, they are probably indicative of the division of resources in the health
sector.
* Second, there are serious problems of internal efficiency with personnel costs crowding out
other essential inputs. At the state and local government level, salaries absorb up to 90
percent of total expenditures with the bulk of non-salary expenditures funded through
internally-generated revenues at the health facility level. There are also concerns with low
allocative efficiency, with meager resources allocated to primary health care, which is
supposed to be the cornerstone of the Government's health policy.
* A third set of related issues deal with shortcomings in the management of resources.
Recurrent budgets are prepared in a incremental fashion over the previous year's allocations;
accounting, auditing and financial management practices are generally poorly developed; and a
proliferation of deductions at source has created conditions for expenditure mismanagement.
In this environment, state and local authorities have little control over the provision and
financing of health services.
(iv) The organizational structure of the Nigerian health care system suffers from poor
delineation of roles and responsibilities of the three tiers of the system. This has three key
dimensions.
* First, the legislative framework suffers from lack ofspecificity and ambiguities in the
- 76 -



definition of roles and responsibilities of the three tiers of Government, which has resulted in
some local Governments functioning as mere administrative extensions of state goverrunents.
Even when roles are clearly assigned, there are instances where some tiers of Government
take on responsibilities that are clearly not in their mandate, which results in duplication of
efforts and inadequate coordination. A case in point refers to the federal level parastatals
which provide some of the same functions which are the responsibility of the local
governments (e.g. primary health care). For example, in the case of immunization, the Federal
government sets policies but also implements some vertical programs. District Primary Health
Care Committees manage polio, yellow fever, measles and meningitis programs. Another
example of problems stemming from the lack of clarity in roles relates to services such as
maternal care, which require a well functioning referral system.
* Second, the fragmentation of roles and responsibilities amongst the tiers of Government has
also resulted in problems of ownership and accountability. State and local authorities are
responsible for service delivery but have no control over key decisions such as recruitment,
remuneration and dismissal of personnel. Local government authorities view the funds for the
salaries coming out of their pockets (through deductions at source from the federated
account) even though they have little or no control over staffing decisions.
a Third, in addition to lack of clarity over roles and responsibilities of different tiers of
government there are also concerns with the pace and scope of decentralization of
responsibilities and resources in light of variable capacity. As in many other countries, the
decentralization process in Nigeria has been politically triggered, to the extent that it has
responded to growing demands of ethnic minorities. As a result, over the past two decades
the number of states has virtually doubled and capacities and resource mobilization capabilities
are highly variable. For the health sector this implies a need for a clear roadmap as to how
decentralization will be pursued and how investments will be phased in at different levels.
Nigeria may wish to consider adopting an incremental approach whereby resources are
initially channeled to State Governments while simultaneously building capacity at local levels.
- 77 -



Additional
Annex 12
Supervision Arrangements
The project will require intensive implementation support, especially at the outset, as new
states come on board. It is planned to hold joint supervisions with the AfDB and the World Bank
teams twice a year. One supervision mission per year would focus on a review and discussion of
the Annual plan. This would be done in a workshop in one location, bringing all states together
and carrying out individual reviews with each state during the workshop. The second supervision
mission per year would consist of field visits to the state to review results and progress made. It
is planned to hold zonal visits (covering all 6 zones once per year), bringing all project states in
each of the zones together to review and discuss issues. The zonal location to be rotated between
states during the project.
The supervision team would consist, at a minimum of: (i) the WB task team leader; (ii) the
AfDB task team leader; (iii) a procurement specialist; (iv) a financial management specialist.; and
(v) technical specialists as needed.
This team would also be responsible for:
*   Reviewing implementation progress, assessing adherence to Bank procedures and
guidelines, and ensuring that the project management arrangements are adequate.
* Reviewing compliance with financial management, disbursement and procurement
procedures and guidelines.
*   Providing technical support on design and implementation of health programs and health
sector reform measures.
It is planned to engage two or three consultant firms with a contract for the duration of
the project, to assist with the quality control and monitoring. The contracts would be partly
financed from the World Bank project funds, partly from the AfDB. The following areas would
be supported by the firms:
*   Management of a monitoring program and advice/assistance in technical areas, including
environmental issues. The firm would be responsible for monitoring and maintaining the
performance indicators for the project, visit states regularly to identify problems and
issues, bring these issues to the attention of the Federal Government and the two Banks,
prepare and participate in the supervision missions, and provide feedback to the states on
their performance. The consultants, in their visits to the States, would be joined with
SMOH staff from other states to participate in these visits and to learn from each other.
*   Support and advice on financial management and on procurement. It is preferable to have
this with two separate firms, to reduce conflict of interests.
- 78 -



-1 4   ,       A ' 4   _   _ ,  r   v n6 '         8'                  1 0 '              1 2'                                  1 6 -      1 4 ,
-,  /.~ \                            N   i   G   E   R                                 *     cHA LD  This mop was produced by the
/                                                  -'/  '                                 Mop Design Un't of Thes, _  Wor'd Bock j   F v rl  ~  3  ~  '_  DrJmaturu s  -   -4 -';'n,e oda
.N    S     f *-. .,                                                                     I ri K         The boundaries, colors, denominations
Katsif  -ond ony other information shown on
r  ~ ~  ~  /          '~st'~..~                                                                                      this mop do not imply, on the part of
"'  a'"')  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,  I  __  I.-.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               .,~~~~~ ~ The World Bunk Group, any jodgment
-~   ~~     P                      - _( ERr1   '        ;ASN  -'  C   -       -\SP                                O      T            O
KATSINA                                                 on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sthe legal stotus.ofany territory, or
Bsr~~~~nt~~1<'  /'-  _  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         -*---                    , ~~~~~~  , ,  any endorsementer acceptanceendrseentor  of.tane o
A S,0G        cffi "'                                 /  YO 8          B ORckNo                  nd            12ies.
/       K   -     ,    , -  - - -  A>.g - -                  i',,r.-~j         Da    j _, ..  au .  ,  '(
i  .                                                     I Ei   ,,   ; i_plil_  L z |  >   J  1 1 -  /-  i(  -  RIER
}E * *\ - ~~~~~~~~~~Z A )4 F,1`  A- 
t~                                                                     -'_ -a_|oi|_/e1|-l- sLig--~ TT ONAIS8
' -t;.';ri,- .                                                                 l,--/ ;   . LLl.fITR  TO  LB U  AENIG E R IA
)                  g                         L'FoS-) <,        1> LEr' ._t, \G E  e     '-'' ~    HEALTH SYSTEMS
B E NIN        ......0o~                                                                              N          DEVELOPMENT
10                                                                    )0
/            Sr r  E R                           (                     I        '1'~ADAMAWA                PROJECT        11
. X s ! : r -.,I T I |   -STATE CAPITALS
3               /                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
.11 F4 I RL   -,  ,. -,                               ......-                 EXPRESSWAYS
3/.. ~  ~     ~      L 4* ,, s "          ,   .'.3,t.;o                                                          @bj 
K~~                                 ~~ \.:IB  '         ,'* iT ( /-l>l   i                NATONA CAPITAL_  
Lrr  ,~~~~~~~  / ~~~PRIMARY ROADS
-~~~~~~~  ,,--..,                                                 -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES  8-
.L i,i  I   I  fC.,,rl  . 1il  .  ,  l !ZONE BOUNDARIES
I        LLtjrrt:                                                 ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_   I      r                                                        -                                                                 ICAMEROON
J                        ;                                 14,                16'
_                                                                             | Il~~~~~,.  ..eit *Z   ,1  ;%  ,, ~,  ,   |IIE - M A L I5   r
I, I  '211         RORKINA    2 II' |
1'~~~~-           tI''~~~~~~tH  -  1 ~~~~FASO
8175  H  F.0  'B'  .1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ri*:41H  Fot~ T  '.r im  0    
.1                                                           - ' ., sR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-i  ,Im  iKr if  5S.  -
S               -       / ~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL
AFRICAN
%,ERCON ~REPUBLIC
(3. iI[  c     G L,In e ci                                          '   .    i''-
.5.                                                    I 11.1St I I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
51                 ''                                        E5rrst         '  ABON ~tCONGO



