                                           Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           Report No 44777-NG




                                        PROJECT PAPER

                                              ON A

                           PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                     INTHE AMOUNT OF

                  SDR 57.3 MILLION (US$90 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                              FEDERALREPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                              FORA

                SECOND HEALTHSYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                        September 8,2008




Human Development I11
Country Department AFCW2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bankauthorization.

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 31,2008)


 Currency Unit = Naira
        US$1 = Naira118
        US$1 = SDR0.6362

            FISCAL YEAR
    January 1  - December31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                    Vice President:     ObiageliKatryn Ezekwesili
                                   Country Director:   Onno Ruhl
                                    Sector Manager:    Lynne Sherburne-Benz
                                 Task Team Leader:     RameshGovindaraj




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                      ii


                               Project Paper Data Sheet
Date: September 8,2008                         Team Leader: RameshGovindaraj
Country: Nigeria                               Sector Manager: Lynne Sherburne-Benz
Project Name: Health Systems Dev. Proj I1      Country Director: Onno Ruhl
Project ID: P I10697                           Environmental Category: B


Borrower: FEDERALREPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
Responsibleagency: FEDERAL MINISTRYof HEALTHand PARTICIPATING
STATES
-
Revisedestimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
FY                 2009           2010             2011
Annual                10            50              30


Current closing date: May 31, 2009




Bank policies?


Revisedproject developmentobjectives/outcomes[If applicable]




-
Doesthe scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies? No

:3 Loan                        For Additional Financing
          [XI Credit    [ ] Grant
'or LoandCreditdGrants:
      Total Bank financing : US$90 million
      Proposedterms: Standard




                                            111
                                            ..I


  NIGERIA SECOND HEALTH SYSTEMSDEVELOPMENTPROJECTADDITIONAL FINANCING


                                                        Table of Contents


I .    INTRODUCTION                .....................................................................................................................       1

I1.    PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PERFORMANCE                                                          ..........................................................  2

111.   RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                   ................................................................   5

I V.   PROPOSEDCHANGES                       ...........................................................................................................       6

V .    CONSISTENCY WITH CPS AND AFRICAN ACTION PLAN                                                                  .......................................  10

VI .   APPRAISAL SUMMARY                        ......................................................................................................        10

VI1.   EXPECTED OUTCOMES                         .....................................................................................................        16

VI11.  BENEFITSAND RISKS                     .........................................................................................................        16

I X.   FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS                                          .........................................................................      17

SCHEDULE B  ..........................................................................................................................................        19

SCHEDULE C  .........................................................................................................................................         21

SCHEDULE D  .........................................................................................................................................         22




                                                                     iv


I.INTRODUCTION

 1.   This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide additional
 financing in the amount o f US$90 million to the Federal Republic o f Nigeria, Second Health
 Systems Development Project (HSDP 11) (P070290, Cr. 36530 LJNI). The Bank has been
 supporting the thirty-six states o f the Nigerian Federation through the HSDP I1 in improving
the maternal and child health (MCH) status in Nigeria, which i s amongst the poorest in Sub
 Saharan Africa.    The infant mortality rate o f 97 deaths/l000 live births in the year 2000
worsened to 100 deaths/l000 live births in2005, and child mortality was 201 per 1000in 2005
as against the MDG-4 targeted improvement to 30 deaths/l000 live births in 2015. Similarly,
the maternal mortality rate of 704/100,000 live births also declined to 800/100,000 live births
in 2004, as against the MDG-5 targeted improvement to 75/100,000 live births by 2015. A
significant number o f these deaths could be prevented through interventions at the primary
health care level. The continued weakness o f the health system and the resulting alarming
health outcomes pose the risk o fNigeria not achieving the health-related MDGsby 2015.

2.    The proposed additional credit would help finance the costs that accrued after the project
was restructured in2005 and implementation was accelerated and effectively scaled up. O f the
total proposed supplement o f US$90 million, US$SO million i s allocated to 22 States and the
Federal Ministry o f Health, that were selected based on their performance to date, and will
support the completion o f original project activities that had already been approved in work-
plans for the improved delivery o f primary health care services. An additional US$10 million
i s currently unallocated and i s intended to support a limited number o f states that are also
expected to meet the above mentioned performance criteria shortly. The 22 states expected to
participate inthe first instance are: Akwa Ibom, Abia, Anambra, Bauchi, Benue, Borno, Ekiti,
Enugu, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kogi, Kano, Kwara, Nasarawa, Ondo, Osun, Plateau,
Sokoto Taraba and the FCT. The additional credit will specifically support four sets o f
activities within the broader context o f strengthening primary health care services, namely: (a)
Rehabilitationand refurbishment of Schools o f Health Technology and Schools o fNursingand
Midwifery, with the twin objectives o f augmenting the numbers o f qualified health care
personnel and o f having these schools secure relevant accreditation; (b) Support services,
including the refurbishment and equipping o f primary health facilities at the community level,
training o f health service workers, procurement o f drugs and other medical supplies; (c)
Immunization activities, such as the procurement and repair o f the cold chain equipment and
training o f vaccinators; and (d) Strengthening o f Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems
and processes at both the State and Federal levels. The project is 91 percent disbursed as o f
May, 2008 and the development objective and appraisal targets have mostly beenmet.

3.    Under the additional financing, the project's development objective would remain
unchanged. However, some o f the Project performance indicators would be modified to better
describe the intended results o f the project and the lessons learned from the last five years of
implementation, and to strengthen the results focus o f the monitoring and evaluation system.
The proposedproject would continue to finance the renovation and equipment o f 127 primary
health care centers,19 secondary facilities in areas dealing with maternal /child health for
referral services,   14 Federal Medical Centers, 42 Schools of Nursing/Health technology,

   training for health professionals in EOC, I M C I and ELSS, and procurement o f cold chain
   equipment.

11. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PERFORMANCE

   4.    The original Development Credit agreement in the amount of SDR 101.8 million
   (US$127 million), was approved on June 6, 2002. It became effective on May 23, 2003 and
   the original closing date was December 31, 2006. The project has beenextended twice, with
   the current closing date set for May 31, 2009.                As of May 2008, SDR 93.3 million
   (US$138.17') or about 91 percent o f the total credit had been disbursed and SDR 8.5 million
   (US$13.94) remain un-disbursed. The project aims to support the Federal Government o f
   Nigeria inredressing the serious deterioration inthe delivery o f basic health care services, and
   to pave the way for a more sustained development o f the Nigerian health care system by: (i)
   strengthening capacities for system management at the state level and encouraging an
   environment o f broad based consultation; (ii)supporting improvements in the delivery o f
   primary health care services with a particular focus on maternal and child health and
   reproductive services; and iii)assisting the Federal Government to strengthen its policy
   formulation and further develop a system to monitor the health sector performance.

   5.    The project was originally designed with three components.                   The first component
   supported capacity for Health System management in all States (except for Kano). Each State
   was to receive US$1.5 million to support training for managerial processes and skills and
   technical skill development; development o f the Health Management Information System
   (HMIS); access to information and communication technology; and researcldstudies. The
   second component provided support in the amount o f US$3.5 million to each o f the 18
   qualifying states (based on agreed criteria) to support the delivery of priority health services.
   Each state decided what activities to finance depending on its priorities and needs. The
   framework for support encouraged investments in at least three o f the following areas:
   Strengthening primary health care (PHC) services; furthering disease control; improving the
   availability o f essential and generic drugs; and improving the quality o f training in Nursing,
   Midwifery and Health Technology Schools.                  The African Development Bank supported
   component two by providing US$48.6 million inco-financing for an additional 12 States. The
   third component focused on strengthening the capacity of the Federal Ministry of Health to
   coordinate, monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project (US$7.9 million). Specifically, at
   the Federal level, IDA financing supported the formulation o f health policy and strategies and
   health reform processes, improved HMIS, research and audit studies, and overall project
   coordination including effective M&E.

Status of ProjectImplementation

   6.    Project implementation was slow to start, but improved significantly after restructuring in
   2005. The restructuring entailed the pooling of funds, simplification o f expenditure categories
   for greater flexibility and funds reallocation to better performing states, as detailed below. The
  restructuring discontinued the counterpart financing requirement. Kano state was added to the


 The exchange rate devaluationofthe US$explains why the disbursed amount is larger than the original US$
allocation. The SDR figures, therefore, provide amore easily measureddisbursement indicator.


                                                       2

project at this stage. There were no changes to the original objectives o f the project, although
 some changes were made to increase the scope o f interventions to include secondary health
care and the procurement o f vaccines. The restructuring also extended support for PHC to all
36 states, which led further to a significant increase incivil works related activities.

7.    Overall, project performance has been rated satisfactory for the past three years. All 36
 States have completed over 80 percent o f their agreed annual work plans, and, as noted above,
91% o f the original credit has been disbursed.            There are no unresolved fiduciary,
environmental, social or safeguards problems, except for financial management issues with the
Federal Project Implementation Unit that are currently being addressed, as detailed in
paragraph 38. The key performance indicators suggest that the project has met its appraisal
targets and has had a positive impact on systems strengthening at the state level and the
delivery o f primary health care services to populations that previously had no access.
Strategies undertaken by the States to reduce the high infant and maternal mortality and
morbidity rates include the building and renovation o f basic health facilities in hard to reach
areas, procurement o f medical equipment and drugs, provision o f staff housing, water and
electricity for these facilities, the strengthening o f health systems, and the training o f health
personnel in Integrated Management o f Childhood Illness (IMCI), Emergency Obstetric Care
(EOC) and Emergency Life-Saving Skills (ELSS). The project has also had a significant
impact on revitalizing the health institutions responsible for training midwives, nurses and
community health workers through a reactivation o f their accreditation.

8.    1,329 Primary Health Care Centers that have been either newly constructed or renovated
were located in hard-to-reach areas, where distances to the nearest facility varied from 50-70
kilometers. O f these, 500 health facilities have been equipped with medical equipment. For
referral services, 22 states renovated and provided medical equipment to selected general
hospitals with a specific focus on maternal and child care. As such, maternity and infant wards,
labor rooms and theaters have been provided with resuscitation equipment, baby incubators
and other life saving medical equipment. National surveys conducted indicate the expansion o f
health facilities to underserved areas has contributed to an increase in utilization.       In the
Southwest, outpatient attendance in Ekiti State increased by 24 percent between 2004 and
2005. InNasarawa State, as an example from the North Central zone, attendance at ante natal
clinics grew consistently from 19,000 in2004 to 31,000.

9.     At the Federal level, out of the 23 Federal Medical Centers established to complement
the Teaching Hospitals to provide tertiary health care and serve as referralto secondary health
care, 14 centers selected on the basis of a needs assessment were supported by the project.
Drugs related to infant and maternal child health services were provided and staff was trained
inlife-saving skills and Emergency Obstetric Care (EOC). Inaddition, medical equipment was
provided for pediatrics, emergency obstetrics and gynecology departments, as well as
laboratory services support in all 14 centers. Renovations of the same departments and drug
stores were carried out in 12 centers. Funding from the Federal Government debt buy-back
scheme (Debt ReliefGains) was used to renovate and equip the remaining 2 centers.

10. Over 9000 health workers have been trained in IMCI, 3000 doctors in ELSS and the life
saving skills curriculum has been institutionalized in the training sites established in 14 States



                                                3

 inthe North East, North West andNorthCentral zones. Over 2,000 healthworkers ineach of
the 36 participating states have been trained on the integrated management o f childhood
 illnesses, the delivery o f preventive care and the improvement o f feeding practices. Working
 incollaboration with the European UnionPrime (EUPrime) Project, 30 States have supported
 activities to strengthen routine immunization at the LGA level, such as the provision o f cold
 chain equipment, refrigerators, and solar refrigeration systems as well as the training o f
vaccinators and cold chain officers throughout the state. This assistance has contributed
 significantly to an overall increase in routine immunization coverage from 25 percent in 2005
to 67 percent in 2007, and a reduction in wild polio isolation from 878 cases in 18 states in
2006 to 188 cases in20 states in2007 for the same period.

 11. Twenty states intervened either through civil works or the provision o f equipment intheir
schools o f nursing and midwifery while 24 states worked on their schools o f health technology.
As a result, out of the 85 health training institutions in Nigeria, 35 have received
fuWprovisiona1 accreditation due to the project. Accreditation had previously been withheld
due to the inadequate student hostel facilities, laboratories, lab equipment and reagents, buses
to transport studentsto their practicum, andteaching aids.

 12. The project supports capacity building for the Ministries o f Health in all States, in the
areas o f planning, financial management, monitoring and evaluation.         Each State received
US$l.5 million for capacity building. Health systems management at the State level has been
strengthenedthrough systematic training o f health personnel and substantial investments inthe
computerization o f data, ICT, and equipment at the State Ministries o f Health, SHMBs and
HSDP I1offices. Accounts that were manually enteredhave now been computerized. Several
States are demonstrating utilization o f evidence-based decision making to improve their
policies and consequently their services. Staff trained by the project prepared the health inputs
into the SEEDS documents in several states, and also preparedthe policy documents on free
maternal and child care now being implemented inthese states.

13.    At the Federal level, the project has facilitated policy formulation, regulation, standards
setting and planningthrough funding for such initiatives as the promulgationo f the Health Bill;
National Health FinancingPolicy; National Human Resources for Health Policy; Public Private
Partnership policy; strategic plans for teaching hospitals and federal medical centers; and
support for National Health Accounts processes. The Health Bill i s expected to be approved
by the National Assembly shortly, and would clarify the constitutional ambiguity over the roles
of the three tiers of government, and provide additional funding o f PHCs directly from the
national budgetthrough the proposed Health Fund.

14. Technical management o f the project by the PIUs established at the State level has been
satisfactory.    Procurement and financial management activities have been undertaken
satisfactorily and in compliance with agreed implementation guidelines. The coordination o f
the implementation as well as the oversight and policy guidance provided by the Federal
Ministry o f Health (FMOH) and Federal Ministry of Finance (FMOF) has been adequate. It
should be noted, however, that monitoring and evaluation remains a continuing challenge,
owing to the size and volume o fprojects across the 36 states andthe weak capacity at all levels
for effective data collection and analysis. Therefore, the additional financing will focus on



                                               4

   strengthening the monitoring and evaluation functions through increased funding, capacity
   building and enhancements to the M&E arrangements (e.g., contracting consulting firms to
   manage M&E and visit states regularly).

   15.    Table 1 summarizes the progressmade during implementation on key project indicators.


          PDO Outcome




  Primary Health Care




  StrengthenDeliveryofPric
  Improved delivery o f
  vaccines
  Improved skills o f health      Percentage o f health staff trained
  workers                         inELSS, LSS and IMCIas per                   0         40%           80%
                                 plans
                                                                          ~~~

  Availability o f essential      Percentage o f health facilities
  medical equipment in health meetingNational standard in                     40%        90%           100%
  facilities                      medical equipment
  Availability o f essential      Proportion o f health facilities not
  drugs at Primary Health         experiencing out o f stock                  20%        70%           80%
  Care (PHC) facilities           syndrome o f essential drugs for a
                                  week
   Renovated health facilities    Proportion o f health facilities
                                  meeting state standards on                  40%        90%           100%
                                 physical structure
  ImprovingPolicy Formula1 ,n
  Health policy environment      Number o f health
  improved                       policieshesearch studies
                                 approved by the National                      0           15
                                 Council o f Health

111. RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

16.       The additional financing will cover the gap in funding created after the project was
restructured in 2005 and scaled up. As part of the restructuring, the available resources were

* The table presents key averagebaseline,current and anticipatedend-of-project outcomes for a sample of25
percentofthe participating Statesbeing supportedthrough the project.


                                                        5

reallocated to cover overspending by 15 out o f the 36 states.            In order to meet these
 commitments, funds were pooled into a common basket to ensure that contracts were honored.
As a result o f the pooling, states that had previously beenpromised additional resources during
the restructuring were unable to access funds to complete their work plan activities.           The
additional support for secondary and referral services as well as vaccine cold chain equipment
also contributed to the overspending o f State allocations that had been provided under the
restructuring. The overspending on allocations and available funding was unfortunate, but at the
 same time, the expansion o f activities reflects the growing demand and commitment among the
LGAs and communities to strengthenthe delivery o fPHC services. This financing gap resulting
from the scaling up o f the project activities has prompted the Federal and State Governments to
seek additional financing for HSDP I1 in order to carry out agreed work plans and complete
ongoing activities. The additional financing would also ensure that the project maximizes the
achievement o f the development objective by reaching more communities, assisting in the
implementation of the minimum health care package at ward level, facilitating its
implementation at the community level, and increasing the capacity o f State institutions to
strengthen health systems.

 17.     Alternatives to additional financing were considered, such as the preparation o f a new
Bank project, use o f government funds or financing from other donors. The most recent World
Bank business planningexercise determined that the Maternal and ChildHealth (MNCH) project
would be delivered in FYI1. Without additional financing, thus, there will be minimal work
done on maternal and child health for the next couple o f years, which would be a travesty given
that the maternal and child health indicators in Nigeria are among the poorest in the world. The
additional financing will fill an important gap until the M N C H Project i s prepared and ready to
disburse. Despite the ten percent counterpart funding being invested by the government, the
States remain unable to finance the additional financing needs at this time. Likewise, they would
not be able to obtain additional funds from other support agencies on reasonable terms and in
good time.

IV. PROPOSEDCHANGES

18.      The additional financing proposed (US$90 million) would retain the objectives and
implementationprocedures o f the original project. O f this amount, US$SO million would, inthe
first instance, be allocated, as requested by the recipient, as a supplementary credit to the Federal
Government and 22 states including the Federal Capital territory (FCT). The government has
agreed that due to the limited resources available and in order to reward good performance,
achieve economies o f scale, and ensure impact, not all o f the states will participate in the
additional financing. Given the political sensitivities, performance-based criteria have been
agreed in order to select the States that will be supported through the additional financing. The
government convened a meeting with all project stakeholders to discuss the criteria which are
based on project performance, fiduciary compliance, financing gap, stability of the Project
Implementation Units and PFMUs and the timely payment o f government contributions. The
additional financing will only support those states that have performed well to date. The 22
States selected in the first batch meet this criteria and based on their current work-plan
projections indicate that roughly 50 percent o f the funds will go to support civil works
(completing the rehabilitation o f health training institutions and primary health centers and



                                                  6

provision o f water); 30 percent for service delivery, including commodities and equipment; and
20 percent for systems development (e.g. M&E) and capacity building at the state and facility
level. An additional unallocated amount o f US$lO million i s to be set aside to support a few
states that are very close to meetingthe same performance criteria noted above and have initiated
measures to address the identified issues. These additional states will be admitted to the IDA
Credit once they have been successfully assessed for eligibility and readiness. It i s envisaged
that the additional funding will support the following sets o f activities within the broader context
o f strengtheningprimaryhealth care services:

    0   Rehabilitation of Schools of Health Technology and Schools of Nursing and
        Midwifery US$ 16.53m. The objective of this component i s to support 36 health
        training institutions to secure relevant accreditation in order to improve the quality o f
        humanresources for health. Renovatiodupgrading ofequipment andtraining facilities, as
        well as the provision o f basic pedagogic materials, will especially improve the supply o f
        skilled attendants at birth.

        Support to Health Services US$54.06m. The objective o f this component i s to support
        activities that would improve the delivery o f primary health care services and increase
        utilization rates. The additional financing would support the refurbishmenthe-equipment
        o f primary health facilities and training o f health workers, as well as immunization
        activities, such as the procurement and repair o f cold chain equipment and the training o f
        vaccinators. 127 primary health care centers are to be rehabilitated, which are designated
        ineach State's work-plan.


    0   Strengthening monitoring and evaluation systems and processes at National and
        State levels US$ 9.41m. The objective of this component i s to strengthen the processes
        and systems to ensure evidence-based decision makingand confirmation o f the impact o f
        government interventions inimproving the delivery o f basic health services. The absence
        o f baseline data and inconsistent efforts to track results has impededthe project's ability
        to inform policy decisions, and build the capacity for health systems management. The
        challenges o f working across 36 states and the weak capacity at all levels for quality data
        collection should not be underestimated. Therefore, the focus on only 22 states that are
        already well-performing, combined with a revamped monitoring and evaluation
        framework, i s expected to support more meaningful use o f project data.            A rapid
        assessment o f the current HMIS systems will be conducted to ascertain the bottlenecks
        and the remaining gaps indata. The Director of Health Planning, Research and Statistics
        will continue to be responsible for monitoring and evaluation.          But, the additional
        financing will allocate supplemental funding to contract M&E firms to partner with the
        Director o f Health Planning, Research and Statistics to deliver quality project monitoring
        and evaluation, and establish a sustainable M&E system that can continue to benefit the
        government after the closing o f the IDA project. These firms will also be tasked with
        additional supervision responsibilities to ensure that field visits are undertaken on a
        regular basis. The revised M&E framework i s included inSchedule A.




                                                  7

ProjectCosts and Financing

 19.     Total project costs, including taxes and duties, are estimated at US$90 million. The
breakdown o f estimated costs i s shown in Schedule B. Schedule C lays out the project's
financing plan and disbursement schedule. A summary o f procurement arrangements is given in
Schedule D.

ProjectImplementation,FinancialManagement,Disbursementand Procurement
Arrangements

20.     Implementation mechanisms. The implementation arrangements under the additional
financing would be the same as for the original project, as they are generally working well. The
one area where some changes will be made i s with respect to monitoring and evaluation. State
ministriesof health (SMOH) would continue to be responsible for project management through
the established state project implementation units (PIUs). LGAs are responsible for delivering
basic health services in upgraded facilities supported under the project. The chief medical
officer inthe LGA i s responsible for ensuringthat each facility i s operated according to standard
procedures and guidelines.      The Director of Health Planning and Research in the Federal
Ministry of Health has the overall responsibility for the project, operating through the National
Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU).         The NPCU monitors implementation of the federal
component and provides assistance to states, as needed, to implement their respective work
programs. It also consolidates annual work programs, reports and accounts. Inorder to improve
the quality of the monitoring and evaluation functions, the NPCU will hire private firms to
support the collection, analysis and reporting activities for the project. These firms would also
provide guidance and technical assistance to the NPCU on how to effectively establish a
functioning monitoring and evaluation system. The NPCU will organize semi-annual meetings
o f state health commissioners to review progress in project implementation. The National
Project Steering Committee (NPSC) plays a critical role in enhancing management, monitoring
progress, providing overall policy direction and coordination among various agencies. The
World Bank will also explore methods for conducting supplemental supervision to the 22 States
to better monitor implementation, evaluate impact and provide quality assurance.

21.     World Bank supervision arrangements. Inorder to support the government's efforts to
strengthen monitoring and evaluation o f health indicators, the Bank will seek opportunities to
equally ramp up its own capacity to provide more frequent and comprehensive supervision.
Working across 36 States proved unwieldy for regular Bank supervision budgeting and
manpower. The reduction in the number of States will be helpful, but supervising activities at
the local level in 22 States would remain a significant challenge. The quality o f supervision
would need to improve significantly to capture the results o f the project and translate those
results into meaningful assessments about the progress o f implementation. Therefore, the Bank
will look into securing additional funding resources to enhance its own monitoring and
evaluatiodsupervision responsibilities to provide better guidance and advice to the States until
project closing.




                                               8

Financial managementand disbursement arrangements

22.     The same designated accounts will be used as for the original credit with authorized
 ceilings o f US$500,000 for the account managed by the Federal Ministry o f Health and
US$600,000 for those managed by the PFMUs in the participating states. Sub-project accounts
will also be maintained by the implementingagencies in a bank acceptable to IDA. Statements
o f expenditures would be used for all expenditures under contracts below the Association's prior
review limits.

23.     Although counterpart funding i s no longer an IDA requirement, the Federal Government
is requiring states to contribute 50 million Naira every fiscal year as a demonstration o f their
commitment to the project. This will also assist in sustainability, as government budgetary lines
will thereby be instituted for the projects.

24.     The Disbursements for the Additional Financing will be through standard and approved
Bank disbursement methods, which will be defined in the Disbursement Letter. These will
include Reimbursements, Advances, Direct Payments and Special Commitments where required
by procurement contracts. Designated Accounts will be managed by the State Project Financial
Management Units (PFMUs). As in the case o f the original credit, the proceeds o f the IDA
credit will be allocated to States and Federal agencies based on annual work plans to be reviewed
and certified by the Federal Ministry o f Health andthe Bank. Ceilings for Advances to individual
States will be for a minimal amount initially, and this amount will be varied during
implementation based on continued satisfactory performance o f each State on project
implementation, including on financial management aspects, and approved work plans. The
initial allocation and corresponding ceilings, along with subsequent changes to these, will be
documented in the Disbursement Letter to be issued for this operation and actual utilization o f
the allocationby each State will be monitoredby the task team. This would allow funds to be re-
allocated to deservingand performing states that couldjustify the need for these funds.

25.     The Credit will finance 100% of eligible expenditures, including goods and civil works,
consultants and training, and operating expenses, which will be collapsed into two categories
each for the participating States and the Federal agency respectively.       Advances made to
Designated Accounts shall be accounted for based on Statements o f Expenditure and reported to
the Bank by each State and federal agency regularly through the project implementation period.
Disbursements will be made against standard IDA documentation, and documentary evidence
will be sought by the Bank for expenditures above thresholds inthe Disbursement Letter.

26.     Procurement arrangements. Generally, under the proposed additional financing, the
general procurement arrangements would be the same as the arrangements under the Second
Health Systems Development Project. However, the updated "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credit" publishedby the Bank inMay 2004, and as revised in2006, will
apply to all goods and works contracts financed under the additional financing.              Also
procurement o f consultants' services shall be governed by the "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank inMay 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and the provisions stipulated inthe Financing Agreement. The various
itemsunder different expenditure categories are described ingeneral below. For each contract to
be financed by the Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods,


                                                 9

the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame will be
 agreed between the Borrower and IDA in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be
updated at least annually, or as required, to reflect project implementation needs and
 improvements ininstitutional capacity.

27.      RevisedProject Closing Date. The closing date for the additional financing will be May
30, 2012. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared within six months after the
closing o f the project.

 V. CONSISTENCY WITH CPS AND AFRICAN ACTION PLAN

28.      The proposed additional financing i s consistent with the objectives and approach of the
current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), 2005-2009, that supports Nigeria's National
Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS). The main objectives o f the CPS
are improved: (i)service delivery for human development; (ii)        environment and services for
non-oil growth; and (iii) transparency and accountability for better governance. The main focus
o f the HSDP I1i s to assist the Federal and State Governments in the improvement o f service
delivery for humandevelopment, with particular focus on the implementation o f the health care
system.    The project also supports strengthened monitoring and evaluation capacity, policy
formulation and implementation which are also critical for improved accountability under the
remaining focus areas o f the CPS. The proposed project includes activities that are central to
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) for Health. And the proposed project also
supports the objectives laid out in the Africa Action Plan (AAP), including with respect to the
results framework for achieving impact and developing national capacities for the management
o f health systems.

Complementaritiesof Donor Activities

29.     The African Development Bank (AfDB) will continue to provide co financing for the
strengthening o f primary health care services in the twelve states that did not receive funds for
health services under HSDP 11. Since disbursement o f their funds did not begin until 2006, the
AfDB continues to have available resources to implement activities in these twelve States. In
addition, the European Union i s providing  38 million for the repair o f cold chain equipment in
6 states. These activities are distinct from those to be financed by IDA and will complement the
implementationo f the Bank project.

VI. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

Economicand Financial Analysis

30.     EconomicAnalysis: Health outcomes inNigeria are poor inabsolute numbersand when
compared to countries o f similar income levels. The infant mortality rate during 1999-2003 was
100 per 1000 live births and child mortality 201 per 1000 (NDHS 2003).             Communicable
diseases, particularly malaria, diarrhea, pneumonia, compounded by malnutrition, are the major
causes o f child mortality. Preventing or treating any o f these communicable diseases creates
positive externalities by reducing the risk of other people contracting them.             Without



                                                 10

Government intervention, there would not be an optimal supply and demand o f these services.
HSDP I1aims precisely at improving the supply of basic health care services (PHC), where the
majority o f these diseases can be preventedand treated at a relatively low cost.

31.       The support to PHC services, the main aim o f the project, can also bejustified for equity
reasons. The poor are more likely to use PHC facilities than the non-poor. Data from the NLSS
2004 shows that the poorest 20 percent o f the population are more likely to use PHC facilities
than hospitals for health care consultations. Indeed, among those that used a health service, 61
percent went to a PHC facility and only 23 percent to a hospital. Among the richest 20 percent
o f the population only 32 percent visited a PHC facility, as the majority receives care from
hospitals. In addition, the poor are more likely to visit a public facility for consultations (82
percent). In contrast, among the richest 20 percent o f the population, only 56 percent uses a
public facility.

32.      All activities financed by HSDP I1 are meant to support progress towards achieving
MDGs 4 and 5, which focus on reducing child and maternal mortality.                          These goals were
endorsed by the Nigerian Government, as well as the international community, justifying both
the Government's and the World Bank's continued support to these activities. When the project
was restructured, support to secondary health care services was included but with a focus on
child, maternal, and reproductive health services.                This support is necessary as access to
secondary care i s vital to improve maternal survival.

33.      Finally, a large part of the project i s aimed at building capacity at the Federal and State
government levels to design and implement health strategies and to better manage the delivery o f
services3. Without improvingcapacity, especially at lower levels o f Government, it will not be
possible to improve service delivery andhealth outcomes, especially among the poor.

34.      Justification of Bank's continuing support to the activitiesfunded through theproject
and Financial Gap analysis. The project's development objective was to assist the Nigerian
Health authorities in their efforts to redress the serious deterioration in the delivery of basic
health care services and build institutional capacity. To achieve this objective the project had
three components. The first component was to strengthen capacities for system management at
the state level and encourage an environment o f broad based consultation. This component was
open to all interested states (Kano was not included inthe original project) and each state would
have US$l.5 million for all activities covered under this component. The second component was
meant to improve the delivery o f PHC services with particular focus on maternal, child, and
reproductive health services. Only qualifying states (18) could have access to these resources,
each o f which was provided a total o f US$ 3.5 million. Another 12 states received financing for
similar activities from the AfDB. Finally, the last component o f the project was meant to assist
the Federal Government to strengthen its policy formulation and further develop a system to
monitor the health sector performance. The Federal Government received US$7.2 million for
this activity.




 The Federallevel is incharge of policy guidance and technical support to the overall system and the management
oftertiary care while states and LGA are responsible for providing secondary and primary care services.


                                                         11

35.     In 2005, in response to the initial slow disbursement in some states, the project was
restructured and resources were reallocated from less performing to better performing states. In
addition to this reallocation, during the restructuring all states became eligible for component 2
of the project. Disbursement in all states increased rapidly after this first restructuring. As a
result, 14 states, mainly those that saw their original allocation reduced, overdrew funds, as
shown inTable 2 below.

  Ta                                                                                         005




                                                12

36.     As a consequence of this overdraft, all project funds were consolidated into a pool; states
could access funds from this pool on a first come first serve basis.     The original design o f the
project allocated about US$5 million for the states eligible for the first two components (see
Table 2). However, after the changes to the project in 205, particularly those allowing all states
to participate in both components, the total final allocation to the states was, on average, about
US$1.7 million less than what was originally thought to be needed to achieve progress towards
the PDO. As o f May 2008, about US$140 million had been committed from this project. Ten
states were able to commit US$5 million or more. On average, however, the states committed
only about US$3.6 million. This financing gap resulting from the scale up o f project activities i s
the main reason why the Government has asked for additional financing to ensure the
achievement o f the PDO. The additional financing o f US$90 million will allow an average
allocation o f US$3 millionto each state.

37.     Additionally, the Nigeria National Integrated Maternal, Newborn, and Child Health
Strategy has estimated that to significantly progress towards MDG 4 and 5 and achieve a 28
percent reduction in under five mortality and a 24 percent reduction in maternal mortality, an
extra US$3.25 per capita per year in clinical PHC would be needed between 2007-2009. The
original allocation to the states under the two components would have offered about half o f this
amount. On average each Nigerian state has about 4 million people; therefore, the states eligible
under both components received on average about US$1.25 per person per year under the
original allocation and only about US$l inthe final allocation, as detailed in Table 3. The latter
amount is less than a third o f the total extra resources needed and thus not likely to make a major
contribution towards achieving the original PDO. The supplemental US$90 million will support
an average allocation of about US$1.6 per capita or about 45 percent o f what it is needed to
achieve the MDGs.




                                                   13

    Federal                                     7.2            11,811,611
    Total                   140              124.2            140,223,155         1.oo
    Average                 3.6                 3.3            3566987.3           1.2



38.   Financial Analysis: Under the proposedadditional financing, the financial management
arrangementswouldbethe same as the arrangementunder the HSDP I1which is premisedon the
State PFMUs. The PFMU i s a multi-donor and multi-project FM platform that was established


                                          14

through the joint efforts o f the Bank and Government. These PFMUs feature strong and robust
systems and controls. Inaccordance with Bank policy and procedures, the financial management
arrangements o f the project are continuously reviewed during financial management supervision
missions and reviews o f periodic reports. Recent reviews have shown that FM performance has
been moderately satisfactory inmost o f the participating states. Consistent with the performance
based eligibility criteria agreed with the Government, states with issues that represent serious
fiduciary risks have not been included in the additional financing. However, the Federal level
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which i s included, has outstanding FM issues such as
ineligible expenditures, inadequate supporting documentation, and un-retired advances. These
issues have been communicated to the PIU, which i s working on resolving them, and a failure to
address these issues ina manner satisfactory to the Bank by October 31,2008 will leadthe Bank
to exercise the available remedies specified in the D C A o f the original project. A satisfactory
resolution o f these issues will be attested by the Financial Management Staff of the Bank.
Overall, the financial management arrangements for the project are adequate for the
implementation o f the project at the State and Federal levels.

39.     The computerized accounting and reporting system in place is adequate and allows for
production o f timely and reliable financial information required for the management and
monitoring o f project activities. This system has facilitated the timely rendition o f the Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs) by the participating states.

40.     Technical: The design o f the project will not be changed although the components have
been grouped into 3 subsets to allow for easier implementation. The design strengthens the
health systems at the state level thereby improving access to health services.

41.     Procurement: The procurement management function o f the project has continued to be
satisfactory in most o f the participating states. The Federal and State Implementation Units
(PIUs) have qualified and experienced Procurement Officers. The last post procurement review
o f the Second Health System Development Project, undertaken in June 2008, concluded that
procurement processes and procedures are properly observed, and procurement plans are adhered
to and procurement files are well maintained, except in a few State implementingunits (as inthe
case o f financial management, states with serious procurement issues are not included in the
additional financing).   This review and recent supervision mission reports indicate that the
inadequate contract management skills that existed at the early part o f project implementation
have been largely remedied. The State procurement plans for the uncommitted balance o f the
current project have been approved by the Bank, while the plans for the additional financing
were reviewed and agreed prior to negotiations.           Undue (political) interference in the
procurement process has been minimal and limited to a few States.

42.     Environmental Analysis: The original project was categorized as a C since it was not
expected to generate any adverse environmental effects. The proposed additional financing
project i s categorized as a By since it might generate small and site-specific adverse
environmental impacts associated with the rehabilitation o f health institutions and repair o f cold
chain equipment. Accordingly, an Environmentaland Social Management Framework (ESMF)
for the project has beenprepared and disclosed in-country and at the Infoshop.




                                                15

VII. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

  43.     The additional financing would be used to finance activities that would help achieve the
  following objectives: (a) Strengthened capacity to plan and implement health policies at State
  Government level; (b) Improved immunization coverage; and (c) Improved maternal health
  services. The key Performance Indicators are included in Schedule A.

VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

  44.    Benefits. The project, as designed, will benefit primarily poor Nigerians who are the
  main users of public health services.       Health outcomes in Nigeria are poor and, without
  government intervention, there would not be an optimal supply and demand o f health services.
  All activities financed under HSDP I1 support progress towards achieving MDGs 4 and 5.
  Accordingly, enhancements in the availability and quality o f basic health services would be
  largely targeted to children and women. The focus on 22 States means that the project will still
  maintain a wide scope for reaching a large number o f beneficiaries, even as encouragement i s
 provided to the better performing States. State governments would also benefit from capacity
  building interventions to better manage health service delivery and implement health strategies.
 Activities aimed at supporting the health sector reform agenda would lay the foundation for more
  sustained development o f the health sector inNigeria.

 45.     Risks. Most o f the risks mentioned in the original PAD with respect to the achievement
 of the project development objectives remain valid, especially with respect to weak capacity,
 coordination issues, and financial management. The issue o f political commitment and support
 for health sector reform has been mitigated by the fact that only those States meetingthe agreed
 performance criteria will be participating in the project. Furthermore, the scope o f the project
 has been reduced to focus on key activities that have been well implemented, have strong
 government support, and have been demonstrated to have a positive impact on the achievement
 o f the development objectives.        Experience with the implementation o f HSDP I1 has
 demonstrated the need to mitigate two additional risks. The first risk i s that Federal HMIS
 systems will not be able to effectively capture State level HMIS data and provide summary
 analysis o f project performance. To mitigate this risk, under the additional financing, finds will
 be set aside to enable assessments o f where the gaps are at State and LGA level. In addition,
 specific support will be provided to the FMOH in the discharge o f their M&E functions, e.g.,
 through contracted private sector firms.       The second risk is that adequate funding to the
 LGAdfacilities to undertake primary health care activities may not be sustained. The passage o f
 the pending Health Bill, which mandates budget allocations directly to primary health care
 centers, would help inthe mitigation of this risk.

 46.     Inaddition, this project will involve a large number of small procurement transactions, in
 terms o f shopping, minor works and consultancy services, especially at the State level. This
 necessitates a system that can curb fraud and corruption and enhance contract management. To
 mitigate this risk, the Federal Implementing Unit will provide opportunities to stakeholders to
 freely report anomalies in a safe environment and establish a monitoring system. Inthis regard,
 the Federal ImplementingUnit will dedicate a hot line (telephone line) to report anomalies. This
 line will be accessible to all stakeholders, suppliers, contractors and consultants. Also, a web-site



                                                  16

with unhinderedaccess will be established for this purpose at the FPSU. The website and hot
line will be managed by an experienced Investigation Officer that may be assigned from any o f
the Investigation Agencies, i.e., the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) or
Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC). The Investigation Officers will receive and
screen calls and instituteappropriate follow-up.

IX. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

47.     The proposed Additional Financing would be provided on standard IDA terms with a
maturity o f 40 years and a grace period o f 10 years, and a commitment fee not to exceed 0.5
percent.

48.     Other than submission o f a satisfactory legal opinion on the Financing Agreement and the
revised Subsidiary Financing Agreements from each State, there are no conditions of
effectiveness.  Covenants to be included are standard and pertain to financial management,
including the auditing o f project financial statements by independent auditors in a manner
acceptable to IDA.




                                                17

                                                                                     SCHEDULE A



                                                         NIGERIA
                                        ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR
                   THE SECONDHEALTHSYSTEMSDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                    REVISED PROJECT RESULTSMONITORING FRAMEWORK

PDO Outcomes               Indicators                             Baseline  Target   Data Source
                                                                  2003      End of
                                                                            Project
Strengthened capacity to   Percentageof states routinely linking                     Selected PER Reports
plan and implementhealth   State health plans with annual budgets     0%      100%
policies at State
Government level
Improved immunization      Immunization rate (for both under-1       60%      80%    Admin records and
coverage                   and under-5 years)                                        survey; SMOHfLGAs
Improved maternal health   Percentage of pregnant women              20%      50%    Admin records SMOH
services                   attending ante-natal clinics
Intermediate Outcomes
Component 1:RehabilitationandRefurbishmentof Schoolsof
HealthTechnology,NursingandMidwifery

Strengthened capacity of    I.Percentageofbirthattendantstrained                     Administrative Records
Schools of Health          in ELSS, L S and IMCIat benefiting
Technology, Nursing and    Schools of Health Technology, Nursing     20%      80%
Midwifery                  and Midwifery (disaggregatedby
                           Nurses and Midwifes)


                           2. Percentageof Schools of Health
                           Technology, Nursing and Midwifery          0%      100%   Administration Records
                           accredited by the Nursing and                             and Survey
                           Midwifery Council of Nigeria

Component 2: Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation
Systems and Processesat the National and State
Government Levels

Functional Health          I.Percentageofstatesproducing                             Survey; SMOWPIU
Management Information     satisfactory annual HMIS report            0%      100%
System (HMIS)



Increasedutilization of    Attendance of patients at renovated                       Official Gazette
Primary Health Care        Primary HealthCare facilities             TBA      TBD
facilities                 (disaggregated between out-patients
                           and in-patients)
[mprovedcapacity to store  Percentageof LGAs in participating                        Official Gazette
ind maintain vaccines for  states with functioning cold chains       60%      100%
.outine immunization at
;GA level




                                                              18

                                                                      SCHEDULE B

                                                                         Page 1of 2
                                              NIGERIA
                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR
                 THE SECONDHEALTHSYSTEMSDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                          SCHEDULE A: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
                                       (in US$million equivalent)

                                                          Total       Percentage of
                                                                     Expendituresto be
        ProjectCost by Component                          US$ m         Financed

Rehabilitation and Refurbishment of Schools                16.53          100%
ifHealthTechnology and SchoolsofNursing
mdMidwifery
Support to Health Services                                54.06           100%
StrengtheningMonitoring and Evaluation                                    100%
Systems, and Processes at National and State               9.41
level
Unallocated                                               10.00           100%

                          Total Projectcosts              90.00
                   TotalFinancingRequired                 90.00



          ProjectCost by Category                         Total       Percentageof
                                                                     Expendituresto be
                                                                        Financed

1. Goods, Consultancy, Construction &                                     100%
Training                                                  72.73
                                                                          100%
2. Operating Costs                                         7.27
3. Unallocated                                            10.00           100%
Total IDA-supported Project Costs
                                                          90.00




                                                  19

                                                                                Page 2 of 2

                                   STATE ALLOCATIONS
                                       (in US$equivalent)

 I        States     I Total Allocation      Good, Constructions,    1  Operating Costs     I




  Sub Total                   76,000,000 I               69,082,890 I             6,917,110
  Unallocated                 10.000.000 I                7.nnn.000 I             3.n00.000
I Total             I         90,000,000 I              80.082.890 I              9.917.110 I


                                SOURCE OF FINANCING
                                 (in US$million equivalent)



                                   Local      Foreign        Total       Percentageof
                                                                      ForeignExpenditures
IDA                                                           90             23%

Total                                                         90




                                            20

                                                                  SCHEDULE C

                                                                       Page 1of 2

                                        NIGERIA
                            ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR
                THE SECONDHEALTHSYSTEMSDEVELOPMENT

                      PROJECT ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS

                      FINANCING PLAN (by ProjectComponent)
                                (in US$million equivalent)


  ProjectCost By Componentand/or Activity                         Total

  Component 1: Rehabilitationof Health Training Institutes

                             .thServices                           54.06
 IComponent 3: Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Systems                  I
                                                                    9.41
  Unallocated                                                      10.00
                                             TotalProjectCosts     90.00

                                     TotalFinancing;Required       90.00




                             DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
                                (in US$million equivalent)

I      IDA FY                    2009                     2010       2011

       Annual                     10                      50          30
    Cumulative                    10                      60          90




                                            21

                                                                                                                       SCHEDULE D

                                                                                                                             Page 1 o f 1

                                                                NIGERIA
                                               ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR
                     THE SECONDHEALTHSYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                          PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
                                                       (in US$ thousand equivalent)




                                                                                       ProcurementMethod
                      Category
                                                              International          National               Other                      Total
                                                              Competitive          Competitive            Methods          NIF
                                                                Bidding               Bidding

1. Works                                                        9,645.00            21,237.00              800.00                  31,682.00

                                                                                I                      I                  I      I



2. Goods, Vehicles and Medical Supplies                         9,000.00        I   17,595.00          1  8,162.00        1      134,757.00


3. Consultants' services, training and audit:                                                             6,286,OO                  6,286.00

                    Sub Total                                  18,645.00            38,832.00            15,6245.00                72,722.00

4. Operating costs                                                                                        7,275.00                  7,275.00

5. Unallocated                                                                                            10,000.00                10,000.00
                        Total                                  18,645.00            38,832.00             32,520.00               90,000.00
   N.I.F.= Not IDA-financed.
   Figuresin parenthesisare the amountsto be financed by the IDA Additional Financing. Slight differences may resultfrom roundingof figures.




                                                                     22

Slno. State
                     Disbursed
                                              Operations    Total
               CW     Goods     Consltraining




                            23

I

MAP SECTION


                                                                                 To Tahoua                                                   To Agadez                    10E     To Nguigmi                                                           15E
                                                                                                                                                                                                N I G E R
                                                                                           Illela                                                                                                                                                   1963 Level


                            N I G E R                                            S O K O T O                                                                                                                                                                1973 Level
                                                         To
                                                         To                                                                                                                                                                      Yobe
                                                        Kandi                              Sokoto                                  Katsina                                                                                                                       2001 Level
                                                                                                                                                                                      Nguru              Yobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Yo                  Oamasak

                                                                      Rima                             Sokoto Kaura
                                                                                                             Namoda                      S      a        h         e      l                                                                            Lake Chad

                                                           Birnin                                                            K A T S I N A                                 Hadejia                       Gana

                                                           Kebbi                                                                                           J I G A W A                                                              BORNO
                                                                                                         Gusau                                                                                          YOBE                                                   C H A D
                                                                                                  ZAMFARA                                 Kano
                                                                                                                                                                   Dutse         Jam
                                                                                                                                                                                   maaarari      Komadugu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Maiduguri
                                                            KEBBI                                                                                                                                Pokiskum     Damaturu
                                          To
                                          To
                                         Kandi             Niger                                                                            KANO

                                                                                                                               Zaria                                                          Gongola                                   t s.

                                                                                                                                                                                              GOMBE
                                                                                                                                                                 B A U C H I                                                           M
                    B E N I N                                                                 Kontagora                          Kaduna                                                                                  Biu
                                                              Kainji                                                                                                      Bauchi
                                                            Reservoir                                                            K A D U N A                                                            Gombe
               10N                                            Wawa             N I G E R                     Kaduna           B a u c h i                                                                                           ra                                    10N
                                                                                                                                                       Jos
                     To
                     To                                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                    Bori                                                                                                      P l a t e a u
                                                                                                                   Minna                                Jos                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                       Nig er                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                               ABUJA                               P L A T E A U                Benue                   W Yola   a

                                                                          K W A R A                                     FEDERAL                                      Shendam                                                    M
                                                                                                                        CAPITAL                                                                         Jalingo
                                                                                                                Baro TERRITORY                             Plateau
                                                                              Ilorin
                                                                                                                               NASARAWA          Lafia                                                             ADAMA
                                                   OYO                                                                                                                                                                                                      NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                 Benue
                                                                                                                                 Be                                                        Taraba
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bali
                                                            Oshogbo                    EKITI                         Lokoja                                              Wukari
                                                                                            Ado-Ekiti        K O G I                   Makurdi                                   T A R A B A
                                                  Ibadan
                                                                      OSUN               Akure                                            B E N U E                                                             ts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                 Abeokuta                                          O N D O                                                U d i H i l l s                                      Chappal Waddi
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (2,419 m )
                                      O G U N                                                         E D O                                                                                        G  o t h
                                                                                                                             ENUGU
                To
                To                                                                                                   ANAMBRA     Enugu
               Lom
               Lom                               LAGOS                                  Benin                                           Abakaliki
                                                 Lagos                                     City
                                                                                                         Asaba              Awka     EBONYI                                                                                                  NIGERIA
                                                                                          Sapete                                                                                           C A M E R O O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                 D E L T A                                 CROSS
                                                                                                                       Owerri     Umuahia
                                                                                                   Warri      Niger                         RIVER
                                                                                                                       IMO     ABIA                                                                                                            STATE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
               5N                                                                                               RIVERS        Aba      Uyo
                                                                                                  Yenogoa                         AKWA-      Calabar                                                                           5N
                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                            To
                               Gulf            of          Guinea                         N                         Port                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                             Harcourt              IBOM                   Doula
                                                                                             i   BAYELSA
                                                                                              g                                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                 e
SEPTEMBER                                                                                         r                                                                            0            50       100     150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                      D  e l                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS
                                                                                                              t  a                                                                                                                                                              IBRD
                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                STATE BOUNDARIES
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                  0                 50           100         150 Miles
                                                                                                                                     Bioko I.                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES             33458
         2004   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                   5E                                      (EQ. GUINEA)                                  10E

