Document of
The World Bank
Report No!3560-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
MAY 16, 1995
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Bs)
Official Exchange Rate Effective July 1994
US$1.00 = Bs 4.6
USS0.22 = Bs 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)         =       2.205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)               =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)             =       0.62 miles (mi.)
1 meter (m)                  =       3.28 feet (ft)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAHH          -       Land Settlement Division (Asentamientos Humanos)
Cat-San       -       Creation of a legal cadastre, including regularization of land rights
(catastro con saneaniento)
CNRA          -       National Agrarian Reform Council (Consejo Nacional de Reforma
Agraria)
CI             -      Intervention Commission (Intervenci6n Nacional CNRA-INC)
DDRR           -      Real Estate Registry (Derechos Reales)
DNCU           -      National Direction of Urban Cadastre (Direcci6n Nacional de Catastro
UTrban)
DNRCC          -      National Direction of the Legal Cadastral Registry (Direcci6n
Nacional del Registro Legal del Catastro)
GIS           -       Geographic Information System
GPS           -       Global Positioning System
IDA            -      International Development Association
1GM            -      Military Geographic Institute (Instituto Geogrifico Militar)
INC            -      National Colonization Institute (Instituto Nacional de Colonizaci6n)
INTI           -      National Land Institute (Instituto Nacional de Tierras)
MDSMA          -      Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
(Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Medio Ambiente)
MTR            -      Mid-Term Review
NGO            -      Non-Goverment Organization
OJA            -      Agrarian Courts (Organo Judicial Agrario)
OT            -       Territorial Planning (Ordenamiento Territorial)
PLUT           -      Land Use Plan (Plan de Uso de Tierras)
RLC            -      Legal Cadastral Registry (Registro Legal del Catastro)
SEFOR         -       Forestry Service (Servicio Forestal)
SA            -       Special Account
SOE           -       Statement of Expenditure
UCAP           -      Project Administration Coordination Unit (Unidad de Coordinaci6n
Administrativa del Proyecto)
UDAPTI         -      Land Policy Analysis Unit (Unidad de AnAlisis de Politica sobre la
Tierra)
UMCAT          -      Cat-San Management Unit



BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMA RY .............................................................i
INTRODUCTION
1.  BACKGROUND .............................................................1
A.  The Macro-Economic Situation ..............................................................1
B.   The Natural Resources Base ......................................1....................... 
C.  Present Land Administration ..................................5.......................... 
2.  THE PROPOSED  LAND REFORM  PROCESS .............................................    8
A.  Legal Framework .............................................................                   8
B.  Government Land Policy ............................................................             9
3. IDA STRATEGY, EXPERIENCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ... 15
A. IDA Assistance Strategy .15
B. Bank Group Operations .16
C.   Rationale for IDA Involvement ........................          ..............................    16
D.   Lessons from Experience ......................................................   17
E.   Environmental Issues ......................................................   17
This report is based on the work of an IDA mission which visited Bolivia in July 1994. The mission
comprised Ms. I. Girardot-Berg, Chief of Mission, Mr. P. Werbrouck (Task Manager), Sr Agricultural
Economist; Mr. G. Ledec, Environmental Specialist, and four consultants: Mr. L. Ortfz Lopez,
Mr. M. Franssen, Mr. G.Barnes, and Mrs. S. Raswant. Mr. M. Guadagni, Ms. Anne del Castillo,
Mr. M. van Nieuwkoop and Mrs. G. Sakata assisted with the production of the report. The advisers/peer
reviewers were: Mr. Binswanger, Ms. Lausche, Mr. Hassan-Hassan and Mr. Oliver. The Division Chief
is Mr. Nicholas Kraffl and the Director is Mr. Yoshiaki Abe.



- 2 -
Table of Contents
Page No.
4. THE PROJECT ............................................................            18
A. Project Objectives and Scope .18
B. Project Description               ..20
I. Reform of the Legal Framework .20
II. Land Management Improvement - Cadastre .23
III. Identification of Land for Settlement .25
IV. Strengthening of the Property Registry .25
V. Strengthening of INTI .25
VI. Title Regularization - Cat-San .26
VII. Land Settlement Program .28
VIII. Legal Cadastral Registry .29
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .30
A. Project Costs .30
B. Proposed Financing Plan .31
C. Financial Implications for Government .32
D. Procurement .32
E. Disbursement .34
F. Auditing and Accounts .37
6.. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .37
A.  Management ..........................................................          37
B.  Project Implementation .........................................................  39
C.  Project Monitoring and Supervision .........................................................    40
7. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT,
WOMEN AND POVERTY ............................................................   42
A. Project Benefits .42
B. Risks .43
C. Environmental Aspects .44
D. Gender Impact .46
E. Poverty Alleviation .46
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...............................................  47



- 3 -
Table of Contents
Page No.
ANNEXES
1 -        Letter of Government Land  Policy   ....................................................                                ..     49
2  -        Summary  of Proposed  INTI Law  ....................................                                 ..................        60
3  -        Summary  of Proposed  Cadastre and Registry Law   ......................                                  .................    64
4  -        Terms of Reference of Land Policy  Analysis Unit .........................                                 ................    66
5 -        Proposed Cat-San, Cadastre and Registration Process ..................................  67
6  -       Land  Settlement Policy  ......................................................                                                 78
7 -        Environmental Analysis ......................................................                                                  80
8 -        Project Costs ......................................................                                                            84
9 -        Disbursement Profile ......................................................                                                     89
10 -    Implementation Plan ......................................................                                                         90
11  -       Technical Assistance and  Consulting  Services ........................................ ......                                 99
12  -       Documents on Project File ......................................................   103
MAP:
IBRD 26500 - National Land Administration Project






BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The Republic of Bolivia.
Implementing Agencies:          The Intervention Commission/Land Institute and the
Property Registry/Legal Cadastre Registry.
Beneficiaries:                  The Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment and the Supreme Court.
Poverty:                        Not applicable.
Amount:                         SDR 13.7 million (US$20.4 million equivalent)
including up to SDR 1.3 million to be financed
retroactively.
Terms:                          Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:                 0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                 See para. 5.2.
Net Present Value:              Cost minimization principle.
Map:                            IBRD No. 26500.
Project Identification Number:   BO-PA-6197






BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
1.          The weak legal, institutional, and technical framework of Bolivia's land
administration system was identified in the late 1980s and reported in various sector
studies and Staff Appraisal Reports. Land Administration has also been a regular theme in
the policy dialogue between the Bolivian Government and IDA. In July 1992, IDA sent a
mission to analyze the land tenure issues in particular the granting of public land in parcels
far exceeding the grantee's exploitation capacities. The mission reported on the increasing
land insecurity in the Eastern Lowlands because of overlapping titles and poor
performance of the land institutions. An agreement was reached on the need to design a
comprehensive solution for Bolivia's land administration system.
2.          In November 1992, Government decided to start clarifying the land tenure
situation by suspending the operations of the National Commission of Agrarian Reform
(CNRA) and the National Colonization Institute (INC) which were in charge of land
reform, titling and land settlements. It introduced a moratorium on the distribution of
public land and created the Comisi6n de Intervenci6n CNRA-INC (CI), inspecting the
operations of CNRA and INC and carrying out some of their mandate. CI has started to
overhaul the entire land legislation, draft legal reforms, work on the backlog of the past
land titling programs, and design a land settlement policy. A specific request for IDA
support followed in February 1993. CI's establishment has been largely financed through
reallocation of proceeds of the Development Credit 21 19-BO. In mid-1993, additional
funding from the Japanese Trust Fund was approved to finance preparation of the
proposed project, including implementation of a pilot cadastral project.
3.          An IDA pre-appraisal mission visited Bolivia in April 1994. It was
followed by an appraisal mission in July 1994 and a follow-up mission in November 1994.
Negotiations took place in March 1995.






1. BACKGROUND
A. The Macro-Economic Situation
1.1         Faced with a severe economic crisis in de mid-1980s, Bolivia was one of
the first countries in Latin America to adopt a far reaching economic program aimed at
restoring price stability and restructuring the economy. The economic reform program
combined comprehensive structural reforms with tight monetary policy and a program to
reduce debt and debt service payments. This has resulted in restoring price stability and
economic growth-real GDP growth has been an annual four percent in recent years.
1.2         Bolivia's economy remains fragile. The 1994 fiscal deficit-3.2 percent of
GDP-was, however, significantly lower than the 1993 deficit. The external position
remains weak--although the 12-month current account deficit (after official transfers)
decreased to 5 percent of GDP in 1994. Moreover, Bolivia remains vulnerable to
exogenous shocks-most importantly changes in external aid and in international
commodity prices.
1.3         The modest economic growth achieved in the past five years has not
significantly reduced poverty levels. Over half of the population remains poor and the
poverty gap has widened. The modest growth level can in part be explained by a decade-
long decline in the net accumulation of capital stock. While private investment has
recovered it remains at a modest level of seven percent of GDP. Public investment has
been relatively high--about ten percent of GDP--yet to a large extend, resources have been
poorly allocated and invested inefficiently.
1.4         The new Government came into power in August 1993 and is committed
to macroeconomic stability and a set of reforms intended to accelerate growth and reduce
poverty. The Government has acted aggressively--and so far successfully- to correct the
fiscal equilibrium which emerged in 1993. The inflation rate has declined from 10 percent
in 1993 to 8.5 percent at the end of 1994.
B. The Natural Resources Base
1.5         Land Area. Bolivia's territory covers 1.1 million km2. It is divided into
three distinct agro-climatic regions: the highland plateau (Altiplano) in the west, the inter-
Andean Valleys (some semi-arid, some humnid) in the center, and the flat tropical
Lowlands in the East. During a census in 1984, 20 percent of the land (22 million ha)
were identified having an owner. Of those lands, more than nine million ha are forest,
about 11 million ha are natural grasslands, and two million are cultivated or fallow. Good
agricultural land is relatively scarce and is found mainly in valley bottoms, lakeshores and
alluvial plains. Various sources indicate that forests and woodlands comprise roughly 50



-2 -
percent of the country's territory, and grasslands another 30 percent. Large areas are
suitable for livestock raising.
Table 1: Land Use
In hectares   Cultivated     Fallow     Forest      Natural        Total
Land         Land                 Grasslands
Uplands              488,284     322,782   272,644      1,355,810   2,439,520
Valleys              331,830      78,760 1,284,903        571,581   2,267,074
Lowlands             543,019     450,778 8,116,158      9,097,465  18,207,420
Total Bolivia      1,363,133     852,320 9,673,705     11,024,856  22,914,014
Source: Censo Nacional Agropecuario 1984
1.6         Population. Bolivia is a sparsely populated country (6.4 million people or
6.4 inhabitants per km2). The population has a great cultural diversity that encompasses
several ethnic groups and languages shaping a society marked by sharp contrasts. The
country's rural population is concentrated in the Andean regions. With 38 percent of the
land area, the Highland Plateau and Valleys account for 71 percent of the people
(Highland Plateau 45 percent, Valleys 26 percent). The Lowlands have extremely low
population densities. The uneven distribution of the population brings the country's
natural resources under pressure. Concentration of rural families in the more favorable
areas of the Highland Plateau and the Valleys has led to overexploitation. As a result,
vegetative cover has been lost, wind and water erosion has accelerated and soil fertility has
declined. There are very few remaining forests in those areas, with the exception of the
humid tropical valleys. By contrast, with a rural population of only half a million people
and an area of 60 million ha, the Lowlands have considerable agricultural, livestock and
forestry potential. According to a recently completed land use plan, the Department of
Santa Cruz alone has some four million ha of good agricultural land, out of which only
0.6 million ha are cultivated. Several million hectares are available for extensive livestock
raising.
1.7         Agriculture. Agriculture comprises a very poor traditional subsector
located mainly in the Highland Plateau and Valleys and a modem subsector coexisting
with small-scale traditional farmers located in the tropical Lowlands.
1.8         Contribution to GDP. In terms of contribution to GDP and employment,
agriculture is an important sector of the Bolivian economy. In 1992, it accounted for
20.4 percent of GDP and employed 45 percent of the labor force. Legal agricultural
exports have fluctuated between US$160 million and US$230 million over the last few
years, representing between 20 percent and 25 percent of the country's total export
earnings. The sector has been growing at a modest 1.5 percent in real terms since 1987,
following the liberalization of the economy in the mid-80s. This modest growth was
mainly generated by the modem subsector which seized the opportunity presented by the
stable economy and oriented most of its new investment towards exports. Area expansion
through land clearing, especially for soybean production in the Lowlands, has been



- 3 -
especially important during that period. By contrast, the traditional sector did not respond
as anticipated to favorable price adjustments, because of the lack of growth potential and
markets, lack of technologies adapted to the extreme climatic conditions and the absence
of support services, including rural infrastructure and agricultural extension.
1.9          Traditional agriculture accounts for 65 percent of agriculture's gross value
of legal production and is concentrated on small farms (usually less than five ha, called
minifundios). It is practiced under harsh climatic and environmental conditions with
rudimentary technology and minimal Government support. On the Highland Plateau,
conditions are especially severe with high risk of crop failures due to drought, hail and
frost. Maize, potatoes, barley, and quinoa cereals are the most important crops. In the
Valleys, conditions are more favorable, and intensification is possible with irrigation.
Overall yields have remained unchanged in the past twenty years and income from crops is
insufficient to cover basic necessities. Consequently, most rural families have diversified
into cottage industries, seasonal migration and petty commerce, and have tried to develop
links to the urban economy. Despite these additional sources of income, traditional
farmers are amongst the poorest, and have been largely bypassed by the country's
development and modernization.
1.10         Modern agriculture comprises medium and large holdings, ranging from 50
to tens of thousands of ha, geared to the production of export and some import
substitution crops, cattle and timber. These holdings practice mechanized agriculture,
extensive livestock raising and/or hold vast extensions of land for future development.
The main exported commodities are soybeans and timber. In recent years this sector has
shown considerable dynarism and growth potential.
1.11         Farm Structure. According to in the 1984 agricultural census, there are
314,600 farms covering almost 23 million hectares (including livestock pastures). The
size of about 70 percent of the farms does not exceed five ha. These small farms cover
only 1.5 percent of the total farm area. At the other end of the spectrum, 1.5 percent of
the holdings occupy about 70 percent ofthe farm area.'
1.12         Forest Potential. The Lowlands also boast one of the world's largest
tropical forest areas (45 million ha). These areas are very rich in biodiversity. For most of
Bolivia's history, these forests were a distant, inaccessible, and extremely unpopulated
place. This started changing in the 1950's when improved road links and the development
of the oil industry in Santa Cruz triggered a process of dramatic changes. The influx of
physical and human capital that followed led initially to the development of livestock and
agriculture, and later to the development of an export-led forest industry.
1.13         Land Tenure. The recent development trends and the prospect of
improved transportation in the Lowlands has led to significant competition among
I     However, these data exaggerate somewhat the land concentration since not all thene lands arm
comparable. Land-use potential and access to inrastmcture should also be taken into account



-4 -
Table 2: Farm Structure
Class Size (Ha)     Number        Cumulative        Surface       Cumulative
Percentage        alIa          Percentage
< 0.5                 58,319             18.5         21,368              0.0
0.5-5                156,118            68.2         260,769              1.4
5-20                  57,878            86.6         516,285              3.7
20-100                30,125            96.1        1,213,018             9.1
100-1,000              8,176            98.7       1,268,673             19.9
1,000-2,500            1,997            99.4       3,100,823            33.6
2,500-5,000            1,301            99.8       3,999,020             51.3
> 5,000                  686            100.0     11,047,809            100.0
TOTAL                314,600                      22,670,152
Source: Anuario Estadistico del Sector Rurl, 1993.
different groups who claim rights to the region's land use and ownership. The main actors
in this struggle are: (a) the logging industry; (b) land title holders; (c) large-and small-
scale farmers; (d) environmental groups concemed with the protection of forests and
biodiversity; and (e) indigenous people.
1.14         Current land distribution among these is characterized as follows:
(a)   protected areas: Bolivia has nearly ten percent of the country's
surface area set aside in national parks, wildlife reserves, biological
reserves, or other categories of protected areas;
(b)  forest reserves: there are some 29 million ha in forest reserves
(30 percent of the area) of which 21 million are under timber
concessions. Many of these properties' boundaries overlap with
combinations of public and private ownership. For instance: some
publicly-owned forest land has been granted to individuals by one of
the titling agencies; several production forest reserves overlap with
national parks; forest land may be private, but the trees belong to the
State and may have been granted in logging concession to a third
party2;
(c)   agricultural land: cultivated agricultural lands are estimated to be
about two million ha. Potential agricultural land area is estimated at
five million ha3. The widespread perception is that almost all this
2     Of the 21 million ha under concession, it is thought that about 16 million ha are on land
for which a private title has been given.
3     Source: Secretarta Nacional de Ganaderta, Estrategia de Desarrollo Agropecuaria,
Annex 1, 1.3.



agricultural land is being claimed by the private sector. There appears
to be few public land available in the Lowlands for future land
settlements to spontaneous migrants; and
(d)  indigenous territories: the expansion of economic activity has created
conflicts over land and forests resources between new settlers, the
logging industry, and the indigenous population. The latter comprise
about 40 small groups, widely dispersed across the entire Lowlands,
totaling about 130,000 people. Until recently, the rights of these
communities had been largely ignored.
1.15        Sustainability of the Natural Resources. The rapid growth of
agricultural, livestock, and forestry activities has raised increasing concerns about natural
resources degradation, primarily deforestation, extinction of timber species (e.g.,
mahogany), soil erosion, fertility decline, and loss of biodiversity. The impact of
agricultural and logging activities on the welfare of the indigenous peoples in the
Lowlands has also become a source of major concern. Effective demarcation of protected
areas and indigenous territories, development of land use plans to classify different areas,
and introduction of environmentally sustainable agricultural practices are today priorities
to improve overall natural resources management in the region.
C.   Present Land Administration
1.16        The present Land Administration includes the following functions:
(i) titling; (ii) maintenance of a cadastre; (iii) land registration and land information
management; and (iv) acquisition of land for new settlements.
Land Titling
1.17        Titling is the initial granting of land to private owners. In the past, CNRA
and INC were responsible for land titling. CNRA had jurisdiction over the entire country,
while INC had jurisdiction over legally defined settlement areas, thereby overlapping with
CNRA. Lack of coordination between these two agencies and absence of a geographical
backup of the titling process often gave rise to overlapping titles or proliferation of
multiple titles to the same parcels. The cadastral agency in Santa Cruz has attempted to
produce a consolidated map of land ownership based on property descriptions registered
in the cadastre. The map reveals overlapping claims on some 40 percent of the land. The
situation on the ground is yet another reality, which has only remote resemblance with the
legal records.
1.18        The titling process in Bolivia has been notoriously slow and cumbersome,
except for people able to find their way through the administrative maze. Titling
procedures have been highly centralized and conducive to administrative irregularities,
contained an excessive number of steps, and involved high cost and completion times. On
average it took CNRA and INC respectively 12 and 7 years to process a land title. This



-6 -
state of affairs has been most detrimental to the small beneficiaries of the land reform,
while very large lots were sometimes titled very quickly. The backlog of the 40-year old
land reform titling program is only now being cleared.
1.19        The proliferation and inconsistency in the land titles, and lack of recording
and updating in the Property Registry are main problems. The consequences are most
severe in the area of expansion of the Eastern Lowlands, where they are a source of tenure
insecurity depressing land values, causing a reluctance to invest, encouraging extensive
land use, and accelerating expansion of the agricultural frontier. In the traditional areas of
the country, where community organizations are strong, tenure insecurity is less prevalent.
The cohesiveness and internal organization of these communities means that land holding
within the community is tightly controlled and limited to recognized members of the
community. Land disputes are therefore much less frequent than in the Lowlands and are
resolved through community mechanisms. Hence, local disputes are not the main source
of insecurity among traditional farmers and their interest in holding reliable titles.
Traditional farmers perceive the need to set the official records straight.
Cadastre
1.20        A cadastre is a complete graphic record (cadastral mosaic) of all parcels in
a jurisdiction. A distinction has to be made between a fiscal and a legal cadastre. A fiscal
cadastre surveys and records information describing the geographic dimensions of
property parcels. The fiscal cadastre is not necessarily very accurate as it records only
information useful for property assessment. The legal cadastre surveys and records
information describing the geographic dimensions of property parcels very accurately, as
well as the nature of the land rights and the holders of those rights.
1.21        There exists no legal cadastre in Bolivia, but there are fiscal and rural
cadastres. The urban areas have a fiscal cadastre, administered by the Municipalities under
the guidance of the National Direction of Urban Cadastre (Direcci6n Nacional de
Catastro Urbano, DNCU). The Military Geographic Institute (Instituto Geogr4fico
Militar, IGM), which is in charge of the country's geodetic control network and the
production of maps. IGM merely registers rural properties and sometimes collects certain
taxes. In practice however, 16 IGM regional offices have had very few resources to carry
out this work. Although they have done some mapping of individual parcels, they have
not created comprehensive, up-to-date records of land parcels in any jurisdiction. As a
result, no information on the topographic position of the parcels is acquired and they
cannot be placed accurately on a map. Records of the boundaries of protected areas are
also inaccurate. Attempts to put all those maps together show overlap and gaps.
Registry
1.22        Registration is the process of entering in official records a set of legal
information which describes the holders of the land rights, the nature and basis of these
rights, as well as spatial information regarding the area, geographic location, and parcel
dimensions. The process of registration includes new title registration, but more



- 7 -
importantly it also involves the recording of any transaction that modifies, extinguishes or
creates tenure rights. Hence, once land records (the legal cadastre) have been created,
registration is essential for their long term maintenance.
1.23         The Property Registry (Derechos Reales, DDRR), a dependency of the
Supreme Court, is responsible for registering urban and rural property. The present
registry has a rudimentary registration of deeds system in which contracts and documents
of conveyance are recorded. This inscription in a public office is designed to provide
security to landholders against third parties by publicizing land transactions. DDRR's
operation and management, however, has not evolved since its establishment in the
beginning of the century. Registration is slow and inefficient. Departmental Registry
offices are independent from each other and report directly to the Supreme Court. The
Court takes decisions on registry matters in full session.
1.24       Only a small portion of rural titles issued over the last 40 years have been
registered. Similarly, land transactions are not systematically registered. Hence, the
Registry is far from complete. Moreover, registered titles may not correspond to the
actual delimitation of the property as the linkage with the rural cadastre is very weak, and
the cadastre itself is unreliable. Reasons for the low percentage of registered titles can be
attributed to the following: (i) over-centralization of DDRR offices creating accessibility
problems for small farmers; (ii) lack of appreciation for the security that registration
provides against third parties; (iii) high costs associated with time spent and fees/taxes that
have to be paid as part of the registration process; and (iv) absence of a legal cadastre.
Settlement Programs
1.25         Settlement efforts go back as far as the early 1950s and were thought to
serve three purposes: (i) expand agricultural production; (ii) alleviate population
pressures in the Highland Plateau; and (iii) dilute isolationist tendencies within the Santa
Cruz region. These objectives have somehow been met, although sometimes at high
financial costs. After the Government-directed settlement approach failed, INC lost
support from external funding agencies and was unable to get domestic budget support.
Consequently, INC adopted a more modest approach towards settlement programs.
Financially ambitious projects, which characterized the 1970s, were abandoned and
paternalism was replaced by individual initiative. Later interventions have been in support
of semi-directed land settlements, with INC responsible for the titling of land, and, funds
permitting, providing some basic infrastructure. These schemes have had better results.
Today, however, as the majority of settlement takes place spontaneously, there is little
control that this process is in accordance with land capabilities and environmental
concerns.



-8 -
2.  THE PROPOSED LAND REFORM PROCESS
A.    Legal Framework
2.1          Bolivia's current land legal framework is based on the Agrarian Reform
Law of 1953, which was formulated to support the transfer of large private domains to
peasants in the traditional agricultural areas of the Highland Plateau and the Valleys. At
that time, Bolivia had a very skewed land distribution pattern, with four percent of the
landowners controlling more than 82 percent of the land. CNRA redistributed large
private properties (latifiadios) in small lots to peasants, and distributed most public land
(tierrasfiscales) to much larger and fewer beneficiaries. Overall, CNRA's records show
that it re-allocated some 45 million ha or 40 percent of the country's territory over a forty
year period.
2.2          Inadequacy of the Legal Framework The present legal framework is
inadequate to deal with Bolivia's present agrarian problems and has led to many
constraints to agricultural growth and natural resources management. The current
legislation fails to acknowledge the current heterogeneous nature of the land tenure
structure. Excessive restrictions on land transactions (i.e., sales, tenancy, inheritances,
subdivisions)--although quite frequently ignored--have led to rigidities in the land market
and consequent inefficiencies in resources allocation. Free allocation of public lands has
led to a very uneven land distribution pattem. As a consequence of an arbitrary land
allocation policy, and in conjunction with grossly inaccurate mapping of the titles issued,
double titling, superposition of conflicting rights (between farmers, ranchers, indigenous
peoples, forest reserves, national parks, etc.) has created widespread tenure insecurity in
the Lowlands. Superposition of conflicting rights has made it increasingly difficult to
design and implement a sound natural resources management strategy. The reversion4
provision introduced as a means to enforce the fundamental concept of "working the land"
as the criteria for establishing property rights, has had the unintended consequence of
aggravating tenure insecurity in conflict areas. The legislation also fails to recognize the
role of communal organizations in defining property rights, preserving tenure security, and
resolving conflicts. The historical rights of indigenous peoples in the Amazonian Basin
and the Chaco region have not been effectively preserved.
2.3          Need for Reform of the Land Legislation. There is a consensus in
Bolivia that the Agrarian Reform Law has outlived its primary purpose of eliminating
latifundio. Instead, the inadequate institutional set up to carry out the Agrarian Reform
was ill-used to give away enormous amounts of public lands to individuals. This process
created incentives for significant land speculation and other distortions in the rural land
markets. Findings from literature suggest that the productivity differential favoring small
and medium-sized family farms over large ones tend to increase with differences in size.
4     Reversion had perverse effects because whoever initiated the process could apply for
ownership of the same land. Renting out one's plot could be used as reason for claiming
abandonment by the legitimate owner and for initiating the reversion process.



Hence, a negative relation between farm size and productivity is likely to exist in Bolivia.
A more equitable land distribution would not only be desirable from a social point of view,
but that also efficiency gains can be realized by pursuing this goal. Removing distortions
in rural land markets and creating effective mechanisms (including Government support)
to facilitate access of small farmers to land are the major challenges for the formulation of
a new land policy framework underlying the establishment of an improved land
administration system. In addition, the removal of land insecurity is likely to encourage
longer- term investment in land and the introduction of more sustainable farming systems.
B. Government Land Policy
Political and Institutional Context
2.4          In view of the problems with CNRA and INC--especially the discretionary
allocations of very large land areas and administrative irregularities--Government
suspended their activities in late 1992. The Comisi6n de Intervenci6n (CI), was set up to
investigate their past practices. At the same time, Government introduced a moratorium
on the allocation of public land for extensions in excess of 50 ha per beneficiary. In
March 1993, CI effectively took over some duties and prerogatives of INC and CNRA, as
a transitional arrangement pending the creation of a new land titling agency.
2.5          CI's present mandate covers the following: (i) to study the territorial
planning with respect to land use, the location, size and demarcation of the land areas
granted, consolidated and adjudicated by the State, the vacant land areas and areas
reverted to the State; (ii) to identify overlaps in agricultural, settlement and forest zones,
border conflicts, double titling and de-facto land possession; (iii) to establish irregularities
and illegalities in land acquisition in general; (iv) to propose laws and regulations to rectify
inaccurate situations; (v) to reorganize the offices of CNRA and INC; (vi) to provide
statistics on land allocation and titling since the initiation of the agrarian reform program
and the creation of INC, specifying its shortcomings; (vii) to continue with the titling of
ongoing land title requests; and (viii) identify, assess and reserve public lands for
distribution to small farners. CI has started examining previous grants, and, where
necessary, has recommended the annulment of titles. It is also reformulating Government
policy and institutional reforn for the land sector.
2.6          Bolivia's new Government took office in August 1993 and enacted two
major laws setting the framework for the reformn of land administration institutions and
processes. It created a Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment (Ministerio
de Desarrollo Sostenible y del Medio Ambiente, MDSMA), responsible for managing the
reform of land policies and institutions. CI reports to MDSMA. It also introduced the
Popular Participation Law, which creates 301 Municipalities and expands their jurisdiction
to include the rural areas. The law specifies that the Municipalities are responsible for the
administration of the fiscal cadastre.



- 10-
Land Policy
2.7          To redress the deficiencies of the current legislation and consistent with the
priorities of the Government, five key principles are likely to guide the creation and
management of the land institutions and the drafting of new land legislation: (i) tenure
security for all types of owners; (ii) equity in the access to fiscal lands; (iii) efficiency in
resources allocation; (iv) sustainability in natural resources management; and
(v) transparency in land administration. Land distribution policy will be part of a
comprehensive land use plan integrating various alternative resource uses such as
protected areas, indigenous territories and forestry concessions.
Strategy
2.8          The Government is committed to address the major shortcomings of the
current legislation by enhancing the present land administration system in anticipation of
the presentation to Congress of laws which would create a National Land Institute and a
Legal Cadastral Registry. It would also present to Congress a framework land law, that
will legislate the new Government policy with regard to property rights and the
distribution of public land. To this end, it has established a technical working group led by
CI to discuss key changes, consult with all interested sectors, and present a Government
proposal to Congress not later than December 1997. The Government has specified
publicly that the new land legislation will be based on broad popular consultations.
Proposed Reform of the Land Tenure Legislation
2.9          Government intends to pass a Land Law which will set the broad principles
of the new land tenure legislation, to be followed by detailed regulations, and several other
laws as required. The new laws will involve significant changes on the following aspects:
(i) less restrictive property rights (i.e., elimination of restrictions on land transactions);
(ii) a broader definition of the "social function" that owners need to fulfill in order to have
access to and preserve land property rights; (iii) a clear definition of the different types of
land owners, including the State, individuals, communities, and indigenous peoples; (iv) an
elimination of the current causes for reversion and the introduction of less cumbersome
procedures for reversion and expropriation (with compensation); (v) a re-definition of the
"peasant homestead" and "small property" protected from repossession and alienability;
(vi) an outline of the basic goals of the new land distribution and land settlement policy;
(vii) a definition of the economic incentives that will be used to address the problems of
mini.fundio and new latifundio; (viii) a definition of the principles that will guide
cost-recovery for infrastructure; and (ix) new procedures for regularization, land titling,
and conflict resolution.
2.10         The Government will continue the title regularization process for the land
settlements allocated in past years, and titles will be reverted if acquired without
respecting prevailing laws and regulations. It will use land recovered by such means as a
matter of priority for distribution to landless small farmers. Conflicts caused by



- 11 -
overlapping land rights will be resolved through a conciliation process. Where the land
market fails, the public sector will intervene to facilitate access to land by small farmers.
Problems of minifundio and new latifundio will be resolved through economic incentives.
Transfer of State property to the private sector for commercial purposes will be at market
prices through a transparent process. After title regularization is completed the grounds
for reversion and expropriation will be redefined and the procedures employed will be
amended. Keeping a natural forest cover in private lands will not any more be a reason for
reversion, if such lands contribute to sound forest management or biodiversity protection.
However, the principle of land reversion would be maintained as a penalty for leaving land
unproductive. The principle of expropriation (with compensation) by the State will be
maintained for reason of public interest.
Proposed Reform of the Institutional Framework
2.11         Parallel to the legal reforms, the Government decided to develop an
institutional framework which will enable effective implementation of the principles laid
down in the new land tenure legislation. The challenge is to define a new land
administration system which: (i) allocates public land through transparent processes and
for the benefit of the poor majority; (ii) creates the Rural Legal Cadastre; (iii) provides
incentives to the public to register their properties, thereby ensuring the maintenance of
the Legal Cadastre; (iv) enhances inter-institutional coordination including between land
tenure and land use zoning agencies; (v) takes into account the increased autonomy of
Municipalities as formulated in the Popular Participation Law; and (vi) effectively
integrates efforts aimed at designing and implementing Legal Cadastres in both rural and
urban areas.
2.12         Following these requirements a proposed structure for an Integrated Land
Administration System is presented in Figure 1. The pillars of the System would be the
National Land Institute (Instituto Nacional de Tierras--INTI), the Agrarian Courts and
the Legal Cadastral Registry (Registro Legal del Catastro-RLC).
2.13         National Land Institute. A draft law for the creation of INTI has been
prepared for presentation to Congress in late 1995. If the law passes, INTI would be the
only State entity in charge of land administration and responsible for: (i) public lands
administration, land titling, and planning and execution of land settlement programs;
(ii) resolution of some boundary/title uncertainties and conflicts; and (iii) development of
norms and policies with respect to the Rural Legal Cadastre.
2.14         Agrarian Courts. The proposed Agrarian Courts system, which would
operate independently from INTI, would include the National Agrarian Superior Court
and the Agrarian Courts at the Departmental level which would rule on land rights and on
the interpretation of the land legislation. In this way, the President of the Republic would
no longer have to directly participate in land conflict resolution.



- 12 -
2.15        Legal Cadastral Registry. The establishment of RLC will expand and
strengthen the functioning of the current Registry. It will guardian all legal information
(pertaining the names of the holders and the nature of their land rights) and all graphic
information on the property parcels. The inclusion of a cadastral map as part of the legally
recorded information will provide an unambiguous identification of each parcel. The map
will contain information on the parcel only, while the juridical database will contain
information pertaining to the owner. The connection will be made through the parcel
number which will be unique for each parcel (unique parcel identifier, or c6digo
cadastral). Thus the registry information will be referenced to the parcel (not the owner).
This parcel based registry system leads to a more rational information management, and is
consistent with trends around the world. The RLC law would govern the implementation
of these processes.
Figure 1: Proposed Land Administration Institutions
PRESIDENT
OF THE
REPUBLUC
MDSMA
SUPREME
COURT
CNRA       
jadvisory bodyIjl
reason, the RLC Lawwouldrenderregistratincompulsory.AlsRLC
|AGRARIAN|
COUTRTS
2.16        Maintenance of the Registry records would depend upon information on
land transactions (e.g., subdivisions, transfers) being reported to the Registry. For this
reason, the RLC Law would render registration compulsory. Also, RLC would be
decentralized to remove disincentives to Register (inaccessibility, high costs, processing
delays). To formalize transactions through the registry, RLC would receive the
information describing the transactions--usually a contract or deed-- and the cadastral
plan. The deed would be notarized by a private sector notary. The seller will also
contract the services of a cadastral surveyor if the transaction involves any boundary
changes. Relying on the private sector for notary and survey services will avoid the build
up of a large field surveying capacity within RLC.



- 13 -
2.17         It is expected that RLC would be part of the Judicial Power (Supreme
Court) where the current Registry is located.5 All RLC offices around the country would
be under the umbrella of a National Direction of the Legal Cadastral Registry (Direcci6n
Nacional del Registro Legal del Catastro, DNRLC). DNRLC or INTI would set norms
and policies guiding the registration process of rural, and eventually urban, properties in
the country.
2.18         The design of the proposed RLC will have the following advantages:
(i) the cadastre and registry are in the same office, facilitating consistent maintenance of
the register; (ii) the registration process is simplified for the user as (s)he only deals with
one institution; (iii) the registration function is separated from the taxation function, which
is now the responsibility of the Municipalities, thereby avoiding disincentives to register
property; (iv) the structure specifically provides for the eventual conversion of urban fiscal
cadastre to the legal cadastre by designating the RLC as the responsible institution; and
(v) the RLC structure will be designed to fit the frequency of property transactions, which
also leads to a better allocation of resources.
Legal Cadastre and Regularization Process (Cat-San)
2.19         The legal cadastre and the regularization process will be carried out at the
same time (Catastro con Saneamiento, Cat-San). Cat-San's objective is to provide a
reliable, up-to-date, authoritative record of existing tenure rights. CI will carry out a
review of existing documentation on land rights in an cadastral area as well as fieldwork to
identify defacto land tenure. The fieldwork will consist of a juridical component (land
rights) and a technical component (parcel boundaries). Contradictory information
between the documentation and the field situation will be resolved through a conciliation
process. To ensure legal value and updating over time, all the information from the legal
cadastre regularization process will be entered into the Registry at the initiative of the
Land Institute to be established.
Land Settlement Program
2.20         CI (and later INTI) would be the primary planning and executing agency of
the Government's land settlement policy, aimed at benefiting the poorest sectors of
Bolivian society and allowing farmers with little or no land in the Andean regions to have
access to unexploited farm lands. This function involves seven important activities: (i)
identifying remaining public lands and those subject to reversion; (ii) implementing a
screening process aimed--among others--at identifying land free of claims, suitable for
agriculture and livestock, and compatible with environmental criteria; (iii) applying the
legal procedures for reserving these lands for future land settlements to small farmers; (iv)
designing and executing technical baseline studies of these lands in order to orient their
future use by small farmers; (v) identifying potential beneficiaries and allocation of
5     Unless a law is passed that transfers responsibility for the Registry from the Judiciary to the
Executive Branch of Government, which is the more usual set up.



- 14 -
individual family plots according to predetermined and environmentally acceptable
criteria6; (vi) coordinating with various public and private organizations which will provide
basic services and infrastructure in the new settlement areas; and (vii) evaluating the
results of ongoing programs.
Municipalities and Land Administration
2.21         Municipalities, as defined by the Popular Participation Law, incorporate
both urban and rural areas. The initiatives to implement fiscal cadastres have been mainly
for urban areas with input from the Urban Cadastre. Since Municipalities now have
jurisdiction over rural areas as well, they may expand their tax coverage to include rural
properties. However, they do not have authority to distribute rural lands. The
Municipalities which cannot wait for INTI to implement the rural cadastre will be
encouraged to undertake it themselves. CI will provide guidance and set the minimum
standards for the municipal cadastre. This will ensure that the cadastre can be easily
integrated within the RLC system to form a legal cadastre. To obtain information on
current property owners, Municipalities will need to access DDRR or RLC's information
base. This can be done on a transaction basis (every registered transaction is immediately
reported to the Municipality) or periodically.
Land Use Zoning and Territorial Planning7
2.22         The land administration system will be developed in parallel with the new
framework for land use zoning and territorial planning. Land use plans (Plan de Uso de la
Tierra, PLUT) are to be prepared by each Department, within the norms set by the
Environment Secretariat within MDSMA. The Regional Development Corporations, in
charge of planning at department level, are responsible for preparing the PLUTs and for
administering them through a special unit which is to issue land use certificates. The
PLUT for Santa Cruz has already been forrnulated (with German assistance in the context
of Credit 21 19-BO). Land use coupled with land tenure information will be the basis for
territorial planning (Ordenamiento Territorial, OT). The objective of OT is to integrate
potential land use and land tenure for the purpose of planning development actions and
investments throughout the national territory. INTI's land information database will be an
important input into the process of territorial planning.
6     The allocation and titling of new family plots would be done by lNTI.
7      Land Use and Territorial Planning are supported by other donors and do not form part of
the proposed Project.



- 15 -
3.    IDA STRATEGY, EXPERIENCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
A. IDA Assistance Strategy
3.1         As the first stage of structural adjustment has matured in Bolivia, IDA's
strategy has shifted from economic reforms and social emergency programs to a "second
generation" set of reforms to address the remaining constraints to growth. The most
recent Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. P-6095-BO, dated January 5, 1994), and
presented to the Board on February 8, 1994, defines the main components of the reforms
which are designed to: (a) unbind the productive and export potential of the country's
most important natural resources--hydrocarbons and minerals--by providing a legal and
institutional framework which supports private investment, and by attracting private
management and capital into these sectors through the capitalization program;
(b) strengthen essential public institutions which define and enforce policy by
implementing programs such as civil service, legal/judicial, and land administration
reforms; (c) alleviate poverty through income enhancing and social projects, including in
particular improving the coverage and the quality of basic education; and (d) improve the
management of the country's natural resources and protect the environment, in order to
maintain growth in the long term and avoid degradation of renewable resources.
3.2         IDA's objectives for the agricultural sector is to support the Bolivian
Government in formulating a sectoral strategy, that is consistent with the above overall
country goals and assists with the implementation of new Government policies of
sustainable development and popular participation. The challenge of the new sectoral
strategy is to formulate and implement an integrated approach towards rural development
which simultaneously seeks to alleviate rural poverty, increase agricultural productivity
and improve natural resources management by taking into account the opportunities and
limitations of each of Bolivia's major agro-ecological zones. The two important pillars of
the IDA sector strategy are: (a) a proposed Rural Institutions and Infrastructure
Development Project, that supports the direct involvement of the rural people in the
identification and execution of local investments in support of the rural economy with a
primary focus in the traditional agricultural areas, but also including the new community
settlements of the Lowlands; and (b) the proposed National Land Administration Project,
designed to achieve a more efficient and transparent land administration system, clarify the
land tenure situation, identify public land suitable for small farmer settlements and promote
a more sustainable use of the country's land resources. These new operations would
complement ongoing projects, most notably: the Agricultural Research and Technology
Transfer Project; the Eastern Lowlands Natural Resources Management and Agricultural
Production Project, which supports land use zoning for the region; the Agro-Export
Development Project; and the Environmental Technical Assistance and Biodiversity
Protection Projects.



-16-
B. Bank Group Operations
3.3         Up to December 1994, IBRD and IDA lent to Bolivia a total amount of
US$1.28 billion of which about 50 percent (US$613.9 million) took place since 1987 and
95 percent was for investment lending. Of the total lending since 1987 natural resources
(agriculture, livestock, forestry and environment) took up 14 percent or US$83.3 million,
balance of payments support under structural adjustment 16 percent, public management
five percent, infrastructure 38 percent, education and health 18 percent, and industry and
private sector development nine percent.
3.4         In the natural resources sector, there are four on-going operations: The
Eastern Lowlands Natural Resources Management and Agricultural Production Project
(FY90 - Cr. 2119-BO), Agricultural Technology Development Project (FY91 -
Cr. 2216-BO), Agricultural Export Development Project (FY92 - Cr. 2322-BO),
Environment Technical Assistance Project (FY93 - Cr. 2443-BO). Moreover, IDA is also
managing a GEF-funded Biodiversity Conservation Project.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.5         The Project is fully consistent with three of the broad objectives of the IDA
strategy presented in the CAS (Report No. P-6095-BO and presented to the Board on
February 8, 1994): strengthening of essential public institutions, alleviation of poverty, and
better management of the country's natural resources. The project would strengthen land
administrations institutions and improve land management. Moreover, it would alleviate
poverty by providing land to landless peasants. Since 1992, IDA has maintained an intense
policy dialogue on land tenure and administration with the Government. First, it has
supported the Government in the suspension of CNRA and INC and in CI's establishment
as an interim solution. IDA has assisted CI's operations with technical assistance and
training for policy reform through several financing mechanisms such as re-allocations of
funds of Cr. 2119-BO and Japanese grant funds. Through IDA support the Government is
drafting new legislation and carrying out pilot cadastre operations, which will need further
expansion. The proposed project would improve the current land administration system
thereby facilitating its transition to a permanent integrated geographical and legal land
administration system as envisaged by the Government. The project would also prepare
the land institutions for the implementation of the legal reforms when introduced. Without
the project, the transitional system is likely to collapse thereby jeopardizing the
Government's genuine intentions to legally and institutionally reform the system. IDA's
unique role in contributing to the solution of these politically sensitive land matters makes it
the Government's ideal partner to strearmline the land administration. The Bank has also
gained substantial experience in land matters, both at the research and operational level,
and is, therefore, uniquely placed to assist Bolivia with the complex set of reforms and
investments which the proposed Project entails.



- 17-
D. Lessons from Experience
3.6         A recent review of Bank experience with land administration projects
indicates that in largely agrarian economies, such as Bolivia, land rights are an immensely
political matter. When a program involves some redistribution rights over land, political
opposition is likely to be intense unless compensation to those relinquishing those rights is
considerable. Second, the complexity of the land titling process has often been
underestimated. Land titling efforts have to commit considerable resources to institutional
development so there are sufficient technical and human capacities available for efficient
project implementation. Third, even with adequate capacity, there is no quick-fix to land
tenure problems. Improvements in this field can only be achieved on a long-term basis.
These lessons are being incorporated in the design of the project through initial support to
a first phase project, designed to obtain broad political approval for the reforms,
strengthen institutional capabilities, and address the pressing needs of conflict areas.
3.7         A review of experiences with land settlement schemes identified a number
of important lessons, which have been incorporated in the design of the Project. First, no
settlement programn can succeed without a clear tenure policy. Technical efficiency and
economic viability are best served by a program design that promotes individual land
holding through the issue of freehold titles or other long-term usufruct agreements.
Second, the size of the holding allocated to settlers is an important factor in attracting
them and determining agricultural incomes. Outcomes will be more successful if land area
allocations are in line with educational levels, agricultural skills and experience, the
available family labor force and those capital assets that allow land to be managed. Third,
there is massive evidence of success in association with settlement on good soils and in a
favorable climate. This points out the importance of proper site selection based on land
use plans. Fourth, excessive paternalism in scheme organization and administration on the
part of the administering agency and associated personnel should be avoided at all cost. A
great deal of evidence points to the conclusion that the emergence of strong, self-reliant
groups among settler communities is a vital ingredient in ensuring the sustainability of
settlement programs. Fifth, the emphasis that all infrastructure and social services should
be provided before settlers arrive and must be provided by the state is wrong. Safe water
supplies should be present when settlers move in, and roads should follow without much
delay. There appears to be a positive association between extension and agricultural
success. The provision of credit in general has a poor recovery record, except if strongly
linked to output marketing.
E. Environmental Issues
3.8         Deforestation, soil erosion, water pollution and loss of natural habitat are
the key environmental problems. Deforestation is estimated at a rate of 50 - 60,000 ha
annually because of farmer encroachment, road construction, migration and logging. Soil
erosion, a consequence of deforestation, drought, and overuse of land, affects 30-
40 percent of the total territory. Water pollution caused by household waste water and
industrial waste discharge, especially from mines, poses serious health hazards to a wide



- 18 -
cross-section of the population. Bolivia is also losing its unique flora and fauna resources,
mainly as a consequence of deforestation, contraband trade, and migration to the
Lowlands. Indiscriminate land clearing, road construction, poor management of land,
water and forest resources threaten the sustainability of agriculture, forestry and
biodiversity. Key constraints to improved environmental management include:
(i) inadequate policy, legal and regulatory framework for natural resources management;
(ii) weak institutional structures, along with the absence of clearly defined responsibilities
for environmental protection and management; and (iii) a lack of technical resources
management capacity.
4.    THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
4.1         Objectives. The project objectives would be to achieve a more efficient
and transparent land administration system, clarify the land tenure situation, identify public
land suitable for small farmer settlements and promote a more sustainable use of the
country's land resources. To achieve these objectives the project would help the
Government to formulate land administration and policy reforms, obtain accurate land
ownership information, carry out land studies, alleviate land conflicts and improve land
transaction registration.
4.2          Scope. The project would have a major component improving the land
administration system within the current framework and a minor component implementing
the legal and institutional land administration reforms, if and when they are introduced.
The major component would support the formulation of a sound and coherent land policy
and legislation, carry out land mapping on three million ha to obtain cadastre information
and to regularize the land tenure situation wherever possible, identify 500,000 ha suitable
for small farmer settlement and increase the efficiency and transparency of the land
administration system. In addition, the project would also finance: (i) title regularization
and land settlement programs by the National Land Institute, when established; and (ii) the
introduction of an integrated legal cadastral registry system when the Legal Cadastral
Registry is established.
4.3         Land Administration Enhancement would include:
(a)   Technical Assistance for the Formulation of a New Legal Framework
and Land Policy. This sub-component would provide: (i) consulting
services for the formulation of new laws and regulations on land tenure
policy and administration; (ii) technical assistance, goods and services for a
consensus building process on the proposed legal reforms; (iii) land policy
consulting services for the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment; and (iv) training to judges and other staff of the Agrarian
Court system (when established).



- 19-
(b)   Land Management Improvement and Cadastre. This sub-component
would provide the CI with technical assistance, equipment and cadastral
services and finance its operating costs to clarify and systematize the
country's land tenure situation by: identifying overlapping land titles on
three million ha mostly situated in four Departments (Santa Cruz, La Paz,
Cochabamba and Chuquisaca), continuing the land-titling process for
small-holders, systematizing land tenure information, and carrying out
teritorial planning.
(c)   Identification of Land for Settlement. This sub-component would help
CI to identify, reserve, and assess the suitability of 500,000 ha of public
lands available for distribution to small-holders.
(d)   Strengthening of the Property Registry. This sub-component would
provide technical assistance and training and finance civil works, equipment
and incremental operating costs of four Departmental Property Registry
Offices (DDRR - Derechos Reales) in Santa Cruz, La Paz, Cochabamba
and Chuquisaca to enhance their registration capacity in the rural areas in
which CI is operating.
4.4         Implementation of Legal and Institutional Reforms would include:
(a)   Strengthening of the National Land Institute (INTI). Upon its
establishment, the project would strengthen INTI by providing technical
assistance and financing operating costs to carry out the sub-components
mentioned below.
(b)   Title Regularization - Cat-San (Catastro - Saneamiento). This sub-
component would help INTI to regularize land titles in rural areas
including, among others, the resolution of conflicts between land holders,
titling and registration.
(c)   Land Settlement Program. This sub-component would help INTI to
provide titles to about 10,000 spontaneous migrant families on areas
identified by CI under the Land Management Improvement sub-
component.
(d)   Strengthening of the Legal Cadastral Registry (RLC). After RLC's
establishment, this sub-component would support the operations of an
integrated legal and geographical land registry.



- 20 -
B. Project Description
L Reform of the Legal Framework (Base cost US$400,000)
4.5         This sub-component would support the legal technical assistance necessary
to introduce the policy changes and institutional reforms described in the previous chapter
and outlayed in the Government's Letter of Land Policy (Annex 1). It would also provide
land policy consulting services for the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment.
4.6         Land Tenure Reform Legislation. The project would fund consulting
services for the revision of draft laws and regulations on land tenure reform. The laws and
regulations to be revised and fine-tuned include, among others: the INTI law, the RLC law
and the Land law. The project would also fund goods and services which would be
required during the process of national consultations. These goods and services include:
(i) travel; (ii) organization of seminars, workshops and conferences clarifying the content
of the Government policies embodied in these laws; and (iii) publicity campaigns. The
status of these draft laws and regulations, which have already partly been formulated
during project preparation, is described below (paras. 4.10-14).
4.7         Land Policy Studies and Seminars. A small advisory group of high-level
consultants or a Land Policy Analysis Unit (Unidad de Analisis de Polilicas sobre la
Tierra - UDAPTI) is expected to be established by MDSMA. UDAPTI would:
(i) conduct analytical studies on land matters (e.g., land tenure, land use, territorial
planning and natural resources management); (ii) formulate land tenure policy proposals;
(iii) support and monitor the on-going process of legal and institutional land administration
reform; and (iv) conduct seminars and workshops aimed at disseminating the results of its
analytical work among concemed institutions and interest groups in the country. The
advisory group would be composed of an economist, a lawyer, a natural resources
specialist, and a land tenure specialist. The project would finance: (i) consultants
specialized in land tenure issues during one year, including a natural resources specialist;
(ii) land tenure studies; (iii) seminars; (iv) office equipment; (v) office supplies; and
(vi) consultant travel costs. Terms of reference of the Unit are presented in Annex 4.
4.8         IDA has received a draft Land Policy Letter from the Government
presented in Annex 1. The Letter contains the principles and objectives of the land policy,
including the Government's intention to: (i) guarantee tenure security; (ii) promote an
equitable land tenure structure; (iii) introduce a transparent and efficient land
administration system; and (iv) encourage a more sustainable use of the country's natural
resources. The Letter describes the changes the Government intends to make in land
legislation including: (i) the concept of the socioeconomic function of land (for
agriculture, livestock, sustainable forest management, and biodiversity conservation);
(ii) the definition of types of rural property; (iii) land distribution policy and the principle
of free allocation of public lands to small-holders and indigenous communities and to
others at market prices; (iv) land markets regulation; (v) new forestry legislation; and



- 21 -
(vi) the causes and procedures for land reversion and expropriation. The Letter also
describes the proposed institutional reforms which include the creation of the INTI and
RLC and their respective roles as well as the role of CI before the establishment of INTI.
Moreover, the Letter provides: (i) the general guidelines for the title regularization
process; (ii) the land settlement policy for small farmers and indigenous communities; (iii)
titling procedures for indigenous lands; (iv) cost recovery principles under the title
regularization process; and (v) inter-institutional coordination.
4.9         The content of the above Letter and the timing of the proposed legal
reforms have been agreed upon during negotiations (para. 8.1). The main agreements
concemed: (i) CI's role before the establishment of INTI; (ii) the maintenance of the
moratorium on the distribution of land during the title regularization process; (iii) the role
of environmental screening in the identification of land for settlements; (iv) details on the
titling of indigenous lands; (v) the timetable for the presentation of legal reforms to
Congress; and (vi) criteria to resolve land tenure conflicts in the field ensuring that conflict
resolution procedures follow equity rules and do not create incentives for deforestation.
Reception by IDA of the signed final version of the Letter of Land Policy would be a
condition of project effectiveness (para. 8.3).
4.10        Law Establishing the National Land Institute (INTI). The draft law is
at an advanced stage of discussions within Government and with the active participation of
the stakeholders (peasant and indigenous groups and commercial farmer producer
organizations). The law is expected to be presented to Congress at the end of 1995
(Annex 2). The law would create INTI and make it the sole authority to distribute and
redistribute public lands and to carry out the cadastre and land title regularization in
accordance with Government policy. The law would establish new institutions for the
resolution of land disputes (Organo Jurisdiccional Agrario), including conciliation and
mediation mechanisms. Approval by Congress of this law would allow INTI to complete
the title regularization process (Cat-San) which would take five years. This period could
be extended as long as areas remain to be regularized. The process would lead to the
annulment of illegally acquired titles and the reservation of these lands for land settlement
to benefit small farmers. The project implementation plan establishes that Government
would fumish to IDA the draft INTI Law by September 30, 1995 and present it to
Congress before December 31, 1995.
4.11        The existing moratorium prohibiting the free allocation of public land for
other purposes than distribution to small farmers and reservation for indigenous peoples
and protected areas would not be lifted automatically with the approval of the INTI Law.
The Government would maintain the moratorium on the distribution of land in excess of
50 ha per parcel until the land regularization process is completed and areas have been
declared as "regularized", thereby gradually lifting the moratorium. It has been agreed
during negotiations that if the moratorium on the distribution of lands would be
lifted and if the Government decides to distribute public lands other than for small



- 22 -
agricultural and livestock holdings as defined in the 1953 Agrarian Reform Law8, it
would distribute such lands through sales in public auction (para. 8.1). New land
distribution criteria would be defined in the new Land Law. The Government would also
only distribute lands in accordance with existing land use plans (PLUT).
4.12         Land Law. The Government intends to start a participatory process of
discussing changes to the 1953 Agrarian Reform Law. Given the extremely sensitive
nature of the subject, the process of discussion within Government and with the numerous
interest groups is expected to be lengthy and its outcome uncertain. The main issues to be
considered in the new Land Law include: (i) implementing a new land policy taking into
account efficiency, equity, and sustainability criteria; (ii) clearly defining the types of
property rights, including those of indigenous people, communal systems and private
properties; (iii) formulating a new land re-distribution policy; (iv) removing existing
constraints on private land transactions for all but community lands; (v) creating
mechanisms for environmental screening of land settlement areas; and (vi) re-defining the
conditions for reversion of previously distributed land, except for areas not yet
regularized. The law would also consider introducing cost recovery principles for land
administration activities and distribution of public lands.
4.13         The project implementation plan establishes that Government would
fiurnish a draft Land Law to IDA not later than September 30, 1997 and present it to
Congress before December 31, 1997. The Mid-Term Review would analyze the progress
made in the enactment and the implementation of the Land Law, whose principles would
be in accordance with the content of the Letter of Land Policy.
4.14         Law of the Legal Cadastral Registry. A draft law has been prepared
(Annex 3). Refinement and clarification of some articles appears to be necessary.
Approval of the law would establish a land registry system taking into account the
geographical dimensions of land titles, integrating cadastre and registry. The law would
provide legal status to the legal cadastre and registry procedures, and allow regularization
of the existing property information after Cat-San has taken place. Approval by Congress
of the Legal Cadastral Registry Laws is expected to take place in 1997. In the meantime,
DDRR would be strengthened to be prepared to integrate the rural legal cadastre in the
registry system. The project implementation plan would indicate that the Government
would furnish a draft Legal Cadastral Registry Law to IDA not later than September 30,
1996 and present it to Congress before December 31, 1996.
4.15         Agrarian Court (Organo Jurisdiccional Agrario). The project would
also finance the training ofjudges and other staff of the Agrarian Court on substantive and
a     These maximum sizes for small holdings are: Highlands areas: North Zone: - 10 ha,
Central Zone - 15 ha, South Zone - 35 ha; Valleys: open valleys under irrigation - 3 ha, dry land
- 12 ha, other - 20 ha; Subtropical Areas: Yungas - 10 ha, Santa Cruz - 50 ha, Chaco - 80 ha;
Livestock Areas: 500 ha.



- 23 -
procedural aspects related to the resolution of land disputes brought before court.
Training expenditures (workshops, seminars, courses) are defined in para. 5.13. The
establishment of the Agrarian Court and institutional arrangements between
MDSMA and the Agrarian Court, satisfactory to IIDA, would be conditions of
disbursement of the training expenditures (paras. 5.12 and 8.3).
IL Land Management Improvement - Cadastre (Base cost US$13.3 million)
4.16          This sub-component would strengthen the National Intervention (CI) and
assist CI with the clarification and systematization of the land tenure situation.
4.17          Strengthening of CI. To increase CI's efficiency to carry out the title
regularization process and the land identification described below, the project would
strengthen CI by: (i) providing consulting services in administration, finance, land tenure
and other fields as IDA may agree; (ii) providing transport and office equipment, as well
as GIS-based land information systems; (iii) financing civil works for office rehabilitation;
(iv) providing training in land mapping, office management, land tenure regulations, and
other relevant subjects; and (v) financing a declining share of its incremental operating
costs9.
4.18          Clarification and Systematization of the Land Tenure Situation.
CI would clarify and put order into the country's land tenure situation by identifying
overlapping land titles, alleviating land conflicts, continuing the land titling process for
small-holders, organizing land tenure information, and contributing to territorial planning.
These activities would considerably improve the management of land resources in Bolivia.
These activities are also part of the Cat-San title regularization process as described in
Annex 5, and would be fully integrated into the Cat-San process when INTI gets
established.
4.19          To clarify the land tenure situation, CI has prioritized areas (3.7 million ha)
to be regularized on the basis of the following criteria: (i) frequency of land disputes and
demand for regularization; (ii) potential for finding available public lands for distribution
and private lands with good agricultural potential which could be reverted to the public
domain for re-distribution; (iii) areas with some geodesic and base mapping information;
and (iv) areas with planned infrastructure projects. A list of priority cadastre areas for
the first year of project implementation has been agreed upon during negotiations
(para. 8.1). The selection of other cadastre areas would be part of the yearly
implementation plans, to be submitted to IDA for review (para. 6.5).
4.20          After analysis of existing data in the office, CI would contract out the field
work to a specialized firm. The field work consists of a legal and a technical component.
9      Incremental operating costs are costs as defined in para 5.13 and include expenditures for
transport, office rental, office supplies, salaries of incremental staff, contract labor, utilities,
maintenance of buildings and equipment, field materials, travel costs and field allowances.



- 24 -
Legal members of the team would examine the nature of the existing rights in the parcel,
the identity of the rights holders, and the basis for the claims to such rights. They would
record the legal infornation on a cadastral card. Surveying engineers and technicians
would identify, demarcate and document property boundaries. They would record the
boundary information in a parcel plan and a cadastral map identified and referenced
through a unique parcel number. If conflicts arise during field work, CI would start a
conflict resolution process allowing field work to continue.
4.21        CI would compare the results of the office and field investigations. It
would exanmine discrepancies. CI would resolve the conflicts which can be resolved under
the existing legislation. Resolution of other conflicts would have to wait until the INTI
Law has been approved. CI would also continue to carry out the legal review of title
applications and compare them with information collected in the field. The information
collected by CI would also be used under the Cat-San operations (paras. 4.324.40).
4.22        To clarify the land tenure situation, CI would carry out aerial photography
on about 1.5 million ha. Combined with satellite imagery, aerial photography would give
a clearer picture of the land use and land occupation in the main conflict areas and provide
the basis for later conflict resolution.
4.23        Survey methodologies would be based on conventional methods
(tachometry/electronic distance measurement and the tape) and modem technologies (total
station and GPS). The pilot project, financed during project preparation, provides
relevant parameters to specify adequate strategies in using different techniques for the
cadastre. In anticipation of technological developments in topographic mapping, digital
cadastral base-maps would be introduced. Wherever necessary, aerial photography would
be carried out (see above) and a digital cadastral base-map on a scale of 1:20,000 would
be produced. Additionally, selective ortho-photo maps would be produced. The ortho-
photo-maps would be used to identify property boundaries which are difficult to access.
To provide a sustainable institutional framework to maintain mapping activities in the
future, the Military Geographic Institute (IGM) is expected to be involved.
4.24        To implement the above program, the project would finance: (i) aerial
photography and satellite imagery on about 1.5 million ha; (ii) topographical surveys and
land mapping on an estimated area of 3 million ha; (iii) consulting services in land
surveying, mapping, and cadastre management; and (iv) a declining share of the
incremental operating costs as defined under para. 5.13. Upon the establishment of INTI
to IDA's satisfaction, the Credit would finance the above activities under INTI.
4.25        The funds available under this project are not sufficient to cover all priority
areas, which include an estimated 6 million ha. The Government intends to contact other
financing agencies to finance the complementary cadastre survey work and aerial
photography. The Nordic Development Fund is one of the prospective financing agencies.



- 25 -
IIL Identification of Land for Settlement (Base cost US$1.4 million)
4.26         CI would identify, reserve and assess the suitability of 500,000 ha of public
land to be made available for distribution to small-holders. The land settlement program
aims at directing spontaneous settlers to areas suitable for agriculture and livestock
thereby diverting them from environmentally fragile lands. The project would support
CI's Land Settlement Division (Asentamientos Humanos - AAEH) which would: (i)
design the main features of the land settlement policy; and (ii) carry out the necessary
topographical and socioeconomic surveys, as well as soil studies to evaluate and prepare
these lands for settlement. The identification of land for settlement would include analyses
of land suitability in accordance with strict technical and environmental criteria, studies in
selected emigration regions and in potential settlement areas to assess suitability for
settlement; detailed studies on soil capabilities; infrastructure requirements; and marketing
constraints. Environmental analyses would determine whether: (i) soils in prospective
settlement areas are suitable for agriculture; (ii) areas do not include unique ecosystems or
areas important for biodiversity purposes; and (iii) areas are not located within regions
claimed by indigenous people. The project would finance: (i) land identification studies
and surveys; (ii) environmental analyses; and (iii) a declining share of CI's incremental
operating costs related to these activities as defined under para. 5.13.
IV. Strengthening of the Property Registry (Base cost US$1.3 million)
4.27         Organization and operation of the present Property Registry (DDRR) has
not changed since its establishment at the beginning of the century. Its present
administration is overly centralized, cannot cope with the increasing workload, and has
become inefficient. To enhance DDRR's capacity to register titles and land transactions in
the rural areas, the project would: (i) provide consulting services to improve the
organization and management of at least four Departmental offices (Santa-Cruz, La Paz,
Chuquisaca and Cochabamba); (ii) rehabilitate and enlarge offices of the Santa Cruz and
La Paz offices; (iii) provide office and transport equipment; and (iv) finance training and
study tours for key staff in land registration, mapping, and organization of a legal cadastre.
The design of the computer network would take into account possibilities to expand the
system into an integrated legal and geographical land registration system once the
Cadastral Registry is established. Upon the establishment of RLC to IDA's satisfaction,
the Credit would finance the above activities under the RLC component.
V. Strengthening of INTI (Base cost US$4.4 million)
4.28         The project would support the establishment of INTI, in accordance with
an agreed organizational structure (Annex 2) and briefly described here. INTI would take
over staff, equipment and other assets from CNRA and INC (currently functioning as CI).
It would have a central office with an Executive Director's Office, supported by a
Planning and an Intemal Audit Unit, a Legal Counsel, an Information Unit and the
following four divisions: (i) Geographic Information, in charge of the cadastre; (ii) Tenure
Regularization and Titling, in charge of titling and conflict resolution; (iii) Land



- 26 -
Settlements, in charge of land settlement programs; and (iv) Administration and Finance.
With the aim to decentralize responsibilities, INTI would have one office in each of the
nine geographic Departments, as well as regional offices on the basis of needs (16 are
planned). INTI!s Executive Director would report to an Executive Committee, chaired by
the MDSMA Minister, whose function would be to approve INTI's policy, programs and
budget.
4.29        Independently of MNTI, the Government would set up nine departmental
Agrarian Courts to solve land conflicts and disputes. Conflicts which can not be resolved
at the Departmental level, would be referred to the Superior Agrarian Court which would
take a final decision.
4.30        The INTI law would provide for an external commission (National
Agrarian Conmmission), with broad participation from all interested sectors (including state
agencies, peasants and indigenous organizations, commercial farmer organizations, etc.) to
serve as a forum for consultations on proposed policies and programs. INTI would have a
total of approximately 250 staff, of which about 150 would be in the field. Only 60
percent of the staff would occupy permanent positions within INTI, the balance being
contractual staff and consultants, hired to carry out punctual activities (title inspection,
regularization and legal cadastre). Apart from the INTI Director, executive staff would be
hired on a competitive basis. To ensure smooth implementation of the project
components under INTI, IDA would review the selection of INTI's divisional heads.
INTI would also study ways to integrate staff into the Civil Service program.
4.31        The project would finance: (i) consulting services in management,
accounting, land reform, and other fields as IDA may agree; and (ii) part of the
incremental operating costs as defined in para. 5.13. Unless otherwise agreed, IDA would
not finance more than 40 consultants at any one time. The establishment of INTI to
IDDA's satisfaction would be a condition of disbursement for the above consulting
services and incremental operating costs (para. 8.3).
VL Title Regularization - Cat-San (Base cost US$0.6 million)
4.32        The Cat-San Process (Catastro con Saneamiento). The objectives of this
component would be to resolve conflicts between land holders and to regularize and
register land titles. The process would consists of four steps.
4.33        Promotion of Cat-San. INTI would direct a publicity campaign towards
land holders in the cadastre area to inform them about Cat-San objectives, its benefits,
their obligations and the timetable. Wherever possible, local community leaders would be
involved in this effort.
4.34        Conflict Resolution. On the basis of a comparison of office and field
investigation results, INTI would examine discrepancies and decide on the legal character
of the land claims. Although many problems would be solved in the field, INTI would



- 27 -
establish rules governing its decision making on the claims. The basic rule is that 1NTI
would give priority to valid land possession and occupation even if this disagrees with
written documents. It has been agreed during negotiations that during the title
regularization process the Government would revert unproductive lands to the
public domain in accordance with the 1953 Agrarian Reform Law (para. 8.1). Aerial
photography would be used to establish a benchmark to determine whether lands were
being used productively or whether they were idle at a certain date. It has been agreed
during negotiations that detailed conflict resolution rules, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA, would be adopted by INTI (para. 8.1). In complex conflict
situations INTI would start a conciliation process on the basis of the above rules. If
conflicts can not be resolved, the matter would be brought to the Agrarian Courts which
would take a final decision.
4.35         Publication of Field Results. Once all conflicts are resolved, INTI would
publicize the list of current owners and claimants together with the cadastral map in a
public office in the most central town of the cadastre area. The objective of this exercise
is to obtain final input from landowners and claimants as to the veracity of the results.
4.36        Registration in DDRR/RLC and Issuance of Registry Certificate. The
process would end with INTI's declaration of a cadastre area (area catastrada) by issuing
a cadastral certificate to each beneficiary. Registration of the information on rights and
boundaries into the Registry which is expected to issue Registry Certificates to legitimate
owners for a fee.
4.37         To carry out this sub-component, the project would finance consulting
services and a declining share of the incremental operating costs as specified in para. 5.13.
The establishment of INTI and its adoption of the conflict resolution rules
(para. 4.34) in form and substance satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
disbursement for the above expenditures (para. 8.3).
4.38         Cost Recovery. Since commercial farmers stand to benefit most in the
short run from implementation of the legal cadastre, the issue of cost recovery is
paramount to meet the project's equity goals and generate public sector revenues. The
following principles would govern cost recovery: (i) larger land holders are to benefit
relatively more from the legal cadastre than small farmers and should therefore pay more
for the service; (ii) maintenance of the legal cadastre should be fully self-supporting and
sustainable; (iii) as an incentive to registering, cadastre fees should not exceed the payment
capacity of the beneficiaries; and (iv) partial cost recovery would be sought from the
Municipalities.
4.39         The most important cost recovery mechanism would be the one-time fee
charged to Cat-San beneficiaries. This fee would be collected when the cadastral survey
certificate is given to the owner at the end of the Cat-San process. This fee would not be
a land tax but a charge for the cadastral surveying service, the issuance of a certificate, and
for the increased valuation of the parcel. This one-time fee would be collected by INTI.



- 28 -
Medium and large holdings would have to pay the direct unitary costs of the survey and
titling costs. The fee would be on a per hectare basis, with an exclusion of the number of
hectares corresponding to the small property size as defined in the 1953 Agrarian Reform
Law, and then a declining schedule for different property sizes. The Municipalities would
also have to contribute to the payment of the fees. The fee schedule for each surveying
area would be determined separately, taking into account actual surveying costs and the
expected increase in property values. Moreover, all titling by INTI would require the
payment of an administrative fee. Finally, INTI would also sell information to the public,
in the form of maps, published statistics, technical reports resulting from various studies
and any other information related to land tenure and use.
4.40        The Government has worked out details of the cost recovery mechanisms,
which have been discussed during negotiations. It has been agreed during negotiations
that the Government would charge fees for cadastre surveys and titling services
performed in respect of medium and corporate agricultural holdings and medium
and large livestock land holdings as defined in the 1953 Agrarian Reform Law and
from the Municipalities in which these land holdings are located at a level sufficient
to cover Cl's and INTI's unitary direct costs for providing the services (para. 8.1).
The adoption of the agreed cost recovery mechanisms by INTI would be a condition
of disbursement of INTI expenditures mentioned under para. 4.31 (para. 8.3).
VIIL Land Settlement Program (Base cost US$0.5 million)
4.41        The land settlement program aims at directing spontaneous settlers to areas
suitable for agriculture and livestock. INTI would legally define and physically demarcate
land for settlement, orient new settlers to those areas and coordinate the design and
implementation of complementary infrastructure and services with relevant technical and
funding agencies (e.g., Social Infrastructure Fund and Small-Farmer Development Fund).
More details are described in Annex 6.
4.42        The land settlement process would be based on the following principles.
First, public land allocations through land grants (or sales) would follow existing land use
plans and, if necessary, supplemental soil suitability studies would be carried out. The
Land Settlement Manual would specify how soil classification of land use plans would
relate to the intended use (agriculture, livestock) of land allocations. Second, there would
be no settlements (or public land sales) in areas occupied by indigenous peoples or those
areas necessary for their livelihood. Third, allocation of public lands through land grants
would require an Environmental Impact Assessment to be approved by the National
Secretariat for Natural Resources of the MDSMA until a Negative List of environmentally
sensitive areas to be prepared by SNAP has been complete. Fourth, the parcel size would
depend on the soils, farming system, the cropping pattern, the level of technology and
marketing possibilities, but would be limited to the size of small properties as defined in
the 1953 Agrarian Reform Law with a maximum of 50 ha. New limits, based on soil
studies and land use plans would be incorporated into the new Land Law.



- 29 -
4.43        INTI would select beneficiaries on the basis of agreed criteria, including
poverty level, land possessions, family size, technical knowledge, etc. Candidates living
illegally in protected areas would have some preference. INTI would divide the area in
parcels, coordinate construction of basic infrastructure and provision of basic necessities
with other agencies and projects, provide the migrants with land titles, and organize (with
the help of other institutions or NGOs) orientation seminars on agricultural production
techniques, livestock production, basic health and other pertinent subjects.
4.44        To implement the above program, the project would finance:
(i) orientation and training of future colonists in basic agriculture and health in the tropical
lowlands; (ii) topographical surveys for demarcation and inscription of individual parcels;
and (iii) part of INTI's incremental operating costs as defined under para. 5.13.
4.45        AAHH would prepare an internal manual (Land Settlement Manual) which
would specify: (i) criteria and procedures for the identification of areas suitable for land
settlements; (ii) environmental safeguards, including the relation between land use
classification and intended use of land allocations; (iii) criteria for the selection of
beneficiaries; (iv) the Government's policy regarding land settlements, including methods
to coordinate assistance to supply settlers with basic infrastructure, health and agricultural
services; and (v) criteria and mechanisms used to determine basic land allocation units in
accordance with the principles outlined in para. 4.42. The content of the Land
Settlement Manual has been agreed upon during negotiations (para. 8.1). Adoption
by CI of a Land Settlement Manual including environmental screening procedures
and agreed upon by IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 8.2).
VIIL Legal Cadastral Registry (Base Cost US$2.3 million)
4.46        This sub-component would upgrade DDRR from a mere registry of
property rights to a fully integrated Legal Cadastral Registry. Integrating the cadastral
information into an improved and modernized version of the current Registry requires the
introduction of new organization, processes and techniques. A technical cadastre
department would be added to the Registry to examine all cadastral plans and ensure that
the geographic information entering RLC conforms with set minimum standards. The
legal department would continue to examine incoming documents, such as new deeds, and
address any legal questions that arise in a transaction in the registration process.
Automation technology would be introduced to link the juridical data base of the current
Registry with the graphical data base of the cadastre department. The latter would
computerize the information and maintain the databases that contain the cadastral and
registry information. This information would be managed by a geographic information
system (GIS).
4.47        This sub-component would help to establish RLC's National Directorate in
Sucre, as well as further improving the four Departmental RLC offices in the Departments
of Santa-Cruz, La Paz, Chuquisaca and Cochabamba, corresponding to the areas of
implementation of the legal cadastre. Additional offices may be set up at a more



- 30 -
decentralized level (e.g., Municipality or province) depending on the frequency of
transactions and the viability of establishing a permanent decentralized RLC office. In
order to make RLC's services more accessible to the general public, several local
collection offices would be identified. The offices of certain notaries and Municipalities
could serve in this capacity. Periodically the Departmental RLC would collect the deeds
and cadastral plans deposited with the notaries and Municipalities.
4.48        The project would fund: (i) the construction of a central office and the
rehabilitation and enlargement of the Cochabamba and Chuquisaca Departmental offices;
and (ii) part of RLC's incremental operating costs as defined in para. 5.13. Thereafter, the
RLC offices would be self-financing, since they would charge a fee for registry certificates.
The establishment of RLC and the signing of an implementation agreement between
MDSMA and the Supreme Court, both satisfactory to IDA, would be conditions of
disbursement of the above expenditures (para. 8.3).
5.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.1         The total project cost is estimated at US$27.2 million equivalent, including
taxes and duties. Base costs are US$24.2 million, and contingencies US$3.0 million. The
foreign exchange component is US$10.2 million, or 38 percent of project costs. Project
costs are estimated at November 1994 prices. The breakdown of costs by component is
shown in Table 4 and by type of expenditures in Table 5. Detailed cost tables are
presented in Annex 8. Physical contingencies are included at 10 percent of investment
costs (excluding technical assistance) and at five percent for technical assistance and
recurrent costs. Price contingencies (averaging seven percent of base costs) were
calculated on the basis of the following domestic and foreign exchange inflation rates:
Table 3: Annual Estimated Inflation Rate (%)
1995        1996         1997         1998
Local                        6.6         4.9          4.4          4.7
Foreign                      1.5         1.8          2.6          2.5
Exchange rate USSi =Bs       4.8         5.0          5.1          5.3



- 31 -
Table 4: Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
% of
(USS million)      FE    Base
Local Foreign  Total   %       Costs
A. Land Administration Enhancement
Technical assistance legal reform and policy       0.3     0.1      0.4   25         2
Land management improvement-Cadastre               6.2      7.1    13.3   54        55
Identificationoflandforsettlernent                 1.3     0.1      1.4    7         6
Strengthening of the Property Registry             0.8     0.5      1.3   38         5
Subtotal                                           8.6     7.8    16.4   48         68
B. Implementation of Legal and Institutional Reforms
Strengthening of the National Land Institute       4.4       -      4.4    -        18
Title Regularization - Cat-San                     0.5     0.1      0.6   17         2
Land Settlements                                   0.4     0.1      0.5   20         2
Strengthening of the Legal Cadastral Registry      2.0     0.3      2.3   13        10
Subtotal                                           7.3     0.5      7.8    6        32
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                              15.9     8.3    24.2   34        100
Physical Contingencies                         0.6     0.8      1.4   57         6
Price Contingencies                            0.5     1.1      1.6   69         7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS'                              17.0    10.2    27.2   38        113
Including duties and taxes of US$3.5 million.
B. Proposed Financing Plan
5.2         The Project would be financed by and IDA - Credit (US$20.4 million) and
the Government (US$6.8 million). The Government is also identitying other sources to
finance complementary activities.
Table 5: Project Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
IDA        Government       Total
A. Civil Works                      0.6            0.1           0.7
B. Equipment                        1.1            0.2            1.3
C. Training                         0.8            0.1           0.9
D. Service Contracts (Cadastre)     9.9            1.7           11.6
E. Consultants                      2.8            0.7            3.5
F. Incremental Recurrent Costs      5.2            4.0            9.2
TOTAL '                            20.4            6.8           27.2
l Including duties and taxes of USS3.5 million.



- 32 -
C. Financial Implications for Government
5.3         Recurrent Costs. At completion, the project is expected to generate
annual incremental recurrent costs of about US$2.3 million (1994 prices). A gradual
build-up of Government contribution towards these costs is included in the financing plan.
Cost recovery arrangements under the cadastre and land settlement components would
provide for additional revenues to meet part of this additional obligation of the
Government from the third project year onwards. It is the objective that in the medium-
tenn, cost recovery and administrative fees would generate sufficient revenue to cover a
large share of recurrent costs. The following table shows the Government contribution
and the estimated taxes and cost recovery revenues during the project period.
Table 6: Financial Implications for Government
(US$ million)
1996        1997        1998         1999
Government Contribution           1.6          1.7         1.7          1.8
Estimated Tax Revenues           - 0.7        - 0.9       - 1.0        - 0.9
Estimated Cost Recovery           0.0          0.0        - 0.3        -07
Net effect on Government Budget   0.9          0.8         0.4          0.2
D. Procurement
5.4         The table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs
and proposed methods of procurement.



- 33 -
Table 7: Procurement Methods
(Million US$)
Project Element                       Procurement Method
ICB    LCB       Other       Total
Civil Works                              0.4        0.3        0.7
(0.4)      (0.2)      (0.6)
Goods, Vehicles and Equipment   0.6      0.4         0.3       1.3
(0.5)    (0.3)      (0.3)      (1-1)
Training                                            0.9        0.9
(0.8)     (0.8)
Service Contracts              8.5       1.2         1.9      11.6
(7.3)    (1.1)      (1-5)      (9.9)
Consultants                                         3.5        3.5
(2.8)     (2.8)
Incremental Operating Costs                          9.2       9.2
(5.2)     (5.2)
TOTAL                           9.1      2.0        16.1      27.2
(7.8)    (1.8)     (10.8)     (20.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit
5.5         The project would finance procurement of vehicles and equipment, small
civil works, cadastre and consultant services, and incremental operating costs. All ICB
procurement would use IDA standard bidding documents, modified as necessary to meet
the requirements of the project. All LCB procurement would use standard bidding
documents to be agreed upon with IDA. Under Bolivian law, publicly funded contracts
estimated to cost more than 200,000 Bs (US$45,000) must be procured through one of
three international procurement agents under contract with the Government. Procurement
under the project would comply with this requirement. The procurement plan is presented
in Annex 10.
5.6         Civil Works. Contracts for civil works are expected to range between
US$10,000 and US$100,000 and are not expected to attract foreign contractors. LCB
would be applied for all civil works estimated to cost US$25,000 or more up to an
aggregate amount of US$400,000. Works which can not be packaged and are estimated
to cost less than US$25,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.3 million would be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at
least three eligible suppliers.
5.7         Goods, Vehides and Equipment. Contracts for vehicles, computer and
equipment estimated to cost above US$150,000 would follow ICB procedures. Goods,
vehicles and equipment ranging between US$25,000 and US$150,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.4 million would be procured foliowing LCB procedures acceptable to
MA. Furniture, training materials, supplies and other minor goods which can not be
packaged and are estimated to cost below US$25,000 equivalent per contract up to an



- 34 -
aggregate amount of US$0.3 million would be acquired on the basis of comparison of
price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers.
5.8         Service Contracts for Cadastre Surveys. Contracts for cadastral
services, including aerial photography, mapping and surveying services for cadastre
operations are expected to range between US$5,000 and 4 million. Surveying services are
mostly assignments of a straightforward technical nature. For the bulk of the cadastre
services exceeding US$150,000 per contract, a single cadastre works contractor would be
selected following a two-step ICB procedure. The first step would consist of an
international invitation to submit technical proposals to undertake cadastre works. The
proposals would be discussed with the bidders, who would be allowed to make
adjustments to the technical proposals as a result of these discussions and introduce these
in the second step. The latter step would consist of inviting those bidders to present
priced proposals based on revised bidding documents. In addition, smaller survey
contracts costing more than US$25,000 and less than US$150,000, which can not be
included in the above single responsibility contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.2 million would be procured through LCB. Minor contracts of less than US$25,000
and which can not be packaged because of their scattered and punctual nature and up to
an aggregate amount of US$1.9 million would be procured on the basis of comparison of
price quotations of at least three eligible suppliers.
5.9         Consulting Services. Consultants would be employed to assist CI,
DDRR, INTI and RLC with project implementation. Contracts would be awarded in
accordance with the 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The Bank's
standard form of contract would be used for complex, time-based assignments. For minor
assignments, standard documents would be agreed upon with IDA.
5.10        Review Procedures. IDA would conduct a prior review of each step in
the procurement process of the following contracts: (i) all contracts for works, goods,
and cadastre services exceeding US$150,000; (ii) the first contracts below US$150,000
for works, goods and cadastre services; (iii) all consulting contracts exceeding
US$100,000 for firms and US$15,000 for individuals; and (iv) all contracts, regardless of
the amount, based on single-source or of a sensitive nature related to legal reform and
environment. The above thresholds would result in a prior review of about 66 percent of
the total value of contracts financed under the Credit. All other contracts would be
subject to post-review in the course of supervision and by the auditors.
E. Disbursement
5.11        The IDA credit of US$20.4 million would be disbursed over a period of six
years, beginning in the first quarter of IDA FY96 through the end of the second quarter of
IDA FY2001. The project completion date would be June 30, 2001 and the closing date
would be December 31, 2001. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 9. The
disbursement pace is shorter than the historical disbursement profile for Bolivia's
agricultural projects (which is 7.5 years) as 70 percent of the project would be carried out



-35 -
by the private sector under the form of consulting and cadastre services contracts. The
disbursement pace, however, would also depend on the management capacity of CI,
DDRR, INTI and RLC and on the amount of preparatory procurement work carried out
before Credit effectiveness.
Table 8: Summary Disbursement Schedule
Category   Description                          Amount           IDA
Allocated      Financed
(%)
('000 US$) Foreign   Lcal
1          Civil Works
a)    for CI and DDRR                             300       84     84
b)    for RLC                                     300       84     84
2          Goods, Vehicles and Equipment             1,100      87      87
3          Training                                            100      84
a)    for CI and DDRR                             740
b)    for Agrarian Court                           60
4          Service Contracts                         9,000      84      84
5          Consulting Services
a)   for CI, DDRR, and MDSMA                    1,500  84% before 12/31/97
b)    for INTI                                  1,000  75% thereafter
6          Incremental Operating Costs
a)   for CI, DDRR and MDSMA                    2,000  87% before 12/31/97
b)   for INMl                                   1,500 75% thereafter
c)   for RLC                                     900
7          Unallocated                               2,000
TOTAL                                               20,400
5.12        The establishment of INTI to IDA's satisfaction, and the adoption by
INTI of: (i) the Land Settlement Manual; (ii) the internal procedures for the
resolution of land conflicts; and (iii) the Cat-San cost recovery mechanisms
acceptable to IDA would be a conditions of disbursement of categories 5(b) and
6(b)-consulting services and incremental operating costs of INTI (para. 8.3). The
establishment of RLC to IDA's satisfaction and the signature of the RLC
Implementation Agreement between MDSMA and the Supreme Court (para. 6.4)
would be conditions of disbursement of categories 1(b) and 6(c)-civil works and
incremental operating costs of RLC (para. 8.4). The establishment of the Agrarian
Court and institutional arrangements between MDSMA and the Agrarian Court
satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of disbursement of category 3(b).
5.13        Incremental operating costs would include expenditures for transport,
office rental and supplies, salaries of incremental staff, contract labor, utilities,
maintenance of buildings and equipment, field materials, travel expenses and field



- 36 -
allowances. Service contracts include services for aerial photography, land surveys,
mapping, land demarcation, publicity campaigns and other related services. Training
includes expenditures for trainers and trainee's fees, rental of conference rooms, per diem
and transport of trainees and materials required for the training activities.
5.14        Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all
expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by IDA and amendments to
contracts raising the value of such contracts above the prior review linits. These
contracts are: (i) all contracts exceeding US$150,000; (ii) the first contracts below
US$150,000 for works, goods and cadastral services; (iii) all consulting contracts
exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$15,000 for individuals awarded through
competition; and (iv) all contracts, regardless of the amount, based on single-source or of
a sensitive nature related to legal reform and environment. Moreover, full documentation
would be required for disbursement of salaries of incremental staff exceeding US$1,500
per person-month. For all other expenditures, disbursements would be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation would be retained by the
Project Administration Coordination Unit (UCAP) and would be available for inspection
during IDA supervision missions and by independent auditors.
Table 9: Documentation Requirements for Disbursements
Full Documentation       Statements of
Expenditures
AlU contracts                  >US$150,000               <US$150,000
Civil works                    First contract <US$150,000   All other
Goods and equipment            First contract <US$150,000   All other
Cadastre services              First contract <US$150,000   All other
Consulting contracts
Individuals              >US$ 15,000               <US$ 15,000
Finns                    >US$100,000               <US$100,000
Single source contracts        All amounts
Contracts of sensitive nature  All amounts
Training                                                 All
Salaries of incremental staff  >US$l,500 per             < US$1,500 per
person-month             person-month
Other incremental operating costs                        All
5.15        Special Account. The Borrower would open one project Special Account
(SA) at the Central Bank of Bolivia. The SA would have an authorized allocation of
US$1 million and would cover four months of project expenditures. The authorized
allocation would be limited to US$500,000 until the combined credit withdrawals have
reached US$3 million. Withdrawals from the SA would be done by the implementing
agencies under the overall coordination of UCAP, which would co-sign all withdrawals by
CL, INTI, DDRR and RLC. IDA would replenish the SA as requested on receipt of



- 37 -
satisfactory evidence that expenditures were eligible for financing from Credit proceeds.
Whenever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of not less
than US$200,000. UCAP would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures.
5.16        Retroactive Financing. Reimbursement of up to US$2 million equivalent
would be permitted for eligible expenditures made in accordance with procurement
procedures agreed under the project from January 1, 1995, provided that the Credit is
signed not later than December 31, 1995. If the Credit is signed at a later date, the initial
date for eligibility of expenditures for retroactive financing would be modified so that the
period covered by retroactive financing would be not more than one year. Retroactive
financing is recommended to ensure availability of consulting services and operating costs
for institutional strengthening and timely procurement of equipment and services.
F.    Auditing and Accounts
5.17        CI, DDRR, INTI and RLC would maintain separate accounts for project
expenditures. The agencies would hire independent auditors satisfactory to IDA to carry
out an annual audit of these accounts. The auditor's report would include the audit of the
financial statements, the Special Account and SOEs. In addition the auditors would
prepare a (long form) report on the management of the project. Copies of the audited
statements would be sent to IDA within four months after the end of the fiscal year. With
respect to SOEs, the auditor's reports would include an opinion (and comments and
recommendations, as necessary) on the methods employed in compiling the SOEs, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, their eligibility for financing under the
terms of the Credit agreement, the standards of record keeping and internal controls
related to the foregoing. Auditing and accounting arrangements have been agreed
upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).
6.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Management
6.1         Project Management. Overall responsibility for project planning and
implementation would be vested in the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment. CI and later INTI would be responsible for the day-to-day project
management and for the implementation of all project components, except: (i) the Land
Policy Analysis Unit operating directly under the Minister of Sustainable Development and
Environment; and (ii) DDRR and RLC's institutional strengthening components
implemented under the Supreme Court.
6.2         Although CI has already successfully managed IDA and Japanese Grant
funds, the implementing agencies' management capacity needs considerable strengthening.
To ensure smooth project implementation, CI and later INTl would employ an



- 38 -
administrative officer (with experience in procurement) and a financial controller
(consultants) to form a Project Administrative Coordination Unit (UCAP) and manage
project procurement, disbursement, and reporting. UCAP would work under the overall
responsibility of CI (and INTI when established).
6.3         Cadastre and Cat-San Management. The land tenure clarification, title
regularization and management of Cat-San on a total of three million ha involves complex
technical operations. For this reason, CI and later INTI would employ specialists in land
registration and cadastre systems to manage this component under the overall direction of
CI's Geographic Information Department and in close cooperation with DDRR and RLC.
Terms of Reference of these consultants are in Annex 11. DDRR and/or RLC would
detach some of its staff to CI and MI in order to: (i) learn about GIS and cadastre
operations; (ii) avoid duplication of work at the moment the parcels would be registered;
and (iii) give legal endorsement of the cadastre and registry work carried out by CI and
INTI under this component. The cadastral survey and mapping work would be
subcontracted to a private sector company under a single responsibility contract. This
company would sub-contract survey services and aerial photography out to other private
companies.
6.4         DDRR and RLC Management. CI and the Supreme Court would agree
on procurement and disbursement procedures for the DDRR and RLC components and
meet twice per year to solve implementation problems. The Supreme Court would
appoint a project coordinator in DDRR and RLC to manage the implementation of the
DDRR and RLC components. Assisted by UCAP, DDRR and RLC would carry out their
own procurement and financial management. Project management arrangements between
MDSMA and the Supreme Court would be contained in an agreement. The agreement
would also comprise arrangements concerning the management of the Special Account,
procurement relations with UCAP, training of DDRR staff at CI and INTI, the
appointment of a project coordinator at DDRR and RLC and the terms of reference and
prerogatives of such coordinator, as well as technical arrangements for the transfer and
management of data from CI and INTI to DDRR or RLC. 1DA has received a draft
agreement between MDSMA and the Supreme Court on project management
arrangements and has provided comments on the agreement. Reception by IDA of a
final agreement signed between MDSMA and the Supreme Court on project
management arrangements would be condition of project effectiveness (para. 8.2).
Reception by IDA of a similar agreement for the management of the RLC
component (when established) would be a condition of disbursement of
disbursement categories l(b) and 6(c) (para. 8.3).



- 39 -
Figure 2: Project Management Organigram
t Sustainable   |            | Supreme
Land Policy            Development &                     Court
|ManLagnedment LIF_I     
- XmCloINTIe_n| DDRR                            RLC
Legal ReformUCAll
Strengthening       Establishment
of Property          of Legal
Rights Registry       Cadastral
Registry
INTI          .             Land
Strenein    CAT-SAN       Settement
Strengthening                 Program
B. Project Implementation
6.5          Implementation Plan. The overall project implementation plan including
a detailed first year implementation plan has been agreed upon during negotiations and is
presented in Annex 10. Although the project period is six years, the Government intends
to implement the project activities over a period of four years. CI would carry out several
up-front actions including: (i) preparation of legal reforms; (ii) recruitment of
management consultants; (iii) procurement of GIS; (iv) design studies and preparation of
bid documents for civil works and service contracts; and (v) identification of Cat-San
areas and zones for land settlement. Every year, the implementing agencies would agree
with IDA on a detailed implementation plan for the following year. The yearly
implementation plans would include a yearly project implementation schedule, selection of
cadastre areas, and monitorable targets as well as a procurement plan for civil works,
equipment, and consultants to be recruited. During negotiations, agreement has been
reached that the project would be carried out in accordance with the project
implementation plan (including a detailed first year implementation plan) in
Annex 10, annual revisions to the plan would be prepared by the implementing
agencies, and submitted to IDA for review (para. 8.1).



- 40 -
6.6         Implementation Manual. CI would prepare a detailed project
implementation manual. This manual would contain: a project implementation schedule,
the detailed terms of reference of the consultants to be recruited under the project, a
training plan, internal procedures for procurement of civil works, goods and for
recruitment of consultants, sample consulting contracts, disbursement procedures, key
monitoring indicators and sample bidding documents. The manual would be reviewed by
IDA. The preparation of the implementation manual before July 31, 1995 and its
prompt adoption by CI have been agreed upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).
C.   Project Monitoring and Supervision
6.7         Progress on land administration reform would be monitored by the Ministry
of Sustainable Development and Environment. Progress on project implementation would
be monitored by CI and INTI's Planning and Internal Audit Unit. IDA and the
Government would monitor the project's progress during joint supervision missions, a
first-year implementation review, a Mid-Term Review and an Implementation Completion
Review. The Government would also organize a project launching workshop upon
project effectiveness. Project monitoring and supervision arrangements have been
agreed upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).
Project Monitoring
6.8         The MDSMA Land Policy Analysis Unit would monitor the overall
progress of the land reform component and provide six-monthly reports to the Minister
and IDA. The reports would contain information on the implementation of the new land,
cadastre and registry legislation, their impact on the land tenure situation in the field,
problems which need the attention of the Ministry and/or IDA, and other important
matters.
6.9         CI and INTI's Planning and Internal Audit Unit would set up a monitoring
unit which would be responsible for following up detailed project and program progress.
A specialist has been hired to develop a monitoring system prior to project start-up. CI
and INTI would also prepare six-monthly reports on project implementation. These
reports would be furnished to IDA no later than two months after the completion of each
semester. A list of key monitoring indicators is presented in Annex 10.
Project Launching Workshop
6.10        Upon project effectiveness, the Government would organize a project
launching workshop to which all project stakeholders in the project (including
representatives of rural organizations and indigenous groups) would be invited. The
workshop would explain and discuss: (i) the overall project concept and content;
(ii) project organization and implementation; (iii) procurement and disbursement aspects;
(iv) audit requirements; (v) project supervision and reviews; (vi) communications with
IDA; and (vii) other subjects of particular relevance.



- 41 -
Project Supervision
6.11        Regular Supervision. Twice a year, the Government and IDA would
organize joint project supervision missions. Project supervision would essentially provide
implementation assistance. Before each mission, the Government and IDA would agree
on the major subjects to be supervised, which would always include an evaluation of the
project's progress based on the monitoring indicators, compliance with legal covenants,
and procurement and financial management supervision. At the end of each mission, the
Government and IDA would write an Aide Memoire which would contain the major
agreements reached during the mission.
6.12        Yearly Implementation Review. By November 30 of each year, the
Govemment and IDA would carry out a review of the project's implementation. This
review would mainly focus on the legal reform, institutional strengthening and land
mapping components. It would also focus on procurement progress and thoroughly
review the project management compliance with the procurement and financial covenants
of the Credit Agreement.
6.13        Mid-Term Review (MTR). Not later than 30 months after the
effectiveness date, the Government and IDA will carry out a MTR. Three months before
such review would take place, Government and IDA would agree on detailed terms of
reference and staffing of the MTR team. In particular, the MTR would analyze:
(i) overall project progress; (ii) implementation of the approved legislation, including the
public land distribution and land reversion aspects of the proposed land law; (iii) progress,
cost efficiency and impact of the project on the land tenure situation: (iv) the
implementation of the cost recovery mechanisms; (v) progress of the land settlements,
their cost efficiency and field impact; (vi) progress on institutional strengthening and the
increasing financing by the Government of the implementing agencies' operating costs;
(vii) procurement, disbursement and financial aspects; and (viii) effectiveness of the agreed
environmental safeguards. The Mid-Term Review arrangements have been agreed
upon during negotiations (para. 8.1).
6.14        Implementation Completion Report (ICR). At the latest six months
after project completion, the Government and IDA would carry out a joint project
completion review and produce an Implementation Review Report. This review would be
carried out by a team composed of project staf, IDA-representatives and independent
specialists. The review would also include a plan in such scope and detail as IDA would
reasonably request for the future operation of the project. IDA and Government would
discuss the plan after which the Government would implement the said with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, take into account IDA's
comments.



- 42 -
7. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, AND IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT,
WOMEN AND POVERTY
A.   Project Benefits
7.1         In the long term, a more efficient and reliable land administration and a
legal framework more consistent with economic and social realities would benefit all
stakeholders in land matters. Main benefits would be an increased knowledge of the land
tenure situation leading to an improved capacity to administer property rights and enforce
land use regulations, more land security providing incentives for the sustainable use of the
country's land resources, and improved title registration generating additional revenues for
the judicial system and enabling a more effective land tax collection by the Municipalities.
In addition, the proposed legal reforms, if implemented, may reduce distortions in the
allocation of the country's natural resources, reduce the unequal distribution of land
ownership among the country's population, and alleviate poverty of the landless poor.
Indigenous groups would also benefit from the legal recognition of their rights over well-
defined territories.
7.2         In the short term, reform of the existing land administration would benefit
most the commercial farmers of the Lowlands, for whom more security of land tenure and,
when the land law is enacted, less rigidities in the land market would translate into higher
rates of investment and growth. This group would be the target of the project cost
recovery efforts. A second group which stands to benefit most from the project are land-
poor, spontaneous migrants in search of economic opportunities in the Lowlands. These
would be the beneficiaries of the land settlements. Also, the envisaged legalization of
renting land and sharecropping in the new Land Law would improve the land security
situation for tenants. At the same time such legalization is likely to increase the supply of
land available for rent or sharecropping arrangements, thereby further increasing
employment and improving the access of landless farmers to land.
7.3         Although benefits are extremely difficult to estimate in quantitative terms,
the project is likely to generate a range of effects which can be classified according to
three categories: more efficient allocation, more equitable distribution, and more
sustainable use of Bolivia's natural resources. These likely effects are presented in
Table 10 and assume that the legal reforms will be implemented as scheduled.



- 43 -
Table 10: Potential Benefits of Land Administration Project
'EFCT                                                BEF C G "'"''
efficient         ......b .. zst....I
-__--__-_-__-_-__-_-__ -_-__ -_-- __ ---_-   allocation  d is i
1.    Land prices would better reflect the real value    V                    V
of land, because of better functioning of land
markets, encouraging farmers to make
investments and maintaining land quality.
2.    Issuing more secure titles would facilitate
provision of collateral for credit.
3.    Better secured titles would increase farmers'
planning horizon and make sustainable
agricultural technologies more attractive.
4.     Simple titling and registration procedures
would lower farmers' transaction costs.
5.    INTrs role in demarcating protected areas etc.                          I
would prevent migrant encroachment.
6.    Land-use plans to direct land settlements      I                        I
would reduce deforestation in areas unsuitable
for agriculture. This would slow down the
movement of the agricultural frontier and
lower the risk related to land clearing activities.
7.    Title clarification would revert to the State
properties donated illegally or not according to
procedures.
8.    Land settlements would improve small farmers'  /           1
access to land.
9.     The advice to and training of settlers to comply                       I
to land use regulations would provide a
guarantee for sustainable natural resources
management.
B. Risks
7.4           The Project has three major risks. First, given the extreme sensitivity of
land matters in Bolivia, the timing and content of the proposed legislative changes in
support of the refonn is largely unpredictable since they have to go through a
Congressional legislative process. Although the Government is firmly committed to create
INTI and RLC, there is a risk that Congress may not approve legislation to establish both
institutions during the project period. However, about 70 percent of the project objectives



-44 -
can be reached within the present institutional framework. To mitigate the project risks
involved in legal reform delays, disbursement of funds for the land title regularization and
the introduction of a legal cadastral registry would depend on the establishment of INTI
and RLC, respectively. If these institutions would not be established by the end of the
project, the Credit amount allocated for these components (US$3.7 million equivalent)
would be canceled.
7.5         Second, land reversion and distribution of reverted land to small fanners
would be a very risky element of the project as it requires considerable political courage to
enforce reversion. This risk would be reduced by the project's support for national
consensus building measures from the initial draft of the laws through to their approval.
Such consensus would make it easier for INTI to implement reversion decisions made by
the Agrarian Courts. Moreover, the Mid-Term Review would focus on the
implementation of the land tenure policy as defined in the Government's Letter of Land
Policy and the Government's willingness and capabilities to resolve the land conflicts in
the agreed upon and transparent manner.
7.6         Third, the implementing institutions have a weak management and
implementation capacity so that there could be substantial delays in project execution.
The project design intends to mitigate those risks by strengthening the implementing
agencies' management capacity, involving the private sector to carry out the cadastre
studies, and through intensive supervision and up-front procurement actions.
C. Environmental Aspects
7.7         The environmental impact of this project is described in detail in Annex 7
and can be summarized as follows. Most components of the proposed project are either
benign or clearly beneficial from an environmental standpoint. Increased land tenure
security for many farmers and other landholders would be environmentally beneficial,
because persons with secure land tenure rights are more inclined to use land-conserving
practices. The components requiring special environmental attention is the land settlement
program. Environment Category: B.
7.8         Land settlement in the tropics is controversial because of the deforestation
and related environmental and social problems which often result. However, the land
settlements program is not expected to increase deforestation pressures, nor does it seek
to accelerate migration to the Lowlands. Presently, new migrants often settle on lands
which are ecologically fragile and poorly suited for agriculture (particularly in the steep
Andean foothills). Some settlement zones are legally protected areas which lack
demarcation or effective enforcement. Some migrants are squatters on privately-owned
land, where they lack tenure security and have no incentive to invest in good land
management. The land settlement component is intended to channel some of this ongoing
colonization pressure away from the more environmentally sensitive lands and towards
lands of good agricultural potential with secure tenure.



- 45 -
Environmental Safeguards
7.9         To help ensure that the net environmental effects of the project would be
positive, the following environmental safeguards have been agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 8.1).
7.10        Environmental Screening of Land Settlements. Prior to allocating any
public lands for grants CI and later INTI would carry out an environmental screening
process to ensure that: (i) the lands are well-suited for agricultural development--which
would be determined in accordance with the soil classifications used in the land use plans
(PLUT) and, if necessary, determined by additional soil studies; (ii) the lands are not
claimed by indigenous peoples, nor necessary for maintaining their traditional livelihoods;
(iii) the lands are not needed to fill important ecological gaps in the National Protected
Areas System; (iv) no land parcel would be allocated for land settlements within the buffer
zones of any official protected area--and if no official buffer zone exists, within five km
from the border of the protected area; and (v) in the case of Santa Cruz Department,
lands would not lie within the zones designated as "Forest", "Existing Protection", or
"Proposed Protection" under the official Land Use Plan (PLUT). In the future, if other
land use plans are approved by other departments and/or at the national level, INTI would
also ensure that its land settlements (and sales) are fully consistent with those plans.
7.11        Selection of Settlers. In the selection of potential settlers for the land
settlement programn, NTl would give special consideration to persons who currently live
within "zones of environmental conflict". This approach is expected to enhance further
the environmental benefits of this project, by reducing existing human pressures within
environmentally sensitive areas.
7.12        Land Parcel Size. To promote more efficient land use, the basic unit of
land allocation in the land settlement program would be determined through technical
criteria based on the following objectives: (i) to ensure that every participating family has
enough land to build up a future for one generation; (ii) to maximize the number of
beneficiary families on the lands available for distribution; and (iui) to minimize the land
area deforested per family. The land settlement program would not distribute land in
parcels exceeding the maximum area of the small properties as defined in the Agrarian
Reform Law. New limits, based on soil suitability studies and land use plans would be
incorporated into the new Land Law.
7.13        Avoiding Perverse Incentives for Deforestation. The new Land Law
would state clearly that deforestation is neither necessary nor sufficient for obtaining new
land titles, nor for protecting existing, legally valid titles. INTI would avoid rewarding
new or recent deforestation in its land titling policies and procedures by establishing a
benchmark of land use through aerial photography.



- 46 -
7.14        Land Policy Analysis Unit. The group of MDSMA advisors on land
policy would have at least one natural resources management specialist (such as a
biologist, ecologist, or forest specialist).
D. Gender Impact
7.15        In Bolivia, man and women above 18 years old have equal legal rights to
land. Tradition, however, often prevents women from exercising rights. In indigenous
rural communities, women face a wide range of inequalities. Despite their predominant
role in the family's economic activities, women do not participate in the management of
their communities. Married women are mostly denied access to land ownership. Often
only the sons are heirs of the major family assets such as land and livestock whereas the
daughters inherit little.
7.16        Under the project, women would benefit in an equal manner as men from
the land regularization and land settlement program. Where land would be allocated to a
family, INTI can, at present, do very little to ensure that women exercise their land rights.
During negotiations agreement has been reached that CI and INTI's equal
treatment of both genders in land allocation and explicit provisions related to
women's right to land would be included in the Land Settlement Manual and in
publicity campaigns of Cat-San (para. 8.1). In parallel land policy discussions with the
Government, IDA will examine how clauses could be introduced in the Land Law to make
women's rights to land more explicit.
E. Poverty Alleviation
7.17        Bolivia's poorest of the poor live in the Andean regions. Their possibilities
for survival are limited by the harsh climate and the poor land resources. Facilitating their
emigration to fertile agricultural lands instead of fragile lands is an important option to
improve their livelihood.
7.18        The project would contribute to poverty alleviation by: (i) providing
agricultural land and land titles to approximately 10,000 poor spontaneous migrant
families; (ii) providing land security to the poor and the indigenous people; and
(iii) stimulating employment by creating flexible land markets and by providing secure
titles to be used as collateral for agricultural credit. The project would also help to
coordinate technical and basic infrastructure assistance to poor migrants provided by other
agencies to settlers.



- 47 -
8.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1         During negotiations, the following agreements have been reached:
(a)   the content of the Letter of Land Policy and the timing of the legal reforms
(para. 4.9);
(b)   if the moratorium on the distribution of lands would be lifted and if the
Government decides to distribute public lands other than for small
agricultural and livestock holdings as defined in the 1953 Agrarian Reform
Law, it would distribute such lands through sales in public auction
(para. 4.11);
(c)   a list of priority cadastre areas for the first year of project implementation
(para. 4.19);
(d)   during title regularization process, the Government would revert
unproductive lands to the public domain in accordance with the 1953
Agrarian Reform Law (para. 4.34);
(e)   INTI's adoption of detailed land conflict resolution rules on conflicting
land claims in form and substance satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.34);
(f)   the Government would charge fees for cadastre surveys and titling services
performed in respect of medium and corporate agricultural holdings and
medium and large livestock land holdings as defined in the 1953 Agrarian
Reform Law and from the Municipalities in which these land holdings are
located at a level sufficient to cover Cl's and INTI's unitary direct costs for
providing the services (para. 4.40);
(g)   the content of the Land Settlement Manual (paras. 4.45 and 7.16);
(h)   the auditing and accounting arrangements (para. 5.17);
(i)   the project would be carried out in accordance with the implementation
plan including a detailed first year implementation plan, annual revisions of
the plan to be made by the implementing agencies and to be submitted to
IDA for review (para. 6.5);
(j)   the preparation of the project implementation manual before July 31, 1995
and its prompt adoption by CI (para. 6.6);



-48 -
(k)   the project monitoring and supervision arrangements including the content
of the Mid-Term Review (paras. 6.7 and 6.13);
(I)   the environmental safeguards (para. 7.9); and
(m)  CI and INTI's equal treatment of both genders in land allocation and
explicit provisions related to women's right to land to be included in the
Land Settlement Manual and publicity campaigns of Cat-San (para. 7.16).
8.2         The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   reception by IDA of the signed version of the Letter of Land Policy
(para. 4.9);
(b)   adoption by CI of a Land Settlement Manual including environmental
screening procedures acceptable to IDA and stipulating the equal treatment
of both genders in land allocation (paras. 4.45 and 7.16); and
(c)   reception by IDA of a signed agreement between MDSMA and the
Supreme Court on project management arrangements (para. 6.4).
8.3         The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a)   establishment of INTI as weUl as the adoption by INTI of the Land
Settlement Manual, the internal procedures for land conflict resolution and
the Cat-San cost recovery mechanisms (paras. 4.31, 4.34 and 4.40) for
disbursement categories 5(b) and 6(b) of Table 8 (para. 5.12);
(b)   establishment of RLC and reception by IDA of a signed agreement between
MDSMA and the Supreme Court for the management of the RLC
component (paras. 4.48 and 6.4) for disbursement categories 1(b) and 6(c)
of Table 8 (para. 5.12); and
(c)   establishment of the Agrarian Court and institutional arrangements between
MDSMA and the Agrarian Courts satisfactory to IDA for disbursement
category 3(b) of Table 8 (paras. 4.15 and 5.12).
Recommendation
8.4         Based on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of
SDR13.7 million (US$20.4 million equivalent) to the Republic of Bolivia.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Letter of Government Land Policy
Background
1.          The 1953 Agrarian Reform the legal and institutional system has played a
key role in land redistribution and elimination of latifundio. However, in the past twenty
years there have been many irregularities in the allocation and administration of the
nation's land, a situation which underscores the necessity of a thorough study and review
of the Agrarian Reform process in order to bring it into line with current needs. This
entails both moving into a consolidation phase with regard to the advances made since
1953 and facing up to new challenges.
2.          The deficient institutional application of the Agrarian Reform Law, coupled
with the unproductive institutional arrangements, have given rise to seven types of major
constraints and distortions in land tenure structure, agricultural growth and management
of the country's natural resources:
(a) The current legal framework, while most successful in eliminating latifundio and
redistributing land in the Andean regions to those who were working it, does not
recognize or respond effectively to the different social, economic and cultural
contexts of land tenure in Bolivia. In particular, the present legislation does not
recognize the crucial role of the traditional ("canpesino") organizations in defining
agrarian property rights within their communities, in preserving and protecting
these rights and in resolving conflicts concerning them. However, the new Popular
Participation Law makes important improvements which need to be incorporated
into the new agrarian legislation. Moreover, the Agrarian Reform Law was
designed to deal with the latifundio situation prevailing in the Highland plateau and
Valleys and did not take into account the situation in the Eastern Lowlands,
especially the unused public lands and the historic land settlement and use rights of
the indigenous populations of the Bolivian Amazonian and Chaco territories.
(b) The arbitrary and irrational policy followed for allocation of public land in the
Eastem Lowlands, where it has been distributed practically free of charge and
without taking appropriate use into account, has sparked an extremely rapid
reconcentration of land holdi- ,- and, to some extent, a reversal of the Agrarian
Reform's main achievements during the first twenty years of its implementation.
As a result, forty years after the commencement of the process there is no
equitable land tenure structure.



- 50-
(c) The outcome of this irrational land distribution policy--combined with deficient
and imprecise mapping of land awards and forestry concessions, together with the
jurisdictional conflict among the National Agrarian Reform Commission (CNRA),
the National Colonization Institute (INC) and the Forestry Development Center
(CDF)--has been an administrative chaos of overlapping land, forestry and mining
rights (involving farmers, ranchers, indigenous peoples, loggers, mining
concessions and oil and gas interests, etc.) which created widespread tenure
insecurity, especially in the Eastern Lowlands.
(d) In addition, the legal provisions on reversion of land to State ownership have
contributed to tenure insecurity for small, medium and large farmers and ranchers
(because whoever initiated the process could apply for the land). With the passage
of time, this reversion procedure has worked counter to the central objective of the
Agrarian Reform of breaking up latifundio in order to turn them over to the
peasants who worked them and has become a mechanism for transferring rights
among private individuals, with the participation and approval of the State.
(e) The State has never had a territorial planning policy and much less a policy based
on sustainable development and taking the use potential of land and other natural
resources into account. At present, attempts are being made to implement a policy
of this type. However, the overlapping of rights resulting from irrational
allocations in the past greatly complicates this work, to the extent of making it
impossible in some parts of the country without a prior regularization process and
scientific assessment of the potential of the rural lands.
(f) These policies and lacunae in the land legislation have also caused major
distortions in the land market, encouraging illegal land sales, limiting access to
credit for large sectors of production, holding down investment and, in general,
acting as a brake on the harmonious economic growth of the agricultural and
forestry sector.
(g) Finally, the excessive bureaucratization of the land allocation and agrarian justice
procedures was a factor in widespread corruption in CNRA, INC and CDF,
retarding the working ofjustice and causing excessive politicization in these
institutions. Absence of adequate institutional controls over CNRA and INC led
to the Govemment stepping in and introducing a moratorium on land transactions,
thereby launching a far-reaching legal and institutional reform process.
General Land Policy Principles and Objectives
3.           On the basis of the foregoing and in the context of the Governments
general policy, agrarian policy is govemed by the following general principles and
objectives: (i) treating land from an integral standpoint, taking into account its economic,
social, cultural, technical, political and historical connotations; (ii) guaranteeing technical
and legal security to agrarian property, under all types of ownership and holding, in order



- 51 -
to stimulate investment in land and facilitate the functioning of the formal and legal land
market; (iii) promoting an equitable tenure structure and giving priority in access to public
lands to landless peasant and indigenous people groups; (iv) promoting efficient and
sustainable use of the resource represented by land and of other natural resources; and
(v) fostering a legal and institutional system of land administration and conflict resolution
that is both transparent and effective.
Basic Thrusts of the Land Policy
4.          To accomplish the general objectives of the land policy, the Government's
strategy is based on five key pillars: (i) changes of substance in agrarian legislation;
(ii) role of Government intervention; (iii) institutional reforms; (iv) implementation of the
technical and legal regularization connected with the rural cadastre; and (v) application of
specific policies for resolving the problems of the minifundio and neo-latifundio.
Changes in Agrarian Legislation
5.          A crucial component of the Government's land policy is early submission to
Congress of the Bill to Amend the National Agrarian Reform Service (for the
establishment of the Land Institute) and a Cadastre Law. In a later stage, a draft Land
Law will be submitted to Parliament as an amended and updated version of the 1953
Agrarian Reform Law. Meanwhile, the Chamber of Deputies recently approved a new
Forestry Law, which now only requires Senate approval.
6.          With a view to resolving the problems detailed in the foregoing, the draft
Land Law will address the following central topics.
7.          Socioeconomic Function of Land. The Government will propose in its
draft Land Law that the socioeconomic function concept be aligned on the present
situation as to productive use of the land, equity in its distribution and ecological
implications. In addition to crop farming and stock raising, this concept will include
sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation as sources of preservation of
the right of ownership over land.
8.          Definition of the Different Types of Ownership of Rural Land. The new
Land Law will be sufficiently flexible to reflect and respect the diversity of social partners
and the heterogeneity of agrarian activity in the country, in such a way that it will support
the dynamics of change and evolution of the agricultural sector.
9.          Reversion and Expropriation. The grounds for reversion and
expropriation of private lands will be redefined and the procedures employed will be
amended. The present reversion mechanism, by which the initiator of the reversion
process can claim the land, will be eliminated. However, the principle of reversion of land
to the State will be maintained as a form of penalty for leaving land unproductive. In
addition, the principle of expropriation (with compensation) by the State for purposes in



- 52 -
the public interest (for infrastructure and housing construction, etc.), will also be
maintained.
10.          Policy on Distribution of Public Lands. The land distribution policy will
be implemented in the context of national and regional plans for rational land use, taking
into account the different possible altemative uses, such as agriculture, stock raising,
sustainable forestry, national parks, protected areas, biodiversity reserves, indigenous
peoples' lands, etc. There will basically be two mechanisms for distributing public lands:
(i) land will be allocated free and on a priority basis to indigenous communities and, in
areas not exceeding 50 ha, or the limits set for smallholdings by regions in the Agrarian
Reform Law to landless peasants (as part of land settlement programs); and (ii) in the
areas declared regularized by the Land Institute, public lands will be allocated at market
prices as determined by public competitive bidding. In other words, there will be no more
free land allocations to individuals who do not meet the criteria for settlement program
beneficiaries. Once the law is approved, all purchases of regularized private lands will
have to be effected through the market.
11.          Land Market Regulation. By making a distinction between the lands held
by indigenous communities and all other privately owned land, the regulation of market
transactions involving the former will then be based on the rules and customs of the
communities concerned, while dealings in the latter will have to be in accordance with the
civil regulations and procedures in effect.
12.          New Forestry Legislation. The Government has placed before Congress a
new Forestry Law (already approved by the Chamber of Deputies) that will substantially
change the exploitation of the country's forest resources as follows:
(a) the new law will put an end to the overlapping of rights to land and forests,
through the combining of these rights under the "forestlands" concept;
(b) the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment will be charged with
classifying all the country's forestlands, differentiating between forestlands with
protection forest, forestlands with permanent production forests, forestlands
with conversion forest, multiple-use forestlands and forestlands without forest
or plant cover;
(c) on public forestlands with permanent production forests will be granted by
means of public competitive bidding, except in the case of indigenous
communities or original local population groups, who will be able to obtain
forestry concessions on request subject to submission of management plans duly
approved by the respective regulatory body;
(d) clear rules will be established for forest use and exploitation, on both public
forestlands and forestlands to which private individuals hold title;



- 53 -
(e) in the event of conflicts, private individuals (whether farners, ranchers,
communities or indigenous peoples) holding duly regularized enforceable titles
to forestlands will be given preference for forest use concessions or contracts;
and
(f) a decentralized institutional system will be established, with creation of SEFOR
at national, departmental and provincial level, in order to exercise adequate
control and oversight over forest resources.
Role of Govermment Intervention
13.         The Govemment fimily intends to maintain the moratorium on grants of
public lands until the regularization process has been completed.
14.         The Govemment's Intervention in the CNRA - INC is an essential step for
reforming the present national land administration system. The Intervention is accordingly
fully authorized and is empowered by the Govermment, through the relevant legal
instrument (Supreme Decree or Ministerial Resolution), to take all necessary measures
for: (i) creation of the Project Coordination and Administration Unit (UCAP),
establishment of the Special Account and startup of the Project; (ii) coordination and
agreement with the Supreme Court on the final version of the Agreement; (iii) preparation
of the technical specifications for intemational bidding on the Cat-San; (iv) coordination of
the programs for coordinating and preparing the draft versions of the Registry and
Cadastre Law and of the Land Law; (v) creation of the Land Policies Analysis Unit
(UDAPTI) in coordination with the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment (it remains to be specified where the UDAPTI will be located in the
Ministry); and (vi) preparation of the Project Implementation, Land Settlements and
Regularization Criteria manuals, in coordination with the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Environment.
Institutional Reforms
15.         In order to implement the structural reforms envisaged by the Government,
a new de-bureaucratized, efficient and transparent institutional system will be essential.
The Government is accordingly undertaking the considerable task of creating and
establishing a Land Institute, the Agrarian Jurisdictional Agency (Organ Jurisdictional
Agrarian - OVA) and the Legal Cadastral Registry (Register Legal Catastral - RLC).
16.         National Land Institute (IN77). INTI will be responsible for administering
land resources, for which it will take the place of the CNRA and INC. It will have its own
capital and will operate under the oversight of the Ministry of Sustainable Development
and Environment. INTI will exercise jurisdiction in rural areas nation-wide, through
departmental and regional offices, and will be the agency charged with enforcing
compliance with all current and future agrarian legislation. INTI's main powers include:
(i) implementation of land distribution, redistribution and reversion policies;



- 54 -
(ii) implementation of the technical and legal regularization of agrarian property
ownership; (iii) implementation and coordination of land settlement policies; (iv) ruling on
all petitions concerning rural land, the allocation and granting of which are entrusted to
specialized entities; and (v) perfornance of the country's first legal cadastral survey.
17.          Agrarian Jurisdictional Agency (OJA). WiU be created by law (through
the law modifying the National Agrarian Reform Service) and will be responsible for
administering agrarian justice and resolving land holding conflicts between private
individuals.
18.          Legal Cadastral Registry (RLC). The Property Registry (Derechos Reales
DDRR) offices do not presently have the technical and administrative capacity to handle
public registry functions for rural areas, neither are they fully capable of doing what is
needed in urban areas. The main problem that needs to be resolved as soon as possible,
for both urban and rural areas, is the geographic and spatial base of the rights registered.
This base is obtained through the cadastre.
19.          For rural land, the problem is a little more complex, owing to the existing
conflicts, such as overlaps, title duplications, lack of precise technical data and so on. The
National Land Administration Project (PNAT) accordingly includes a component aimed at
strengthening the public registry through creation and operation of the Legal Cadastral
Registry. This Registry, which will replace the existing (urban and rural) Property
Registry, will be under the oversight of the Judicial Branch and will have, as one of its
primary functions, responsibility for maintaining cadastral information.
20.          The Supreme Court, as the topmost authority with responsibility for the
present Property Registry, is participating in the design of this component. To this end,
the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment and the Supreme Court have
signed a cooperation agreement for joint implementation of the Registry components of
the Land Administration Project.
Technical and Local Regularization and Legal Rural Cadastre
21.          In order to rectify the procedural defects and eliminate the overlapping of
rights affecting many agrarian properties, a technical and legal regularization of the
position of agrarian property will be carried out.
22.          General Regularization Criteria. The main features of the regularization
have already been defined in the agreed draft version of the law establishing the Land
Institute, namely that:
(a) regularization is a suitable instrument for correcting procedural defects, for
identifying availability of land, for providing security of tenure and for facilitating
operation of the legal land market;



- 55 -
(b) regularization is a special and transitory process in its different modalities
(normal regularization or Cat-San), with an execution period of five years, with
possibility of extension if the goals set have not been accomplished and the
means for further execution are available;
(c) regularization is a mechanism that promotes and enables the amicable resolution
of conflicts;
(d) the Land Institute is authorized to review all dossiers (titled and to be titled) in
order to ensure that the aims of regularization are met throughout the Republic;
(e) the Cat-San (integrated cadastre and regularization) will be performed by
administrative initiative. Areas will be declared subject to Cat-San when one or
more of the following factors is of significance: irregularity in agrarian
procedures; presumption that the land in the area is not performing a social
function; potential for identifying land for settlement, on the basis of the purpose
for which the land is used;
(f) regular regularization will be done on request only in cases of overlapping or
double titling. Regular regularization will be done by administrative initiative
only in areas where there is overlapping with classified areas (national parks,
indigenous peoples' lands, forest reserves, etc.);
(g) Cat-San areas will be declared by Supreme Resolution (i.e., by the President of
the Republic), while the areas subject to regular regularization will be declared
by Administrative Resolution of the Land Institute;
(h) the execution of the regularization will be gradual and systematic, to assist in the
territorial planning process being carried out by other Government agencies;
(i) the regularization will be consistent with legislation (State Constitution, Agrarian
Reform Law and other current legislation) in force at the time the rights are
obtained, bearing in mind that working of land is the basic justification for
obtaining and retaining right of ownership thereto;
(j) where allocations in excess of the areas specified for smallholdings were acquired
through defective procedures, such allocations will be officially canceled by the
Agrarian Jurisdictional Agency;
(k) land which is not worked within two years from the issuance of the decision, as
specified in the Agrarian Reform Law, will revert officially to the State in
accordance with the procedure to be laid down in the implementing regulations
of the Land Institute Law;



- 56 -
(1) resolutions that result from the regularization process may have the effect of
canceling, modifying or confirming existing allocations or creating new ones.
These will be Supreme Resolutions (President of the Republic) when the dossier
in question already includes title or a Supreme Resolution, but in the case of
dossiers without Supreme Resolution or title they will be INTI Administrative
Resolutions;
(m) appeals against regularization resolutions must be filed in accordance with the
Civil Code (in the case of Supreme Resolutions) or through the Agrarian
Jurisdictional Agency (in the case of Administrative Resolutions);
(n) Departmental Agrarian Commissions will be created, in which the Government
and all sectors involved will participate, to ensure proper implementation of the
regularization process;
(o) rural communities and indigenous peoples will have priority in land allocation
versus applications by individuals, if it is demonstrated that such communities or
peoples formerly possessed the land in question;
(p) properties (whether original allocations or subsequently purchased) that are
larger than the areas specified for smallholdings will be titled after technical-legal
inspection by the Land Institute and certification by the appropriate organization
(CSUTCS, CSCB, CIDOB, Agricultural Chambers) to verify that the land is
performing a social function, in accordance with the development plans; and
(q) properties on forestlands (according to the zoning that will be made following
approval of the new Forestry Law) which have agrarian or stock raising titles
will have priority over forestry concessions (if the Forestry Law so specifies) and
will have to comply with the requirements of said Law. If the requirements of
the Law are not met (forest tax not paid or use rules violated, for instance), the
land will revert to the State; it may not be allocated to private individuals, but
may be used for forestry concessions. Forestland dossiers not including a title
will have two years to regularize their status and shall be governed by the
provisions of the Forestry Law.
Titling
23.         In areas not subject to regularization (regular or Cat-San): (i) small-
holdings and rural communities with a Supreme Resolution will be titled without any other
requirement except that the Resolution be made executory; (ii) if there are conflicts or
objections to the titling, these shall be referred to the Agrarian Jurisdictional Agency; and
(iii) proceedings in respect of which no ruling has been given shall be considered new
proceedings.



- 57 -
24.         New Proceedings: (i) new proceedings will be conducted by means of a
simplified administrative process decentralized at departmental level, with active
participation of the regional offices of the Land Institute. Since this is an administrative
procedure, there will be no need for agrarian judges to issue decisions. In the event of
conflicts or objections, amicable settlement of the conflict will first be sought by Land
Institute staff. If such efforts prove unavailing, the conflicts will be referred to the
Agrarian Jurisdictional Agency; (ii) the dossiers will only be forwarded to the Land
Institute central office in La Paz for issuance of the title and signature by the competent
authority; (iii) as long as the regularization process is taking place, requests will only be
accepted in respect of community lands, classified areas and properties not exceeding
50 ha or the limit set for smallholdings established in the Agrarian Reform Law; and (iv) in
areas declared regularized, applications in respect of new lands will be accepted from
private individuals; such lands wrill be sold at market prices as determined by public
auction and will be titled on the basis of the land classification in the use plans.
25.          The Stages of the Cat-San (7ntegrated Cadastre and Regularization
System). Cat-San is a territorial planning instrument that combines the cadastre and
regularization processes and is designed to regularize, inventory and record rural property.
This system will be applied solely in cadastral areas and the stages involved will be:
(a) determination of areas; (b) review; (c) publicity and information campaign;
(d) cadastral surveys; (e) technical and legal evaluation; (f) availability for public scrutiny;
(g) resolution; (h) declaration of cadastral area; and (i) entry in Property Register (RLC).
26.         For application of this instrument, the Government will weigh various
economic, technical and sociocultural factors in order to rank the cadastral areas by
priority.
Recognition, Demarcation and Titling of Indigenous Peoples' Lands
27.          The policy document makes no mention of the Governrent's plans
concerning the question of the indigenous peoples' lands (or traditionally community-
occupied lands) in the country. The Government intervention measures have already
made significant progress toward recognition and demarcation of indigenous peoples'
lands, acting in coordination with the National Secretariat of Ethnic, Gender and
Generational Affairs (SNEGG) and through cooperation in the preparation of the Beni
Indigenous Peoples Development Project to be financed by the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD, Rome).
28.         To respond effectively to the problems posed by indigenous peoples' lands,
three interrelated strategies are called for (which will be specifically referred to in the
policy document): (i) changes must be proposed in the agrarian legislation in order to
clearly define the rights and responsibilities of the indigenous peoples concerning the land
they traditionally occupy. These proposed changes would be spelled out in the new Land
Law and would be in accordance with Article 171 of the new Political Constitution of the
State and with Law 1257 (which ratifies ILO International Convention No. 169) that



- 58 -
comrnits the Government to adjusting its legislation and institutions to comply with the
requirements of said Convention; (ii) performance of such technical and cartographic
work, and anthropological and other studies as are needed for the definitive demarcation
of traditional community lands; and (iii) the Government will take appropriate steps to
clarify the legal status of the Indigenous Peoples' Territories created by Supreme Decree
and to redefine the areas (and boundaries) of these territories on the basis of technical
criteria and socioeconomic and anthropological studies.
Recognition of Women's Rights to Land Ownership
29.          Under the current agrarian legislation, women have the same rights as men
as regards applying for allocation (or consolidation) of land holdings and to receive
executory titles in their name (as stipulated in the 1953 Agrarian Reform Law). However,
the traditional customs in many regions of the country prevent assertion of these rights.
To overcome these problems, the Government will carry out an awareness campaign on
women's rights to land ownership.
Specific Policies Minifundio and Neo-latifundio Problems.
Land Settlement Policy
30.          From the start of the Land Administration Project, the Government will
implement a new land settlement policy based on nine essential criteria: (i) identification
of existing public lands with agro-livestock potential and those that will be subject to
reversion through the regularization process and which are suitable for settlement, in
accordance with the use plans; (ii) performance of a technical and legal evaluation of these
lands to ensure that there is no overlapping of classified areas, indigenous peoples' lands,
forest reserves, etc.; (iii) performance of basic technical studies on these lands to ascertain
their suitability for settlement; (iv) taking of such legal steps as are necessary to reserve
these lands on a priority or exclusive basis for settlement purposes; (v) execution of land
settlement programs in response to specific demands for land and identification of
program beneficiaries on the basis of simple and expeditious poverty criteria; (vi)
performance of the looting of the land allocated to the beneficiaries, either by community
or in individual allotments, according to the circumstances; (vii) coordination with other
public and private bodies regarding investments in basic public services, road
infrastructure and so on; and (viii) periodic evaluation of the progress of the land
settlement programs.
Recovery of Cost of Public Investments and Tax Policy
31.         In order to prevent unproductive concentration of holdings and speculation
in rural land, the Government intends to apply a progressive policy of recovering the cost
of the Cat-San. The details of the cost-recovery mechanism are given in a separate
document. In short, it is the Government's intention to establish a single charge payable
by Cat-San beneficiaries that will be collected at the time the final cadastral certificate is



- 59 -
issued, after the "Resolution" stage. This charge is not a tax on the land (taxation will be
handled in coordination with the respective Basic Territorial Organizations
(Organizaciones Territoriales de Base - OTBs) in accordance with the Popular
Participation Law), but represents recovery, by the State, of the increase in value of the
land resulting from the greater security of tenure afforded by the Cat-San. The proceeds
of this charge will be divided between the Land Institute (as the chief entity involved in
administering the National Land Administration Project) and the Legal Cadastral Registry.
This charge will be applied on a progressive basis, in such a way that a first stratum of
properties would be exempt from payment and the rest would pay a fixed amount per
hectare, according to the size of the property.
Inter-institutional Coordination
32.         Inter-institutional coordination is a major function of the Ministry of
Sustainable Development and Environment. The procedures and mechanisms for this
coordination will be established in accordance with the priorities and objectives of the
National Land Administration Project. Activities will be coordinated among the ministry,
the Secretariat of Natural Resources, the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock, the
Secretariat of Rural Development, the Undersecretariat of Territorial Planning, the
Undersecretariat of Ethnic Affairs and others having to do with land.
33.          Coordination at the higher level will be handled by the National
Development Council, which is charged with proposing, discussing, coordinating and
recommending economic and social policies and the national strategies. The Council is
empowered to call on other authorities, public servants and experts, and also to set up
intersectoral commissions for various purposes.
(Illegible signature)
March 15, 1995



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Summary of Proposed INTI Law (National Agrarian Reform Service)
1.          The National Agrarian Reform Service (Servicio Nacional de Reforma
Agraria, SNRA) would be headed by the President of the Republic and consists of the
National Agrarian Commission (Comisi6n Nacional Agraria), INTI (Instituto National de
Tierras) and the Agrarian Courts. The National Agrarian Reform Service would supervise
the formulation and implementation of agrarian policies.
A. The National Agrarian Commission.
2.          The National Agrarian Commission would be presided by the Minister of
Sustainable Development and Environment and be composed of representatives of the
Government, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Confederation of Land Workers Syndicates,
the Colonization Syndicate and the Confederation of Indigenous Peoples. The
Commission's role would be to: (i) monitor the agrarian reform process; (ii) propose land
laws and regulations; (iii) oversee the implementation of the Government's land policy;
and (iv) propose the nomination of the Director of the National Land Institute
B.  National Land Institute
3.          The National Land Institute (Instituto Nacional de Tierras, INTI), under
the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment (MDSMA), would replace
both the National Council for Agrarian Reform (Consejo Nacional de la Reforma
Agraria, CNRA) of the former Ministry of Campesino and Agricultural Affairs, and the
National Institute of Colonization (Instituto Nacional de Colonizaci6n, INC), of the
Office of the Presidency. INTI would become the single public technical body with
authority on matters related to land distribution and titling.
4.          INTI's permanent functions would be to: (i) execute policies related to
land distribution, reversion, redistribution and settlements; (ii) distribute and title public
lands, including reverted lands; enforce established land use norms; (iii) prepare programs
to achieve equitable land distribution, giving priority to campesinos and indigenous
people; (iv) maintain a data bank on actual and potential land use; and (v) coordinate
public entities which provide infrastructure, basic services and technical assistance to
settlement areas.
5.          INTI's transitory responsibilities would be to: (i) regularize titles
through the resolution of title disputes, especially cases of duplicative claims, and
correction of judicial and technical errors in land title records; (ii) revert to the State title



- 61 -
for lands obtained in violation of the Agrarian Reform Law; and (iii) establish an
information system, to serve as a basis for the future National Cadastre, documenting the
location and extension of: (a) all lands distributed under the Agrarian Reform; (b) fiscal
lands available for distribution; (c) public lands reserved by law; (d) private agricultural
properties; and (e) lands whose title have been reverted to the State and available for
redistribution.
6.          INTI would consist of an Executive Director, Departmental Directorates
and Regional Divisions. The Executive Director (ED) would supervise and coordinate the
execution of agrarian policies and appoint the executive staff of the Regional Offices. The
term of office of the ED, along with that of the other INTI executives, would be four
years. To protect against a recurrence of the politicization which pervaded INTI's
institutional predecessors, there would be provisions to ensure the political independence
and professional qualifications of these nominations.
7.          Under the new law, involvement of the Office of the Presidency in land
issues would be limited to supervision, planning and execution of agrarian policies. The
Office would no longer directly participate in land conflict resolution. By means of a
Supreme Decree, the power to sign titles would be delegated from the Office of the
Presidency to INTI.
8.          INTI's La Paz office would be divided into four Divisions: Land
Settlement, Geographic Information, Title Regularization, and Administration. In
addition, it would be supported by Offices of the Legal Advisor, Information, Planning
and Internal Audit.
9.           The role of the Land Settlements Division would be to direct and supervise
land distribution policies, guarantee that land programs support sustainable development
and coordinate with Municipalities the execution of titling and settlement programs. The
Geographic Information Division would supervise the implementation of the plan for a
national Cadastre, including the collection of relevant data, preparation of required
technical and legal regulations, supervision of samples, and prioritization of sites for the
Cadastre. The responsibilities of the Title Regularization Division would be to develop an
effective and efficient system for issuing new titles and establish a process for title
legitimization and regularization.
10.         The Departmental Directorates (DD), located in the each of the nine
departmental capitals, would ensure the implementation of INTI's policies and programs
at the departmental level. The directorates in La Paz, Cochabamba, Chuquisaca and Santa
Cruz, where land conflicts are concentrated, would include special teams, partly financed
by an IDA credit, to implement the Cat-San process. Departmental Directorates would
provide technical assistance to campesinos and indigenous people related to the Land
Titling Program. Nineteen Regional Divisions would support the Departmental
Directorates.



- 62 -
11.         Funds to finance INTI's operations would be derived from allocations from
the National Treasury, institutional income and bilateral and multilateral grants and loans.
C. National Agrarian Courts
12.         Agrarian conflict resolution would be carried out by the National Agrarian
Courts (Organo Jurisdiccional Agrario). The National Agrarian System is being
designed. It is expected that it will be responsible for administering agrarian justice and
resolving land holding conflicts between private individuals. It is also expected that, at the
local level, the Agrarian Court would have nine departmental offices which would
adjudicate land rights conflicts.
D. Land Record Regularization
13.         PMT would be empowered for a period of five years (with possibility of
extension) to review and regularize titles issued by the CNRA and INC through two
processes: the integrated cadastral review (Cat-San) and the simple review (SAN). Cat-
San, refers to the technical and judicial procedures regularizing property rights in a given
area and correct procedural errors in order to authorize and register titles. SAN,
conducted upon request of the parties in conflict, is the technical and judicial procedure to
correct errors in titles to land outside the integrated cadastre.
14.         Titles issued by CNRA and INC, found to be illegal, could be nullified by a
Supreme Resolution. Other irregular titles could be nullified by an Administrative
Resolution issued by INTI. Administrative Resolutions could be contested in the Agrarian
Tribunal decisions taken by which would be final.
15.         INTI's resolutions would be: (i) annulment of land rights (where laws have
been broken); (ii) modification of existing land rights; (iii) confirmation of existing rights;
and (iv) establishment of new rights (where de-facto occupation produces a right).
16.         Land, in areas which have been regularized, would fall under the
jurisdiction of INTI and the Agrarian Courts. In areas which have not yet been
regularized, no requests for land would be accepted, with the exception of land for:
(i) indigenous groups; (ii) natural resources protection zones; and (iii) small properties as
defined by the Agrarian Reform Law with a maximum of 50 ha. INTI would be solely
responsible for the determination of an area as regularized.
17.         The results of the regularization process would serve as the valid source of
legal information concerning boundaries and the technical and legal identification of rural
properties. This information would be transferred gradually to the RLC.



....[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ...



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Cadastre and Registry Law
A. Cadastre Law
1.          The purpose of the Law of the Legal Cadastre would be to regularize and
establish technical norms and standards for the execution and maintenance of a legal
cadastre and guarantee property rights and possession of rural land. It would be the
judicial instrument to: (i) establish the basic legal requirements for execution and
maintenance of a national legal cadastre; (ii) authorize INTI to set norms, regularize and
facilitate the initial rural cadastre survey; (iii) establish the authority for the gradual
transfer of the cadastral information to the Cadastral Registry; and (iv) standardize the
technical and legal terminology related to the cadastre. A pre-requisite for a valid transfer
of property, within a cadastred area, would be the presentation of the property's
Cadastral Code to a Notary Public. In addition, rural properties would be required to
have a Certificate of Regularization issued by INTI.
2.          INTl would help to set the standards for, finance, execute and maintain the
rural cadastre. In the event that some of these responsibilities would be delegated to other
entities, INTI would supervise and approve the cadastre work. Once an area is declared a
cadastred area by an administrative resolution of INTI, the cadastre information could be
transferred to the Registry. This information would be open to the public and could be
only modified through judicial channels.
3.          When discrepancies occur between physical cadastral results and property
title regarding the geographic location, boundaries or area of a parcel, the physical results
would prevail. The cadastre would allocate area under contention to the individual who is
in possession of, or is working the land. These determinations could be modified only by a
judicial resolution. The preparation and presentation of a new cadastral plan would be
required for any transfer or physical modification of property. The cadastral plans would
be valid only when approved and inscribed in the legal Cadastre.
4.          Cadastral survey of a property would include the following:
(i) determination of the cadastral polygons; (ii) legal and technical parcel identification
through cadastral measurement based on the national geodesic network; (iii) preparation
of a cadastral file, dated and signed by the field work supervisor; (iv) preparation of the
parcel delineation; (v) preparation of the cadastral plan with geographic identification;
(vi) adjacent properties and total area at a specified scale; (vii) preparation of a cadastral
map; and (viii) location and codification of the parcel within the cadastral maps.



- 65 -
5.           The cadastral information would be maintained by: (i) up-dating cadastral
documents to reflect changes regarding property; (ii) assigning new cadastral codes
whenever property is divided; and (iii) up-dating the cadastral maps.
B. Registry Law
6.           The Law of the Registry of the Legal Cadastre would set out procedures
for inscription in the Registry. The Registry 's purpose would be to: (i) guarantee
property rights; (ii) maintain property rights records with accurate legal and physical
identifications; and (iii) keep for public review the inscription of property rights and liens
on such rights.
7.           The Registry (Registro Catastral Legal) would be the only specialized
office with responsibility for maintaining a land registry, which would retain all judicial
acts which constitute, modify, transfer or nullify property rights or other rights related to
real estate. The Registry would include: (i) judicial acts which are public documents;
(ii) judicial resolutions; and (iii) private documents requiring legal recognition.
8.           There would be two forms of registration: Definitive Enrollment: which
is the registration of an act of property rights or of other rights when they satisfy legal
requirements. Definitive enrollments could be requested by parties with legitimate
interests or by judicial mandate. Documents could be enrolled when stamped and
accompanied by a topographical plan approved by the legal cadastre and the property
registration card. In addition to the above, agrarian properties need to present the
Certificate of Regularization issued by INTL. Preventative Enrollment: would be the
temporary or provisional placement of a title in the registry constituting a precautionary
measure to guarantee the property rights of a party. These would be valid for two years,
but upon request, could be extended for an additional year. Upon presentation of the
appropriate documentation, a preventative enrollment could be converted into a definitive
enrollment.
9.           Registry of the Legal Cadastre: The Registry, under the Supreme Court,
would be a decentralized administrative institution, composed of a National Directorate
(based in Sucre); Departmental Directorates and Regional or Provincial offices. The
National Directorate would be responsible for the establishment of policy and institutional
finance. The Departmental Directorates, located in the departmental capitals, would have
operational responsibilities for the management of the Registry. The Regional Offices
would have responsibilities similar to those of the Departmental Directorates. Provincial
Offices would be established according to regional need.
10.          The National Director and the Departmental Directors would be designated
by the Supreme Court for terms of office of six years and four years, respectively. The
chiefs of the regional and provincial offices would be nominated for four year terms by the
National Director.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Land Policy Analysis Unit
The Land Policy Analysis Unit will:
(a)   advise the Minister of Sustainable Development and Environment, the President of
the Republic (as head of the Servicio Nacional de Reforma Agraria) and the
Executive Director of INTI on land policy matters;
(b)   analyze all land information generated by the National Land Administration Project
and other entities related to land and carry out punctual regional research on land
matters such as: land tenure, title regularization process, land markets, land use
norms, and evaluation of natural resources inventories;
(c)   monitor the development of the Land Administration Project through analysis of
progress reports and participation in some of the supervision missions and report
on the implementation progress of the reform process initiated by the project and
its field impact;
(d)   organize periodic seminars and workshops with the staff of the Ministry, INTI and
the private sector on land reforms, the implementation of the Land Administration
Project, policy proposals and UDAPTI's analyses;
(e)   elaborate proposals on: (i) the integration of land policies into the overall national
strategy for sustainable development; (ii) the national land use and zoning process;
and (iii) the definition of protected areas; and
(f)    make proposals on particular aspects of land management policy to other
institutions dealing with land matters.
The Land Policy Analysis Unit will work directly under the MDSMA. The permanent
advisors will be high-level staff appointed by the Minister. Consultants financed by IDA
(Agricultural Economist and Natural Resources Management Specialist) will be on two-
year contracts with possibility of extension. The Unit will prepare a semi-annual report to
be attached to the Project's semi-annual report.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
BOLlVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Proposed Cat-San, Cadastre and Registration Process
1.          This Annex describes the title regularization process, the establishment of
the legal cadastre, and the registration procedures of the new land administration system,
once 1NTI and RLC have been created. Although the establishment of INTI and the
introduction of a Legal Cadastral Registry is required to fully develop the new land
administration system as envisaged by Government, it is not a necessary condition to
initiate most of the activities aimed at eventually achieving this objective. In fact, within
the context of the current transitional land administration framework, the only activities
related to title regularization and registration which can not be carried out include:
(i) conflict resolution in cases where intermediation efforts by the Comisi6n de
Intervenci6n do not result in a joint agreement between landowners, thus requiring a
decision by the judiciary; and (ii) registration of cadastral plans containing the
geographical dimensions of properties.
Background
2.           Bolivia maintains a fiscal cadastre and does not yet have a legal cadastre.
Since the spatial precision of a fiscal cadastre is less demanding than of a legal cadastre,
this fiscal cadastre cannot address most of Bolivia's land-related problems, stemming from
unmarked boundaries, uncertain or conflicting titles and other legal complication.
3 .          There are two cadastres types:
(a)   Legal Cadastre: The legal cadastre is a record of legally recognizable
rights to land. It includes an unambiguous definition of the spatial
dimensions of individual parcels and a related record defining right holders
and the nature and basis of their rights. By definition spatial and legal
records are closely related and, in some cases may be integrated in the
same records
(b)   Fiscal Cadastre: The fiscal cadastre contains information used for
assessment and taxation functions. The reference unit should be the legally
defined property parcel. However, many fiscal cadastres maintain a spatial
record which only approximates the legal recorded does not accurately
reflect the legal situation. Most legal cadastres are based on the fiscal
cadastre. In Bolivia, this approach is not advisable because of considerable
rural opposition to land taxation. As local support is crucial to cadastre



- 68 -
establishment and maintenance, such opposition would slow the cadastre
progress.
4.           Comparing Fiscal and Legal Cadastres: While both legal and fiscal
cadastres use the property parcel as a basic unit of reference, each cadastre is designed for
a different purpose. The fiscal cadastre contains information on factors influencing
property values. Because of the changing value of properties, fiscal records require
systematic updating. In contrast, legal cadastre focuses on the land tenure status of a
parcel, requiring updating on a transaction-by-transaction basis. The spatial precision
required by the fiscal cadastre unless demanding than that required by its legal counterpart.
Generally, a fiscal map can not support a legal cadastre, while information from a cadastral
map is sufficient for fiscal purposes.
5.           Dericiencies of the Present Land Administration System: One of the
main reasons why the current land administration system in Bolivia is seriously deficient is
that it finds its base in the frequently obsolete and contradictory property descriptions
provided in the records of Derechos Reales. Lack of precise spatial information in these
records creates confusion about the location and dimension of a property upon which a
right has been established. The Derechos Reales defines the right which has been
established on a piece of land and only vaguely describes the property, in terms of its
topographical relation with surrounding properties and reference points (colindantes).
6.           In few cases, a graphical presentation of the property (plano) has been
voluntarily registered with the title or escriturapziblica. But, this plano is often
incomplete, as no technical norms have been set for drafting pianos. In addition, the
plano does not necessarily reflect the actual field situation, since its registration does not
require a technical review nor verification against other properties or conflicting property
claims.
Title Regularization and Legal Cadastre Process (Cat-San)
7.           The objective of the title regularization and legal cadastre (catastro con
saneamiento: Cat-San) process is to provide a reliable, up-to-date and authoritative
record of existing land rights land. This requires: (i) identification of de facto land rights
in the field, information which is not available in any public records, including those in the
Registry or other related agencies; and (ii) conformity to certain legal requirements,
including registration of a deed or contract in the Registry. The result of the process
would be a set of information recorded in the Register of Legal Cadastre (RLC),
describing the land rights of holders, the nature and basis of these rights, as well as the
spatial dimensions of the rights (area, geographic location, parcel dimensions). To achieve
this, Cat-San would require the following technical and juridical tasks:
8.           Step 1:       Selection of Priority Areas: The criteria for prioritizing
Cat-San areas should be finnly tied to the broader goals of the project: (i) solve land
conflicts; (ii) identify potential settlement areas for small farmers and (iii) improve the



- 69 -
capacity for better environmental management. Criteria to be considered would include:
(i) frequency of land disputes and demand for regularization; (ii) presence of available
public lands for distribution; (iii) availability of private lands with good agricultural
potential which could be reverted to public lands for re-distribution; (iv) areas of strong
agricultural development; (v) areas with planned infrastructure projects; and (vi) pressure
on valuable natural resources. Once prioritized, boundaries of Cat-San areas would be
clearly defined, preferably by using highly visible and easily identifiable ground features
such as rivers and roads.
9.          Step 2:      Office Investigation: This step would compile land tenure
information available from government institutions, including registry information from
Derechos Reales, base maps, aerial photography and plans from IGM, titles and plans
from the archives of CNRA and INC. The information would be used for planning and
preparing field work, but would never be regarded as definitive. The results would be
contained in a 'mosaic" comprised of reliable plans and maps integrated onto a single map
sheet (or set of adjoining map sheets) covering the Cat-San area. A list of owners and
other title information would also be compiled.
10.         Step 3:      Project Publicity/Promotion: A publicity campaign, using
radio, TV and newspaper, would be directed towards residents and landholders in the Cat-
San area, informing them of Cat-San's goals, benefits and timetable, and inviting them to
participate (i.e., clearing boundary lines, areas around property comers and corners).
Wherever possible, community leaders would be involved.
1I.         Step 4:      Field Investigation: Fieldwork would consist of a juridical
component, carried out by legal members of the field team, and a technical component, the
responsibility of surveying engineers and technicians.
12.         Juridical Investigation: The juridical investigation is concerned with the
nature of the existing rights in the parcel, who holds those rights, and the basis for the
claims to such rights. The information would be recorded on a cadastral card (ficha
catastrat). Minimum requirements for a valid claim (e.g., years of possession, documents,
necessary witness signatures) would be included in the legal framework prior to field
investigations. Special care would be taken not to exclude women who have valid land
claims. The legal framework would clarify in whose name the property would be
registered. If it is the head of household, than consideration would be given to securing
the rights of women who are not heads of households.
13.         Boundary Investigation and Demarcation: The surveyors would focus
on the identification, demarcation and documentation of property boundaries (linderos).
They would walk the boundaries, with the property owner and adjacent owners (in
communities, the community leader would also be part of this group), identifying
boundary lines and markers. In instances where the markers are not permanent, new
monuments would be set. The signatures of the affected parties would be obtained if a
matter of unclear or disputed boundaries were to be resolved in the field. Traditional



- 70 -
dispute resolution mechanisms would be used to the maximum extent possible so that the
community leaders would be involved in the process. Parties to the dispute would be
advised of the appeal mechanisms.
14.         Cadastral Survey: Field survey units would carry out a cadastral survey
of all corner points. Initially, Global Positioning System (GPS) methodologies would be
used to obtain coordinate information for these points. In some areas, it may be more
cost-effective to use aerial photography to measure the positions of parcel corners. The
field teams will draw sketches (croquis) of measured boundaries so that both metric
(measurement) and topological (relative position of corners and parcels) data would be
available. The boundary information would be compiled and plotted to form a cadastral
map covering all parcels in the district. Individual parcel plans (plano catastral) would
also plotted and registered in the RLC.
15.         Step 5:      Comparison of Field Results with Land Records: To
check the field data for quality and consistency, the juridical (ficha catastral) and
boundary information (mapa and plano catastral) would be collated and linked by means
of a provisional parcel identifier. Cross-checking against the mosaic and other information
from the formal records would establish the extent of the discrepancies between the de
facto land tenure situation and the one depicted by the public record. The output would
be a list of current owners (or claimants) and a cadastral map depicting all parcels in the
Cat-San area.
16.         Step 6:      Conciliation Process by INTI: Complaints and objections
would be heard in the first instance by the head of the departmental judicial directorates,
relevant members of the field teams and community leaders. In complex conflict
situations, INTI would start a conciliation process on the basis of an in-house manual of
rules and procedures governing the settlement of disputes and conflicting claims. If
conflicts can not be resolved, the matter would be brought before the Superior Agrarian
Tribunal, which would take a final decision.
17.         Step 7:      Publication of Field Results: The list of current owners
and claimants, together with the cadastral map, would be advertised in a public office of
the main town of the district to obtain a final response from landowners and claimants as
to the veracity of the results. If no objections are received within a set period (30 or 60
days), the list, cadastral map and parcel plans would be transmitted to the RLC for
registration.
18.         Step 8:      Registration and Issuance of Registry Certificates
(a)   Cadastre Area: Thirty to sixty days after publication of the field results,
INTI would sign a resolution declaring the areas "Area-Catastradd' The
cadastre information would be registered within RLC and entered directly
into the RLC maintenance process.



-71 -
(b)   Registration: Integration of the cadastral information into an improved
and modernized version of the current Registry will be facilitated by the
new component of this office (see below). New legal information on the
proprietors and the nature of their land rights would be initially contained
in cadastral forms (fichas catastrales) and used to modify existing
information in the Registry. The legal framework would establish the
validity of the incoming information vis-a-vis the old information. Since
the incoming information will generally be more current, reliable and
accurate than the existing information base, legal priority would be given to
the new information.
(c)   Issuance and Maintenance of Registry Certificates: The final step in the
regularization process would be the issuance of Registry Certificates to the
registered owners. This Certificate clearly would identify the geographic
location and dimensions of the registered parcel, the owner(s), the type of
right, date of registration and issue, and obligations to report any changes
due to transfers or subdivisions. An integral part of the Certificate would
be the cadastral plan, which would describe geographic characteristics of
the parcel (area, dimensions of sides, monument descriptions, angles or
azimuths, coordinates if used, administrative locale, parcel identifier, parcel
identifiers of adjoining properties, etc.). The only piece of information that
would appear on both the plan and the Certificate would be the identifier,
C6digo Cadastral, of the subject parcel. The Certificate should be clear
and succinct and used only for property transactions within the Registry.
Survey, Mapping and Land Information System
19.          Topographical Surveys: The project would establish a standardized
cadastral survey methodology, based on existing standards for topographical surveys in
the country and the experience gained from the pilot-studies. Standards and norms would
be established for cadastral surveying to support Cat-San and the maintenance of cadastral
data. Within the cadastre maintenance process, cadastral surveyors would do a survey and
draw up new cadastral plans wherever there is a change in parcel boundaries. The
absolute positions of boundary corners would be established and reflected on the cadastral
plan so that, if the physical monuments disappear, the corner positions could be re-
established. Conventional (tachometry/electronic distance measurement and the tape) as
well modern surveying-methods (total station and GPS) would be used.
20.          INTI would establish and adjust national cadastral standards and norms in
accordance with technical developments and social and legal requirements. IGM as the
national topographical map-producer, would provide the legal cadastre with the
topographical framework for the cadastral index-maps (mapa-catastral). RLC would be
responsible for: (i) updating the cadastral index-map; (ii) reviewing cadastral information
that enters the system in the form of cadastral plans; (iii) incorporating these individual
plans into a general cadastral plan which will serve to update the cadastral record; and



- 72 -
(iv) administering supplementary survey points and monumented property corner points,
necessary for local cadastral maintenance.
21.          Aerial Photography: New aerial photography would be required for an
area of approximately 1.5 million hectares and serve as base information for the cadastral
surveying activities. Photography would be taken at an approximate scale of 1:40,000 in
black and white. INTI would use airborne GPS to minimize ground control requirements
if photography is to be used for base mapping purposes. Depending upon the property
sizes, the aerial photography would be enlarged to a scale of 1:20,000 or 1:10,000. INTI
would not rectify the photography and would use it mainly for photo-interpretation and
administrative purposes.
22.          Cadastral Sketches (Croquis), Cadastral Plans and Cadastral Maps:
The Cat-San field team would draw a croquis, a cadastral sketch, not to scale, which
reflects parcel characteristics, such as the status of its boundary-line (i.e., if it has been
defined or if it is in conflict) and corner-points. It also includes: (i) information on
provisional cadastral codes (c6digo de levantamiento); (ii) relevant topography within or
outside the property; (iii) measurements obtained directly in the field; (iv) sketches of the
monumented property corner-points; and (iv) if necessary, a written explanation of the
legal implications of the property.
23.          Based on this sketch, the surveyor would draft the cadastral plan. The
plan, plotted to scale, would show the parcel's dimension, form and topology, in relation
to its neighboring properties. The cadastral plan would contain the following: (i) date of
field survey and name/signature of surveyor; (ii) graphic illustration of the parcel drawn to
scale; (iii) parcel identifier of subject parcel as well as adjoining parcel identifiers (shown
on graphic plan); (iv) distances and azimuths of boundary lines; (v) description of corner
monuments; (vi) coordinates of boundary corners (if available); and (vii) basis for
coordinates (control points used). It would also contain a table with the ID-number
(unique per plan) of the boundary monuments and its coordinates, referenced to the
national grid system. Once the plan has been accepted and registered in the legal cadastre,
the official cadastral code (c6digo catastral) would be added to the plan. As the plan
contains information exclusively related to the property (and not to the property right
holder), it would need to be adjusted only when the parcel size or dimension are modified.
24.         These plans would fit into the framework of the cadastral map. The
cadastral map would become available through analytic restitution from aerial
photography, digitization of existing analog topographical plans, or field-surveys. The
map (in digital and analog format), at a scale of 1:20,000 or 1:10,000, would function as
an overview map on which the c6digo cadastral would be visualized.
25.          Whenever the cadastral plan and the map were found to be in
contradiction, the cadastral plan would be adjusted to conform to the map. Hence, the
cadastral plan would have to be developed according to the scale of the cadastral map
(1:10,000 and 1:20,000) and take into account the precision criteria for the cadastral map.



- 73 -
To guarantee quality of the cadastral plan, only surveyors with the relevant professional
code would be entitled to prepare cadastral measurements (croquis and plmo) and present
plans for registration.
26.          Land Information Management and GIS: The land administration
information system would introduce an alphanumeric database and a GIS, as weli as
provide for efficient data-processing and retrieval. Further, the integrated information
system would provide inter-institutional data-communication - essential guaranteeing
consistency between both data-bases. The info-communication system would promote
efficient data access and directly link the legal and cadastral databases. A study, to
identify the technical needs for facilitating inter-institutional communication between the
Registry and the legal cadastre so that the alphanumeric and the graphical information
could be updated efficiently, is being prepared.
27.          The GIS system would: (i) accept digital boundary data collected via GPS
or photogrammetry and integrate these into a computerized cadastral map; (ii) integrate
descriptive or attribute data from the juridical investigation undertaken as part of the Cat-
San process; (iii) provide an efficient connection between attribute and computerized plan
information; (iv) create the initial cadastral plans by extracting relevant attribute and
graphic data and presenting this at the individual parcel level; (v) maintain the cadastral
map by incorporating new cadastral plans; (vi) maintain a Registry database by
incorporating changes in the legal status of parcels (e.g., transfers); and (vii) maintain a
database of scanned documents and plans.
28.          The initial GIS strategy would be to start with a modest PC-based system
to facilitate of personnel training and minimize software and hardware maintenance. As
the level of activity increases and more personnel are trained, the GIS would graduate to a
UNIX-based work station platform. Professionals would receive extensive training on:
system management, system maintenance, administrative programming, technical
programming, digitizing techniques, and design of GIS application software.
The Registration Process
29.          Present System: The present registry system is a rudimentary registration
of deeds from which certain information is extracted and "inscribed' in a register.
Inscription is designed to provide security to landholders by publicizing land transactions.
Entries in the register are organized chronologically and indexed by name of the grantor or
grantee. There is no legal requirement that land transactions be registered. However, in
the event that a landowner sells the same property to different buyers through different
conveyances, the buyer who registers first is regarded the legal owner. Unregistered
conveyances are valid between seller and purchaser, but have no effect against third
parties.
30.         In Bolivia, most rural properties are not registered for several reasons:
(i) over-centralization of Registry offices creates problems of access for rural people;



- 74 -
(ii) lack of appreciation of the security that registration provides against third parties;
(iii) high registration fees; and (iv) lengthy and complex titling processes. Those parcels,
which are registered, are usually so poorly defined, particularly with respect to geographic
location, that parcel superposition and uncertainty (and disputes) as to the correct
boundary line are unavoidable. In addition, the Registry contains obsolete and inaccurate
information due to informal land subdivisions.
31.          Reforms to the Existing System: To provide a clear and unambiguous
record of land parcels and rights, the existing registration system needs to be reformed as
summarized below.
32.          Cat-San would create an accurate and updated record of all properties and
landholders to be recorded in the Registry. Part of the recorded document would include
a cadastral plan based on a reliable field survey of each parcel, providing an unambiguous
definition of the location and dimensions of each parcel. A technical cadastre office would
be added to the Registry to monitor the quality of the cadastral plans submitted to the
Registry and maintain a complete cadastral map. Public access to Registry information
would be improved by providing computer terminals allowing easy access to the Registry
database; permitting direct public access to actual documents (or copies); and establishing
a formal information requisition process. The Registry information would be organized
and indexed on a parcel-basis as opposed to a grantor/grantee-basis so that all rights
would be referenced against clearly identified parcels. A computerized index would be
created cross-referencing parcels (identified by a unique parcel identifier) to right holders,
document numbers, and administrative areas (department, province, secci6n, etc.) to
facilitate data access. Documents required for registration would be simplified by
providing standard pre-printed forms to facilitate the electronic scanning and data
extraction. The services of the Registry would be decentralized to increase their
accessibility to the public.
33.          Registering Land Rights: Registration versus Titling  Titling is the initial
granting or "patenting" of state-owned land to private owners. These should be registered
in the Registry to have effect against third parties. Registration includes registered titling
cases as well registered changes to the property parcel or transfers of property rights.
34.          Registerable Transactions: Three kinds of land rights can be inscribed in
the Registry: (i) full land ownership rights; (ii) secondary rights (e.g., leases); and
(iii) encumbrances (e.g., liens, mortgages, servitude). Any transactions that create,
transfer, modify or extinguish these rights should be reflected in the Registry.
Article 1540 of the Civil Code contains detailed list of these transactions.
35.          Registration Documents: Under the proposed registration system, the
primary documents to be registered would be the cadastral plan and deeds (escrituras
publicas). The cadastral plan would be produced by a private land surveyor contracted by
the owner(s) of the parcel being subdivided or consolidated. Notaries would be
responsible for preparing deeds in accordance with current procedures. However, the



- 75 -
deeds would be simplified and standardized so that the information could be more readily
extracted and computerized. The future role of notaries within the new system would
need to be re-examined and re-defined.
36.         If a parcel were to be transferred as is (i.e., with no subdivision or
consolidation), then no new cadastral plan would be required and the old plan would
simply be attached to the new deed. The documents presented at the Registry would
therefore comprise a deed and a related plan. These would always be presented together.
The responsibility for presenting these documents to the Registry would lie with the
parties to the transaction.
37.         Quality Control and Verification: Once the documents have entered the
Registry and the date and time of receipt have been stamped on the face of the documents,
the plan and the deeds/contracts would be separated. The deed/contracts would be
checked by the Legal Department of the RLC to verify that the grantor (seller) does
indeed own the land rights that he/she is conveying and that the deed is complete (i.e.,
contains all required information, such as parties to the transaction, parcel identifier,
addresses, etc.).
38.         The cadastral plan would be submitted to the cadastral department of the
Registry for checking and verification. A new plan would be checked for completeness,
internal consistency (mathematical closure of the figure), as well as external consistency
(data on plan is consistent with the parent and adjoining parcels). If either the deed or the
plan were deficient in some way, it would be returned to the party who submitted the
documents. Repetitive submission of deficient documents prepared by the same notary or
surveyor would result in disciplinary action against that person. If documents were
acceptable, the cadastral department would, in the case of a new plan, allocate a new
parcel identifier (c6digo catastraf) and the plan and deed would be transmitted to the
Register.
39.         The Register: Like the current Register in Bolivia, the new RLC would be
created by extracting certain information from deeds and cadastral plans. But the RLC
would be organized so that each page in the RLC would represent an individual parcel.
The following information would be inscribed in the RLC: parcel identifier, grantor,
grantee, date of registration, type of transaction, cadastral map number, cadastral plan
number (if different from the parcel identifier), deed number, area (hectares or square
meters), and administrative locale. Initially, the RLC would be kept in an unbound book
form. Eventually, when all the information is computerized, the RLC would become a
database and reside entirely on a computer (with back-up tapes for security). The RLC
would be located in the Legal Department of RLC.
40.         Maintenance of RLC: Maintenance of the cadastre and registry would be
divided into two components. The first and most important is the acquisition of
information which describes land transactions (e.g., subdivisions, transfers). Depending
on the transaction, this information could comprise of a deed and cadastral plan.



- 76 -
41.         Without information on land transactions, RLC would soon become
obsolete. Therefore, disincentives to register (inaccessibility, high cost, processing delays,
etc.) need to be reduced and the registration benefits to landholders (e.g., tenure security,
credit, etc.) promoted. Up-dated information would be acquired on a transaction-by-
transaction basis. Under certain circumstances (e.g., extensive adverse possession or
conflicts), the Registrar would have the power to initiate a re-survey and to change
registry records.
42.         The second maintenance component would be updating and managing
geographic (cadastral plan and map) and RLC information. An automated information
system which reduces duplication and links relevant data entities, would facilitate
updating. Current efforts to develop a prototype information system for the RLC intend
to take advantage of modem technologies and simplify RLC maintenance.
43.         Historical Archive: Even a modem land information system would
depend upon the Derechos Reales as a juridical backup. Within the integrated land
information system, the folios of the Derechos Reales for each parcel in an area catastrada
would be scanned and stored on optical disc. Each folio would receive a code allowing
for the rapid retrieval of the document's image. The scanned images would be integrated
with the alphanumeric database (digital format of the ficha cadastral). An authorized copy
of these scanned images could be requested. Once RLC is operational, all new registered
documents would be scanned on optical disk and paper originals returned to the owners.
44.         Institutional Framework: INTI and the DNCU (Direccidn Nacional de
Catastro Urbano) would be responsible for developing norms and policies for the rural
and urban cadastres. DNCU would focus on the urban fiscal cadastre, and INTI on the
legal cadastre in both rural and urban areas. The institutions would collaborate closely to
facilitate the eventual conversion of the urban fiscal cadastre into a legal cadastre. INTI
would be directly involved in the implementation of the legal cadastre in rural areas. In
cases where Municipalities choose to implement the rural cadastre themselves, INTI
would provide guidance, setting design and implementation standards to ensure that the
resulting cadastre could be integrated into the legal cadastre.
45.         The roles of both INTI and the Municipalities in the legal cadastre would
be transitory. Once the RLC is operating, all information would be transferred to RLC
and subsequent maintenance of the information would become RLC's duty. As RLC
would be the only source for current, legal information with respect to parcel boundaries
and legally registered land rights, the Municipalities, which would continue to administer a
fiscal cadastre, would have access to RLC data.
46.         Ultimately, RLC would cover urban and rural areas and be guardian of
legal information describing the geographic dimensions of all property parcels, as well as
the nature of land rights and their holders. There would be at least one RLC office in each
department. Additional offices could be set up at more decentralized levels (e.g.,



- 77 -
Municipality or province), depending on the frequency of transactions and viability of
establishing a permanent decentralized RLC office. To increase public assess to the
services of RLC, several local collection offices would be identified. Notaries offices
could serve in as a depository for deeds and cadastral plans to be collected periodically by
RLC emnployee. The Municipal offices could also serve as local depositories, but the need
to separate the registration from the taxation process (and minimize disincentives to
register transactions) makes the Notaries a preferable alternative.
47.         RLC would consist of a legal department, a technical department and an
information department. The legal department would examine incoming documents, such
as new deeds, and address legal questions. The technical department would examine
cadastral plans and ensure that the geographic information entering RLC conforms with
minimum standards. The information department would computerize information and
maintain databases containing cadastral and registry information. This information would
be managed by a geographic information system (GIS).



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Land Settlement Policy
1.           The objectives of the land settlement policies are to: (i) guarantee property
rights of new and former beneficiaries of land adjudication; (ii) take measures to reserve
areas identified as suitable for land settlements; (iii) respond to the pressures of over-
population and farm fragmentation in the Andean region through the establishment of land
settlements; (iv) cooperate and coordinate with other institutions in the consolidation of
existing settlements; and (v) direct new settlements in an equitable, effective and
transparent manner.
2.           These goals would be achieved through five activities: (i) identification of
suitable land; (ii) reservation of land; (iii) land use studies; (iv) selection and preparation of
beneficiaries, and (v) donation of land in basic land allocations . Within the context of the
current interim land administration framework, activities related to land settlement
programs which can be carried out by the Comisi6n de Intervenci6n I include:
(i) identification of lands suitable for land settlement; (ii) reservation of land;
(iii) implementation of land use studies; and (iv) selection and preparation of beneficiaries.
3.           Areas would be considered potential sites for settlement on the basis of
their legal availability, agro-climatic characteristics, soil potential, topography, basic
infrastructure, possibility of service delivery, basic sanitation and distance to markets.
Those lands would be registered in the DDRR and reserved for use in the program.
4.           Program beneficiaries would include: (i) individual farmers seeking new
land; and (ii) existing communities or groups of farmers or other groups which the
Government determines should receive land (e. g., people living in protected areas,
resettled mniners, population settlements near national borders, etc.). In the case of areas
with an exceptionally high agricultural potential, priority would be given to those
individuals or groups: (i) with extensive farming experience; (ii) between 20 and 40 years
old; (iii) in good health; (iv) who are already organized as a group or a community; and
(v) with a relatively high level of education.
5.           Within INTI, the Land Settlement Division (AAHH) would have primary
responsibility for the implementation of the land settlement policies and coordination of
the institutional strategies through the preparation of studies, programs and plans, and
provision of training and orientation.



- 79 -
6.           AAHH would: (i) prepare plans, programs and projects for land
settlement; (ii) evaluate the economic, technical and social capacities of land reserved for
settlement to determine the appropriate land allocation size based on an analysis of soil use
and type, as found in the Land Use Plan (Plan de Uso de la Tierra, PLUT), available
infrastructure and socioeconomic conditions; (iii) analyze needs for basic infrastructure
and services; and (iv) prepare project proposals, and coordinate, with other institutions,
the preparation and execution of basic infrastructure projects in the settlement areas.
7.           AAHH would analyze the following: (i) conditions of the existing
settlements, to identify major bottlenecks to development, coordinate institutional support
to correct these deficiencies and regularize land titles; (ii) economic and social viability of
potential settlement areas given their natural resources, infrastructure and market assess;
and (iii) socioeconomic conditions of rural Andean zones of relatively high net emigration
to identify problems and formulate policy guidelines to support campesino economy. In
addition, the Division would conduct a pilot cadastre survey in selected Andean areas to
increase understanding of land tenancy structure, land conflicts and forms of resolution,
and degree of organization.
8.           With respect to settler training and orientation, AAHH would: (i) inform
and familiarize future colonist of the availability of land and conditions in settlement areas;
supervise settlement programs; (ii) establish and maintain contact with support
organizations; (iii) evaluate the adaptation process of the new settlements and their degree
of social organization; and (iv) coordinate health and environmental campaigns in the
settlements.
9.           Central to INTI policy would be to ensure that settlers are well informed
concerming the conditions, positive and negative, of their future habitat, including those
related to climate, productive activities, health and disease, basic sanitation and housing.
In addition, settlers would become familiar with their legal status, titling requirements, plot
size and methods to measure boundaries. Settlers would also receive information
concerning appropriate and environmentally sustainable technological practices for the
new area, price system of local markets and identification of appropriate markets for
different crops and sources of technical assistance.
10.          AAHH would finance training, to be provided through outside agencies,
including NGOs, to future candidates of public and privately-initiated settlement
programs. Priority for training would be given to those populations living in zones with
adverse climatic conditions, high concentration of small farms, displaced miners or
relatively high incidence of poverty. In addition, training would be given to selected
younger settlers to develop a cadre of rural promoters in the new settlements who could
lead the community in land use management, food production, health campaigns and
developing planning.



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
BOLIVA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINSTRATION PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
1.          Most components of the proposed project are either benign or clearly
beneficial from an environmental standpoint. For example, a major outcome of the project
is expected to be increased land tenure security for many farmers and other landholders.
This would be environmentally beneficial, because persons with secure land tenure rights
are more inclined to use land-conserving practices.
2.          The component requiring special environmental attention is the land
settlements program. This component would facilitate the distribution to small farmers of
certain public lands, along with lands which revert to the public domain as a result of the
project-supported Cat-San process. The extent to which these lands would actually be
settled during the project depends upon ease of access and related factors; lands presently
too remote for settlement would remain in a "land bank" administered by CI or INTI,
upon its establishment, until later allocation. Virtually all of the lands eligible for small
farmer settlement would be in the tropical or sub-tropical Lowlands.
Effects on Deforestation
3.          Land settlement in the tropics is controversial because of the deforestation
and related environmental and social problems which often result. However, the land
settlement program component is not expected to increase deforestation pressures, nor
does it seek to accelerate migration to the Bolivian lowlands.
4.          Colonization of the Eastern and Amazonian Lowlands by immigrants from
the Highland Plateau and the Valleys is an ongoing phenomenon. Presently, new migrants
to the lowlands often settle on lands which are ecologically fragile and poorly suited for
agriculture (particularly in the steep Andean foothills). Some settlement zones are legally
protected areas which lack demarcation or effective enforcement. Some migrants are
squatters on privately-owned land, where they lack tenure security and have no incentive
to invest in good land management. The land settlement program is intended to channel
some of this ongoing colonization pressure away from the more environmentally sensitive
lands and towards lands of good agricultural potential with secure tenure.
5.          Since 1992, the Government has imposed a moratorium on the distribution
(grant or sale) of public land parcels greater than 50 ha. This moratorium was established
(after intensive dialogue with the Bank) to facilitate the development of a more rational,



- 81 -
orderly, and socially equitable system of public land distribution, which is a major
objective of this project. However, the moratorium is widely understood to be a
temporary measure, not a permanent ban on public land distributions. In the absence of
this project, it is likely that public land distributions would resume, but with far fewer
environmental safeguards (see below).
6.          Moreover, the project seeks to ensure that public land parcels which meet
strict environmental criteria would be made available first to small farmers, rather than to
wealthy ones (which has typically been the case to date). It is likely that high-quality
agricultural lands which are outside of legally protected areas and close to roads will be
cleared for agriculture in the foreseeable future (particularly in Santa Cruz Department).
To the extent that such development is inevitable, it is more desirable from a social equity
standpoint that the deforestation be done by small farmers than by wealthy ones.
Environmental Safeguards
7.          To help ensure that the net environmental effects of the project would be
positive, the following environmental safeguards would be adopted. These safeguards
would be incorporated (as appropriate) within: (i) the Land Settlement Manual ; (ii) the
Government Policy Letter (a condition of effectiveness); (iii) the new Land Law and its
implementing regulations; and (iv) directly in the Credit or Project Agreement with IDA.
8.          Environmental Screening of Land Settlements. Prior to allocating any
public (including reverted) lands for grants to small farmers (or, where applicable, land
sales to other farmers), CI or INTI upon its establishment would carry out an
environmental screening process to ensure that the following conditions apply:
(i)    The lands in question must be well-suited for agricultural
development. Public land allocations would be based on the
existing land use plans. As part of the land settlement program
detailed soil studies of each land parcel proposed for settlement
(unless adequate soil information already exists) would also be
carried out. The Land Settlement Manual would specify how the
classification of the land use plans would relate to the intended use
(agriculture, livestock) of the lands.
(ii)    There would be no land settlements or public land sales in areas
occupied by indigenous people or necessary for maintaining their
traditional livelihoods. Those lands which are occupied or used by
indigenous peoples would be identified during the Cat-San process
which would be conducted in collaboration with the National
Indigenous Secretariat (Secretarla Nacional de Asuntos Enicos, de
Genero, y Generacionales) or qualified local indigenous
organizations, as appropriate. The lands found to be occupied or
used by traditional indigenous people would be titled to the relevant



- 82 -
indigenous communities; under no circumstances would these lands
be made available for new settlement.
(iii)    The land must not be needed to fill important ecological gaps in the
National Protected Areas System (SNAP). This screening process
would be carried out with the help of a "Negative List" already
under preparation (as part of the ongoing GEF Biodiversity
Conservation Project) by the National Biodiversity Conservation
Directorate. This list (including maps) would be approved by the
Minister of Sustainable Development and the Environment and
reviewed by the World Bank. It would specify those areas (such as
unique ecosystem types) which are not adequately represented
within the SNAP, and which should therefore: (a) not be made
available for land settlements or sales; and (b) be held in the public
domain until their eventual transfer to the National Biodiversity
Conservation Directorate or other qualified conservation
organizations. Until a definitive "Negative List" is completed, the
allocation of public lands through land settlements or sales would
require an Environmental Impact Assessment to be approved by the
National Secretariat for Natural Resources.
(iv)    No public lands would be allocated through grants or sales within
the officially designated buffer zone specified in the management
plan of any officially protected area. In case an officially designated
buffer zone does not exist, no public land parcel would be granted
or sold by the Government within five km of any official protected
area.
(v)   In the case of Santa Cruz Department, lands would not be available
for small farmer grants or sales if they lie within the zones
designated as "Forest", "Existing Protection", or "Proposed
Protection" under the official land use plan (PLUT). The Santa
Cruz PLUT was developed under the Eastern Lowlands Natural
Resources Management and Agricultural Production Project
(Credit No. 21 19-BO). In the future, if other land use plans are
approved by other departments and/or at the national level, land
settlements and sales would be made fully consistent with those
plans.
9.          Selection of Settlers. In the selection of potential settlers for the land
settlement program (in cases where excess demand for the lands exists), special
consideration would be given to persons who currently live within "zones of
environmental conflict" (including long-established squatters within protected areas). This
approach is expected to enhance further the environmental benefits of this project, by
reducing existing land pressures within environmentally sensitive areas.



- 83 -
10.         Land Parcel Size. Settlers in the Latin American tropics have historically
been allocated relatively large land parcels, which has reinforced their tendency to select
extensive land uses (such as cattle pastures rather than more labor-intensive perennial
crops). To promote more efficient land use, the basic unit of land allocation in the land
settlement program would be determined through technical criteria based on the following
objectives: (i) to ensure that every participating family has enough land to build a future
for one generation; (ii) to maximize the number of beneficiary families on the lands
available for distribution; and (iii) to minimize the land area deforested per fhmily.
11.         Titling of Indigenous Lands. The project would substantially benefit
indigenous people by providing valid, well-defined land titles to many indigenous
communities. In the process, the need for a sufficient land base to enable the continuation
of traditional production systems (including hunting, fishing, gathering, and shifting
cultivation) would be carefully considered. In the case of indigenous communities which
receive communal land titles (in accordance with Convention 169 of the International
Labor Organization), INTI would develop regulations and procedures to help prevent
fraud or other abuses if the indigenous communities elect to rent out their lands to
outsiders (e.g., for lumbering or ranching).
12.         Avoiding Perverse Incentives For Deforestation. Land titling
procedures in Latin American countries are often blamed for creating "perverse
incentives" which encourage (or even require) deforestation to consolidate private land
claims. To avoid this problem, the new Land Law and Forestry Law are expected to state
clearly that deforestation is neither necessary nor sufficient for obtaining new land titles,
nor for protecting existing, legally valid titles. Even if these new laws do not deal with
this issue adequately, the Government has specified its commitment to avoid rewarding
new or recent deforestation in its land titling policies and procedures. Aerial photography
would be used to establish a benchmark for the determination of actual land use.
13.         Land Policy Analysis Unit. The new Land Policy Analysis Unit (Unidad
de Analisis de Politica de Tierras, UDAPTI) in the Ministry of Environmentally
Sustainable Development would be a high-level advisory body on national land policy
issues. To help ensure adequate consideration of environmental issues in its work,
UDAPTI would have at least one natural resources management specialist (such as a
biologist, ecologist, or forester). This requirement is specified in the terms of reference
for establishing the UDAPTI.



SUMCOM.XLS
National Land Administration Protect
Components Project Cost Summary
(Bs Million)                                (US$ Mlillion)
%     %Total                                %      %Total
Foreign   Bass                              Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total Exchange  Costs
A. Apoyo al Sisterm de Administraclon de Tlerrms
1 Asistencia Tecnica al Reforma Legal y Pollica de Tierras                                             1.5     0.5      2.0       25        2      0.3      01       0.4       25        2
2. Mejoramiento Sistema de Administraclon de T1erras
Apoyo a Ia Intervencion Nacional                                                                   18.8      2.5    21.3        12       19      41       0 5      4.6       12       19
Saneamiento de la Propiedad Agraria                                                                 9.6    30.4    40 0         76       36      2.1      6.6    867         76      36
Subtotal Mejoramlento Slstema do Administraclon do Terras                                            28.4    32 9      61.3       54       55      6.2      71      13 3       54       55
3 ldentffscadon y Reserva de terras Fiscales                                                          6.1      0.5      6 6        7        6      1.3    0o1        1.4        7        6
4. Mejoramiento del Sistema de Regislro de la Propiedad Agraria                                       3.9      2.2      6.1       36        5      0 8      0.5      1.3       36       5
Subtotal Apoyo al Sistema do Administraclon de Tlorras                                                 40.0    36 0      76 0       47       68      8.7      7.8    16.5        47      68
B. Consolldaclon de los camblos *structurales en Ststems de Administraclon do Tibrras
1 Apoyo al establecimiento y lortalecimiento del INTI                                                202               202                 18      44               44          -      18
2 EjecuccdondetCATSAN                                                                                 2.1      0.6      2.7       22        2      04       01      06         22       2
3 Asenlamientos Humanos                                                                               1.8      0.4      2.2       1a        2      0.4      0.1      0.5       18       2
4. Apoyo al establecimierto y ortelacimiento del RCL                                                  9.3      1.1    10.4        10        9      2.0      0 2     2.3        10       9
Subtotal Consolidaclon de los camblos estructurales an Sistema de Adminlstraclon de Thorras            33.4      2 1     35.5        6       32      7.3      0.4      7.7        6       32
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                    73.4    38.1   111.5         34      100     15.9      8.3    24.2       34      100          8
Phryscal CWntingernces                                                                                2.9      3.7      6.6       56        6      0.6      0.8     1.4        56       6          | 
fll
Pnce Cortrnencies                                                                                    10.3    10.0    20.3         49       18      0.5      1.2     1.6        71       7          n
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                                     86.6    51.8   138.4         37     124      17.0    10.2    27.2        3d      113
0
0



LFTFIN.XLS
Bolivia
National Land Administration Prolect
LocallForeignlTaxes by Financiers
(USS Million)
IDA          Government          Total
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %
1. Foreign                      10.2   100.0        -       -    10.2    37.5
It. Local (Excl. Taxes)         10.2    75.7      3.3    24.3    13.5    49.6
Ill. Taxes                        -        -      3.5   100.0      3.5    12.9
Total Project                     20.4    75.1      6.8    24.9    27.2   100.0
00
fl



DISFIN.XS
Nationl Land A&*Ieatkn Pnojet
Disbursement Accounts by Fnaiers
(US$ Millon)
Local
IDA          Government           Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %       Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
1. CMI Works                  0.6    89.2      0.1     10.8      0.7     2.5      0.3      0.3      0.1
2. Equipment                  1.1    85.0      0.2 .  15.0       1.3     4.8      1.0      0.1      0.2
3. Training                   0.6    90.1      0.1      9.9      0.7     2.4      0.2      0.4      0.0
4.ServiceContracts           10.1    85.0      1.8    15.0    11.8    43.5        8.3      1.8      1.8
5. Consultants                2.8    80.9      0.7    19.1       3.5    12.9      0.4      2.7      0.5
6. Salaries /a                3.1    47.4      3.5    52.6       6.6    24.2        -      5.8      0.8
7. Other Recurrent            2.1    79.4      0.5    20.6       2.6     9.7        -      2.5      0.2
Total                          20.4    75.1       6.8    24.9    27.2   100.0    10.2    13.5          3.5
la IDA finances 85% and 75% of incremental salaries in years 1-2 and 3-4 respectively. Incremental salaries are estimated at 60% of total salaries.
00



EXCMTFXLs
Bolivia
National Land Administraton Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Apoyo al Sistema de
Apoyo al Sistema de Administracion de Tierras    Administracion de Tierras    Consolidaclon de los cambios estructurales en Sistema de
Asistencia    Mejoramiento Sistema de                   Mejoramiento                  Administracion de Tierras
Tecnica al    Administracion de Tierras                  del Sistema     Apoyo al                                    Apoyo al
Reforma                  Saneamiento  Identificacion   de Registro   establecimiento                             establecimiento
Legal y    Apoyo a la       de ia       y Reserva de      de la            y                                           y
Politica    Intervencion    Propiedad     Tierras       Propiedad   fortalecimiento  Ejecuccion Asentamientos  fortelacimiento
de Tierras    Nacional       Agraria       Fisca1es       Agraria         del INTI    del CATSAN    Humanos          del RCL       Total
i. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                -            0.1             -                                                  -                                    0.6      0.7
B. Equipment
Computers                                 0.0            0.3           0.0               -          0.3                -0.0                                               0.7
Fumiture                                    -            0.1             -              -           0.0                -           -              -                -     0.1
Vehicles                                    -            0.2           0.1              -           0.1                -           -              -                      0.3
Other Equipment                           0.0            0.1                     -                  0.1                -         0.0                               -     0.2
Subtotal Equipment                          0.0            0.6           0.1              -           0.6                          0.0              -              0.0     1.3
C. Training
Courses                                   0.1            0.1           0.1             0.2          0.1                -           -              -                -     0.5
Material                                                 0.0            -                           0.0                -           --                                    0.0
Other Activies                                             -           0.1              -           0.0                                                            -     0.1
Subtotal Training                           0.1            0.1           0.2            0.2           0.1                -           -              -               -      0.7
D. Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                               
Local Consultants                         0.2            1.1           0.3              -           0.0              1.1         0.4              -                -     3.1
Expatriate Consultants                    0.1            0.0           0.2              -           0.0                -         0.2              -               -      0.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance               0.3            1.1           0.5              -           0.1              1.1         0.6              -               -      3.5
E. ServiceContracts                         0.0                         10.1             1.3            -                -         0.0            0.4              0.0    11.8
Total Investment Costs                        0.4            1.9          10.8             1.5          0.7              1.1         0.6            0.4              0.7    18.0
iI. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel
Salaries                                    -            2.0                            -           0.6              2.5                          -              1.5     6.6
Allowances                                0.0            0.3           0.0             0.1          0.0              0.4         0.0            0.1              0.0      1.0
Subtotal Personnel                          0.0            2.3           0.0            0.1           0.6              2.8         0.0            0.1              1.5     7.5
B. Operating Costs
Equipment O&M                               -            0.1           0.0               -          0.0              0.1         0.0              -              0.1     0.4
Other Operating Costs                       -            0.5           0.0               -          0.1              0.6         0.0              -              0.2      1.3
Subtotal Operating Costs                      -            0.6           0.0               -          0.1              0.7         0.0              -              0.2      1.7
Total Recurrent Costs                         0.0            2.9           0.0             0.1           0.7             3.5         0.0            0.1              1.8      9.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           0.5             4.8         10.8             1.6           1.4              4.6         0.6            0.5             2.4    27.2
Taxes                                       0.0            0.6           1.6             0.2           0.2             0.5         0.1            0.1              0.3      3.5
Foreign Exchange                            0.1            0.6           8.4             0.1           0.5               -         0.1            0.1              0.3    10.2



COMYIR.XLS
Boliva
National Land Administration Praiect
Prolect Components by Year - InvestmentVRecurrent Costs
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
A. Apoyo ol Sistema de Administraclon de Theffas
1. Aslstencla Tecnica al Reforma Legal y Politc. de Therras
Investment Costs                                                                                    0.4                -       -      0.4
Recurrent Costs                                                                                     0.0                               0.0
Subtotal Asistencl Tecnlce al Rteforma Legal y Polltica do Tibrras                                    0.5                        -      0.5
2. Mejoramiento Slstoma de Administraclon de Thnrras
Apoyo a a Intervenclon Naclonal
Investment Costs                                                                                  1.1     0.7     0.0      0.0     1.9
Recurrent Costs                                                                                   1.3     1.5       -        -      2.9
Subtotal Apoyo a la Intervenclon Nactonal                                                           2.5     2.2     0.0      0.0      4.8
Saneamlento do Is Propledad Agrarla
Investment Costs                                                                                  2.2     3.1     2.6      2.8    10.8
Recurrent Costs                                                                                   0.0     0.0                      0.0
Subtotal Saneamiento de la Proplhdad Agrarla                                                        2.2     3.1      2.6     2.8    10.8
Subtotal Mejoramhento S1stoma de Administraclon do Thorras                                            4.7     5.4      2.7     2.8    15.6
3. Identficaclon y R"esrva de Tlerras Fiscales
Investment Costs                                                                                    0.3     0.3     0.3      0.6      1.5
Recurrent Costs                                                                                     0.1     0.1        -       -      0.1
Subtotal Identtncaclon y Reserve de Tierras FIscalbs                                                  0.3     0.4     0.3      0.6      1.6
4. MeJorumlento del Sstema de Registro do Ia Propledad Agrara                                                                                                                           I
Investment Costs                                                                                            0.6     0.0      0.0     0.7                                               00
Recurrent Costs                                                                                      0-       7       -        -      0.7                                              
Subtotal M.joramlento del Skstema de Registro do Ia Propledad Agrarab                                         1.3     0.0      0.0      1.4
Subtotal Apoyo al Ststema do Administraclon de TYeffas                                                  5.5     71      3.0      3.4    19.0
B. Consolidaclon de los camblos estructurales on Sstema de Administraclon de Tlhrras
1. Apoyo al establecimlonto y tot leclmlento del INTI
Investment Costs                                                                                              -     0.5      0.5      1.1
Recurrent Costs                                                                                                      17      1.8      3.5
Subtotal Apoyo al osbbleclmlento y fortalecimlnto del INTI                                                             2.2     2.4      4.6
2. Ejocucclon del CATSAN
Irvestment Costs                                                                                              -     0.3      0.3      0.6
Recurrent Costs                                                                                                     0.0      0 0      0.0
Subtotal Ejecucclon del CATSAN                                                                                  -      03      0.3      0.6
3. Asontamlentos Humanos
Investmernt Costs                                                                                                    0.2     0.2      0.4
Recurrent Costs                                                                                                      01      0.1      0.1
Subtotal Asentamlentos Humanos                                                                                         0.2     0.3      0.5
4. Apoyo at stableelmlento y fortelacimlento del RCL
Investmerit Costs                                                                                                    0.3     0.3      0.7
Recurrent Costs                                                                                                      09      0.9      18
Subtotal Consolidaclon do Is camblos estructurales an Slstema de Administraclon de Therras                    -          4 0     4.1      8.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                                      5.5     71      71       7.6    27.2
Total Inrestrent Costs                                                                                4.1     4.8      4.4     4.8    18.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                1i5      2.3      2.7     2.8      9.2



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$ million)
Cumulative        Standard        Cumulative
IDA FY and   Disbursement by    Cumulative    D um e                          Standard
Disbursement as   Disbursement        Standard
-  Semester         Semester       Disbursement
% of Credit      Profile (%)     Disbursement
1996 1           1.0              1.0                5                3               0.6
11        2.0              3.0                15               10              2.0
1997 1           2.0              5.0               25               14               2.9
11        2.0              7.0                34               18              3.7
1998 I           3.0             10.0               49               34              6.9
11        3.0             13.0                64               42              8.6
1999 1           2.1             15.1               74               50              10.2
11        2.1             17.2               84                66             13.5
2000  1          1.2             18.4               90               74              15.1
11         1.0            19.4                95               78             15.9
2001  1          1.0             20.4              100               86              17.5
II                                                             94             19.2
2002  1                                                              98              20.0
11                                                           100              20.4
TOTAL              20.4
Credit effectiveness, completion and closing dates assumed to be August 31, 1995, June 30, 2001, and December 31,
2001 respectively.
Standard disbursement profile is derived from OPD, August, 1993 and refers to Bolivia agricultural projects only.
24.0       -
22.0       -
20.0                                                                              x- x
18.0       -
"0 16.0 ;
14.0 
0
1996  1996      1997       1999       1999       2000       2001       2002
{1      Project Profile    ~ <    Standard Profile



- 90 -
ANNEX 10
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B.  Implementation Schedule
C. Procurement Plan
D. Supervision Plan



- 91 -
A. Project Implementation Plan
Activity                      j   Unit         Completion         Completed at the end of Project
I             I    Date                            Year
A. Land Administration Enhancement                                                      1           2           3         4
TechnicalAssistancefor the Formulation of a New Legal
Framework and Land Policy
(linplementation: MDSMA)
1. Legislative Agenda
INTI Law - Presentaion to IDA                                      Sep-95
- Presetion to Congress                                  Dec-95
Land Law - Preseration to IDA                                      Sep 97
- Presentatin to Congress                                Dec-97
Legal Cadstre and Registry Law -
- Presntation to IDA                                   Sept-96
- Presentation to Congress                             Dec-96
Regulations                                                        Six months after
law approval by
Congre
2. Land Policy Studies
Policy Studies                                                                              5
Monitoring Studies                                                                          2
Seminars and Work s                                                                         3 
Land Management improvement and Cadastre
(Implementation: Cl)
1. Strengthening Of Cl
Appointment of the Management                       pesonm         Jun-96                  18
Appointment incental staff                          %                                    70%/o        80%
Strengthening Departbent Offices                    office                                  2           2
Establiahment Regional Offices                      office                                  7            2
Appointment of Cociliadores Agrarios                penoa                                  14
Rehabilitation Cental Office                        USS                                50,000       50,000
Purchae of vehicles                                 USS                               100,000
Purchase of motorcycles                             number                                  9           10
Purchase Equipment for Central Office               USS                                88,000
Purchase equipmnt for Departmental Offices          USS                               293,700       85,000
Technical Traning (Caes)                            month                                   2            2
Computer Training                                   month                                   6            4
Coordination Workshp with Registry                  workshop                                3            2
Training for Regional Office                        course                                  9           19
Establisxnat of UCAP                                               Sep-95
2. Clarification and Systomatization of Land Tenure
Recruitment of Tedical Assistance                                Jun-95
Identification of priority aea  (3 million ha)                   Sep-95
Tern  of Refeence for Aerial Photography                         Sep-95
TenT of Refrnece for cadasre works                               Sep-95
Public Tender for Arial Photography (1.5 mil. ha)                Dec-95
Public Tender for Cadastre Works                                 Dec-95
Aerial Phoogaphy                                  1,000 ha                              750         750
ImplemenAation Cadastre Works                     1,000 ha                              350         650      1,000     1,000
Identification of Conflict of Overlapping Titles
in priority                                                      Sep-96
Solving of overiapping title conflicts etc.       peret                                             25%
Idetification of problens of Land Grants                         Sep-96
in Clasified Ares
Solving ofthe above conflicts                     peren                                           25%
Training of the private ector in urveying         workshop                                8            8
3. Identification of Public Lanb for Land Settlements
Studies and Evaluation                            value                              54,000      81,000
Identification of Lad Suitable for Land Settlements              Dec-95
Public Tender for Survey Works                                   Mar-96
Reserve and Survey Works                          1,000 ha                              100         100        100       200
Identification an Selection of beneficiary familic  fanily                                         2000



- 92 -
Project Im  lementati n Plan (Con tinued)
Activity                           Unit       Completion        Completed at the End of Project Year
_____ ____    D ate       _  _  _    _  _ _  _                  _ _  _ _
1          2            3            4
Sir-ngthening of the PropertyRegistry
(Implerntation: Derew Reales)
Puchae of Equipment                                value                                       419,760
Public Tendr for OIS Eipmit                                       Mar-97
Staff Training                                     pecm                                             49
Training                                           month                                             4
Reception of Vehicles                              USS                                           75,000
Recruitent of Profional and Managemend Staff       pean           Dec-96                             19
Recruitment odhr sff                               pe                        _    _                 70
B. Implementation of the Legal and Institutional Reforms
iTl
(Inplemnntation: INTI)
Appointmt of Incranental Staff                     %                                                            90%         100%
Full opertion ofthe Regional Offices               office                                                          5
Stre   eg ofthe Regioal Oficme                     offioe                                                         3
Trinin Cuss                                        month                                                          2
Coorination Wakshops with RLC                      workbbop                                                        1
Trining ofthe Regional Offices                      workshop                                                      10
CATSAN
(bnyementation: IrN)
Area declaed  catastrad"                            1,000 ha                                                   1,500        1,500
Solving of Conflidi reated to Doubl Titlinge dc.   pecat                                                        35%          40%
Solving of Land Grat Conflics etc.                 pecent                                                       35%          40%
Training of Private Surveyors                      workshop                                                       4             4
Land Grant Schemes
(lmp e.Aaon: ITI)
Studies ad EvaYwiomU                               value                                                     108,000      108,000
Traing offuture Settles                            wrkshop                                                       24            27
liucriion                                           1,000 ha                                                    200           300
Idtification and Selecion of Beeeficiary Families  family                                                      4,000        4,000
Sedtlement oFumnilis                               faily                                                       5,000        5,000
Orientation of the Beneficiaries                   wrkahop                                                       24            27
Provision of bsic infagrwtire nd healh services to the
sdalea                                               anily                                                     5000          5000
RLC
(Inaplantation: RLC)
Etablishnent of the Ceatml Office                  office         Jan-97                                           1
Edeablis;unt ofthe De _zmma Officea                office         Jan-97                                          2             2
Reruitmat ofthe Ndaonal Director                   peon           Dec-97                                           I
Recruitment of Staff                               pers           Dec-97                                         21
Pureha  and recpi  of 0IS Equipmt                  value          Dec-97                                      30,000
Regisration of Ares                                 1,000 ha                                                   1,500        1,500



1995        1996          1997      1998        1999        2000         20
ID    Name                                                                                         Q1IQ2|Q3|Q4JQ1IQ2|Q3|Q4Q1IQ2|Q3|               Q4              Q1IQ2
1     ASISTENCA TECNICA A LA REFORMA LEGAL                                                    -          -
2        Ly del INTI
3             Elaborar Decrotos Reglamentarios de la Lay del INTI
4             Presentar al ParHamento la Lcy del INTI
5             Aprobaci6n de la Lay del INTI
6        Ley del RCL_ 
7             Elaborer Decretos Reglamentarios de la Ley del RCL
a             Presenter al Parlamento la Ley de RCL
9             Aprobaci6n de la Lay del RCL
10       Ly do raerras
1 1           Elaborar Decretos Reglomentarios de la Lay do Tierras
12            Presentar al Parlemento la Lay do Tiorras                                                / /
13            Aprobeci6n de la Lay de Tiorras                                                                                                                                ft
14        Unidad de Anali ie de Politicoe de Tibrras
15            Contrataci6n de 4 consultores
16            Acordar agenda de trebajo con el Ministro de MDSMA                                                                                                             5ft
17            Compra de Equipos
18            Estudios
19    MEJORAMIENTO DEL SISTEMA DE LA ADMINISTRACION DE TIERRAS                                                                                                               U
20        Apoyo a la Intervendo6n Nacional
21            Contretaci6n personal direccion ejacutiva
22            Contratacion del personal incremental (70%)                                          f|
23            Contrataci6n del personal incremental (80%)
24            Obres civiles
25            Pleno funcionarriento de las oficinas en Sta. Cruz, La Paz
26            Pleno funcionamiento de las oficinas en Chuquisaca y Cochabamba
27            Plono funcionamiento de las oficinas regionales (9)
28            Recepci6n de vehiculos
Project: Land Admninistration Project    Critical                   Progress                       Summary
Date: 12/22/94                       Noncritical                    Milestone  *                    Rolled Up O
Page 1



1995 6      1996   1   1997          1998        1 999   1   2000   1  20
ID    Name                                                                                 Q2JQ30Q40Q10Q2|03|0401Q2 Q30Q40Q1|Q2|0304              0Q41Q1|Q2JQ30Q4JQ1 Q2
29            Recepci6n de motocicletas
30            Recepci6n de equipos para la oficina central
31            Recepci6n de aquipos para las oficinas deptales
32            Capacitaci6n t6cnica
33            Capacitaci6n informatica
34            Talleres de coordinaci6n con DDRR/RCL
35            Capacitaci6n pere las oficinas regionales
36            Establecimiento de la UCAP
37            Funcionamiento de la UCAP
38        Saneamlonto                                                                                                                            ' 
39            Reclutamiento de la asistancia tecnica de la Unidad de Manejo
40            Funcionamiento de la Unidad de Manejo
41            Consolidar los resultados del proyacto piloto
42            Compre de equipo y vehiculos
43            Identificaci6n de areas priorizadas (3 millones de ha)
44            Definici6n de un mocanismo de la recuperaci6n de los gastos
45            Definici6n de ireas quo requieren fotografla Area
46            Terminos de reforencia pare la licitaci6n publica de la fotograffa dree
47            Liciteci6n puiblica para la fotografla area (1,500,000 ha)
48            Ejecucfon de la fotogreffa area
49            Terminos de referencia para Ia Iicitaci6n puiblica del lovantamiento catastral
50            Licitaci6n publica del levantamiento catastral (3,000,000 ha)
51            Ejecuci6n del levantamiento catastral
52            CampaCa publica
53            Seminarios de capacitaci6n pare la agrimensura privada
54       ldentificaci6n de tiorram fiacalsa para A.A.H.H.
55            Elaboracl6n de un manual para A.A.H.H.
56                Definici6n do la politica y estrategia de A.A.H.H.
Project: Land Administration Project    Critical        tZ///////////////// Progress                Summary
Date: 12122/94                       Noncritical                     Milestone           *Rolled UpO
Page 2



1995   z       1996     1997        1998         1999    1  20001    20
ID    Name                                                                                  Q2JQ3JQ4JQ1 Q2|03lQ4jQ1 Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4JQ1|Q2|
57                Definici6n de las Unidades B1sicas de Dotaci6n
58                Definici6n de criterios de eligibilidad para los beneficiarios
59                Definici6n de los filtros ambientales
60                Definici6n de un mecanismo de la recuperaci6n de los gastos
61            Estudios y Evaluaciones
62            ldentificaci6n de tierras aptas para A.A.H.H. (500,000 ha)
63            T6rminos de referencia para la licitaci6n puzblica del levantamiento catastral
64            Licitaci6n publica del levantamiento catastral (500,000 ha)
65            Ejecuci6n del levantamiento catastral
66            Coordinaci6n y concertaci6n de acciones con diferentes instancias sobre A.A.H.H.
67            Identificaci6n y selecci6n de familias beneficiadas
68    MEJORAMIENTO DEL SISTEMA DEL REGISTRO (D.D.R.R.i
69        Reclutamiento del personal directivo y profesional (119 personas)
70        Reclutamiento otros empleados (70 personas)
71        Licitaci6n puiblica del GIS
72        Compra de Equipos y Vehfculos                                                                            3 
73        Cursos al personal
74        Capacitaci6n
75    APOYO AL ESTABLECIMIENTO DEL INTI
76        Cantratacifn del personal incremental (90%)
77        Contrataci6n del personal incremental (100%)
78        Piano funcionelento do nas oficinas departamentales (5)
79        Piano funcionamiento de las oficinas regionales (3)
80        Cursos do entranamiento
81        Tallores do coordinacin con RCL
82        Capacitaci6n oficinas regionales
83        Funcionamiento UCAP
84    EJECUCION DEL CATASTRO-SANEAMIENTO ICATSAN|
Projact: Land Administration Project |  Criticai    SZ/////////////////2   Progress                 Summary 3
Date: 12/22/94           |Noncritical                                Milestone           ORolled UpO
Page 3



1995        1996        1997        1998         1999        2000        2
ID    Name                                                                                  Q2|Q3|Q4Q|Q2|3Q4QQ2Q3Q4QQQ3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4QlQ213Q4QjJQ
85        Funcionamiento Unidad de Manejo
86        Campana piublica
87        Seminarios do capacitaci6n para la agrimensura privada
88    ASENTAMIENTOS HUMANOS
89        Estudios y Evaluaciones
90        Coordinaci6n y concertaci6n do acciones con diferentes instancias sobre A.A.H.H.
91        Inscripci6n
92        Identificacion y selecci6n do families beneficiadas
93        Asentamientos de families
94        Oriantaci6n a los beneficiarios
95    APOYO AL ESTABLECIMIENTO DEL REGISTRO CATASTRO LEGAL
96        Reclutamiento del director nacional
97        Reclutamiento otros empleados (21 personas)
98        Obras civiles
99        Cursos al personal
100        Capacitaci6n
101       Instaleci6n del GIS
102        Registro de 6reas
Project: Land Administration Project    | Critical    5///////////////a Progress                    Summary
Date: 12/22/94            |Noncritical                               Milestone                      Rolled UpO
Page 4



I I _PPROCUREMENT PLAN _ _
COM_________NENTS______1995                                                                                             1 996
COMPON SMont   J   F   M    A   M   J    IJ  IA   S  10   N    D    J   F    M   A   M   J   IJ   A   S  O       N   0
TEIOER FOR EaIUBiT AND V-EHIC -ES                                                                             5                                         -
- PUSLCATION AND TENDER
*EVALUA7ION1
-CONTPACT AWARD                                                    j~-                                                             
DEUVERY= =                                           |                       ,..,,    = _,,5*5 :5_ =                  _ _ _             _    _ -
TERO~ FOR CWL WOWS                         -= - =:.. *        ..j!j . e ,:-.,......Ii        :   _   =   =
- EcRUITMENT OF DESIGN ENGINEERtS-                             I
-DESIGNJ                                                               j
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS         -   - :       - _                              _-
-ADVERTISING AND TEND)ER 
EVALUATION                               =         =-                              -                -                          _
CONTRACT AWARD)                          --Od.
CONSTRUCTION               _-.,...5                                                                                                                  > ,_..
FECXMErff OF I CONSULTANTS
TB0ER FOR 0GB SYSTHI (FIDDMIFt                                            I
RECmRUfMENT OF GIS DES4GN ENGINEERtS                             I        I
DESIGN OF GIS SYSTEM                         -          8B  --!           3 3           l I                             = _                             =
TENDER FOR GIS SYSTEM                                                 I
DOCUMENT PREPARATION                     - 5
ADVEFMSI G AND TENDER                                    3                   ..:.                 | | | |             = = = =              L=
EVALUATION                                                     :::j:::::.J.-                  - - - - - -
CONTRACT AWARD) 
IWSTALLATION AND TRAINING   _     - -                                           f _ _ _.                                            - - - - I
RtECRUITMENT OF CONSULTANTS DOFRA                                                             ~**.
TEII FOFI CADASTRE SE}VICE 
DOCUMENT PRPARATIONf f
FIRST ADVERnISING AND TENDER                                 .j j
EVALUATIONI
SECONDO TENDER
EVALUATION AND CONTRACT AWARD
-START OF CONTPACT                 - - - . - -                   *    - - -          f       .,r %                    wv-
TERI  FOR TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEYORS                                           -   -                      - l                       .*.*.*    .
RECITETCATEAM                               .... .........
________.t l---. I--     t l                                       I I I I I I           



- 98 -
D.   Supervision Plan
MONTH                  DURATION           ACTIVITY            SKILLS REQUIRED
(SW)
Effectiveness - 1 month              2     Mission preparing        Task Manager
effectiveness
Effectiveness +3 months              3     Regular Supervision       Task Manager
Mission                  Procurement Specialist
Effectiveness + 6 months             5     Regular Supervision       Task Manager
Mission                  Social Scientist
Environmentalist
Financial Analyst
Effectiveness + 1 2 months           6     First Year               Task Manager
Implementation Review    Financial Analyst
Legal Specialist
Effectiveness + 1 8 months           3     Regular Supervision       Task Manager
Mission
Procurement Specialist
Effectiveness + 24 months            8     Mid-Term Review           Task Manager
Financial Analyst
Social Scientist
Environmentalist
Legal Specialist
Effectiveness + 30 months            2     Regular Supervision       Task Manager
Mission
Effectiveness + 36 months            4     Regular Supervision       Task Manager
Mission                  Financial Analyst
Land Tenure Specialist
Effectiveness + 42 months            3     Regular Supervision      Task Manager
Mission                  Sociologist
Effectiveness +48 months             3     End of Project            Task Manager
Supervision              Land Tenure Specialist
Effectiveness + 54 months            6     Implementation            Task Manager
Completion               Consultants
Review
Total Mission Time       weeks      43
Supervision at
headquarters
Task Manager             weeks      32
Procurement Specialist   weeks       6
Total Supervision Time   weeks      81



- 99 -
ANNEX 11
BOLWVA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
1.          International Cadastral Expert
Terms of Reference:
Institutional and Legal: (i) to provide the main technical assistance in
establishing the Direcci6n de Informaci6n Geogrdfica within CIILNTI and its separation
into DDRR/RLC; (ii) to function together with the registry-expert as the principal
consultant for the establishment of the RLC; (iii) to guide the decentralization process of
CL/INTl and DDRR/RLC; (iv) to give specific technical assistance in the elaboration of
the new legal framework for INTI and RLC; and (v) to maintain the necessary inter-
institutional contacts within and outside the country.
Technical: (i) to assist the Project in cadastral issues concerning the Cat-
San-process; (ii) to be responsible for organizing the execution of the Cat-San-process in
coordination with the registry-expert, the national consultants and the national
counterpart; (iii) to prepare LCB and ICB for any technical activity within the project;
(iv) to coordinate the supervision of the Cat-San-process and the quality of the technical
data gathered (with the national counterpart); (v) to guide the transfer of the cadastral-
information from INTI into RLC; (vi) to be responsible for the technical supervision of
acquiring the aerial photography; and (vii) to participate actively in the preparation and the
execution of (on-the-job) training activities
Profile:
- International experience in project implementation of at least seven years.
- To be able to support the project with innovative development of ideas.
- Management skills.
- University-degree in surveying, mapping and cadastral-systems, or equal.
- Comprehensive professional experience and especially in: cadastral related fields;
surveying; mapping; land registration.
- Familiarity with geodetic engineering techniques, principles of data management;
and institutional development.
- Willing to travel extensively within the country.
- Fluent in Spanish and excellent communication skills.



- 100-
2.    International Registry Expert
Terms of Reference:
Institutional and Legal: (i) to provide the main legal assistance in
establishing the Direcci6n de Informacion Geografica within CLINTl and its separation
into DDRR/RLC; (ii) to function together with the cadastral-expert as the principal
consultant for the establishment of the RLC; (iii) to guide de decentralization process of
CI/INTI and DDRR/RLC; (iv) to give technical assistance in the elaboration of the new
legal framework for INTI and RLC; (v) to provide legal assistance to INTI in issues
related to the management of land-related data in its inter-institutional context; and (vi) to
maintain the necessary inter-institutional contacts within and outside the country.
Technical: (i) to assist the Project in registry issues concerning the Cat-
San-process; (ii) to be responsible for organizing the execution of the Cat-San-process in
coordination with the cadastral-expert, the national consultants and the national
counterpart; (iii) to prepare LCB and ICB for any activity within the project; (iv) to
coordinate with the national counterpart the supervision of the Cat-San-process and the
quality of the legal data gathered; (v) to provide legal advice on specific issues in the field;
(vi) to guide the transition of the registry and cadastral information from INTI into RLC;
and (vii) to participate actively in the preparation and the execution of (on-the-job)-
training activities.
Profile:
- International experience in project implementation of at least seven years.
- To be able to support the project with innovative development ideas.
- Management skills.
- University-degree in land-law or related fields or equal.
- Comprehensive professional experience and especially in: land-registration
related fields; land-law expertise and experience within the civil-code system.
- Familiarity with cadastral aspects within land-registration and institutional
development aspects.
- Willing to travel extensively within the country.
- Fluent in Spanish and excellent communication skills.
3.    National Cadastral Expert
Terms of Reference:
Institutional and Legal: (i) to provide the main technical assistance in
establishing the Direcci6n de Informaci6n Geografica within INTI and its separation into
RLC; (ii) to function together with the international expert for the establishment of the
RLC; (iii) to guide de decentralization process of INTI and RLC; (iv) to give specific
technical assistance in the elaboration of the new legal framework for INTI and RLC; and



- 101 -
(v) to maintain extensive communication with IGM and urban cadastral activities within
the country.
Technical: (i) to assist the Project in cadastral issues concerning the Cat-
San-process; (ii) to assist in the execution of the Cat-San-process in coordination with the
registry-expert, the international consultants and the national counterpart; (iii) to assist in
the preparation of LCB and ICB for any technical activity within the project; (iv) to
execute the supervision of the Cat-San-process and the quality of the technical data
gathered; (v) to provide technical advice on specific issues in the field; (vi) to assist in the
transition of the cadastral-information from INTI into RLC; (vii) to execute the technical
supervision of acquiring the aerial photography; (viii) to participate actively in the
preparation and the execution of (on-the-job) training activities.
Profile:
- Experience in project implementation (preferably international projects).
- To be able to support the project with innovative development of ideas.
- Management skills.
- Degree in surveying, mapping and cadastral-systems, or equal.
- A good knowledge of the countries rural area.
- Comprehensive professional experience and especially in: cadastre related fields;
surveying; mapping.
- Familiarity with land registration; institutional development; geodetic engineering
techniques; and principles of data-management.
- Willingness to travel extensively within the country.
- Basic knowledge of English and excellent communication skills.
4.    National Registry Expert
Terms of Reference:
Institutional and Legal: (i) to provide the main legal assistance in
establishing the Direcci6n de Informaci6n Geogr4dfca within INTI and its separation into
RLC; (ii) to function together with the international expert in the establishment of the
RLC; (iii) to assist in the decentralization process of INTI and RLC; (iv) to give technical
assistance in the elaboration of the new legal framework for INTI and RLC; (v) to provide
legal assistance to INTI in issues related to the management of land-related data in its
inter-institutional context; and (vi) to maintain extensive conmnunication and assist in the
coordination-activities with DDRR.
Technical: (i) to assist the Project in registry issues concerning the Cat-
San-process; (ii) to assist in the execution of the Cat-San-process in coordination with the
cadastral-expert, the national consultants and the national counterpart; (iii) to assist in the
preparation of LCB and ICB for any activity within the project; (iv) to provide supervision
of the Cat-San-process and the quality of the legal data gathered; (v) to provide legal



- 102 -
advice on specific issues in the field; (vi) to assist with the transition of the registry and
cadastral information from INTI into RLC; and (vii) participate actively in the preparation
and the execution of (on-the-job)-training activities.
Prorde:
- Experience in project implementation (preferably international projects).
- Management skills.
- Degree in land-law (DDRR.) or related fields, or equal.
- Good knowledge of the countries rural area.
- Comprehensive professional experience and especially in: land-registration and
related fields.
- Familiarity with the existing national land related laws; the cadastral aspects of
land-registration; and institutional development.
- Willingness to travel extensively within the country.
- Basic knowledge of English and excellent communication skills.



- 103 -
ANNEX 12
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Documents on Project File
Working Papers
No. 1       Project Cost Tables
No. 2       Proyecto Nacional de Administraci6n de Tierras - Ley de Creaci6n del
INTl
No. 3       Proyecto de Ley de la Modificaci6n al Servicio Nacional de la Reforma
Agraria
No. 4       Proyecto Nacional de Administracion de Tierras - Componente de
Asentamientos Humanos
No. 5       Ley de Creaci6n del Registro Legal del Catastro
No. 6       Sistema Registra Integrado - Registro Legal Catastral
No. 7       Participatory Planning and Socio-Cultural Change
No. 8       Design and Development of an Integrated Cadastre and Land Registration
System in Bolivia






IBRD 26500
/0. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ y;                                                   62-                   BOUVIVA
B R A Z I L                                                                   NATIONAL LAND
67      77:2? lho                                             ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
_44^  .'  - ,/ ,r5|                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS:
Toulooroncof                             - REI.u-oa                                                                    Secondary
\    gw7; H~~Santeoser f           g hUIODi                                                              Tracks
._  tr -   7a 9-   Ferry Lines
--" Rivers
o    Towns
  Notional Capitol
Department Boundaries       12
z                                                                     l.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Iternational Boandaries
Altiplno
Valleys
I206 | t _rs)tC HtLowlancds
*      0    00    15o  290   250
KiLMETE'Rs
L - ,A / "   Pll 9 U S .\                                                                                                 M ILESn o  l  X   \   , p o n L o r n z o s l F S V , t r 6 0 L >  e  p ^ Z  3 R AZM L
TO                                                                                                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6~
Matomnimi                                                      LuJ                             *      PA AG A
PACt?l CH I LE       P O TOSY                        S  -                  EntreRloss JTAl%z} (t
5     ~          ~~~~~  s3*  Pqtopu      Yaub   Polnior  /   !;t)u)  ~s 
(          *                ,9        1  V,~~~~~~ ~~ltcz 9    Pacilsosm  /           ormdn  nln'             jeiPARAGUAY4
s <~~~~~~~~~~~~r Bi__-oAnt  Ri osEmberrcocon                                         j. bcrrid,                                 >oEANIN









IMAGING
Report No:       13Z560 BO
Type: SAR



