Report No. PID541
Project Name                     Bolivia-National Land Administration Project...
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Public Sector Management; Natural Resource
Management; and Poverty Alleviation
Project                          BOPE6197
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL AGRARIAN REFORM INSTITUTE
Junin N. 745, Esq Indaburo
La Paz, Bolivia
Contact Person: Mr. Rene Salomon, Director
Tel: (591) 2 408757
Fax: (591) 811 7473
Email:   UCAP INRA <inraucap@caoba.entelnet.bo>
Environment Category             B
Date PID Revised                 July 27, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         August 7, 2001 (expected; for Supplemental
Credit)
Projected Board Date             September 20, 2001 (expected; for Supplemental
Credit)
1. Country and Sector Background
With 110 million ha and 6.6 million people, Bolivia is a large and
sparsely populated country. It is naturally divided into three major
agro-ecological zones: the Highland Plateau, the Andean Valleys, and the
flat tropical Lowlands. The former two correspond to the traditional
agricultural areas. They have a high population density relative to the
available arable land and contain mostly small farms using rudimentary
technology. Climatic conditions are generally harsh, especially on the
Highland Plateau. Production consists of subsistence crops with some
diversification in the better endowed Valleys. By contrast, the Lowlands,
regions of recent population settlements, harbor a modern, commercial
agriculture in large to very large farms (latifundios), next to a minority
of smaller, more traditional settlers. In this region, the potential for
expansion of agricultural land is large. The Lowlands also boast one of
the world's largest tropical forest areas.
The Agrarian Reform Law, formulated following the Revolution of
1952, has played an effective role in curtailing the feudal
latifundio system on the Highland Plateau and the Andean Valleys.
The original National Land Administration project was approved by
the Board in June 1995 to assist Bolivia to create a more efficient
and transparent land administration system. During the first years
of project implementation, institutional reforms in the sector were
consolidated with: (i) the approval of the INRA (Instituto
Nacional de Reforma Agraria) law in 1996; (ii) the issuance of
regulations for the law in 1997; and (iii) the appointment of a



five-year term Director of INRA by the President of Bolivia in
1998. With the creation of INRA, the Bolivian government
established a target of completing the titling and regularization
of rural land tenure throughout Bolivia in a period of 10 years, or
by the year 2006. The new law and regulation provided the legal
basis for moving ahead with comprehensive regularization and
titling efforts that would provide registered, geo-referenced
titles. At the same time, the new law provided the basis for the
establishment and titling of TCOs (Tierras Comunitarias de Origen
indigenous, communaly-managed territories).
During the past 5 years, with the assistance of project financing,
INRA has developed and tested a participatory methodology for land
regularization and titling, and used this approach to regularize
and title 1.9 million hectares, including 12,151 smallholders and
800 medium/largeholders and one (1) Territorio Comunitario de
Origen (TCO) in the Bolivian, eastern lowlands. Additional areas
have been regularized and titled in areas of medium and
largeholders, with government and private funds. During this same
period INRA has received requests for titling from 101 indigenous
communities seeking to become titled as TCOs. Work has progressed
in most of these, with financing from IDA, DANIDA, IFAD, private,
and government sources. Full titling is complete in 14 of the
proposed TCOs, including 2,600,000 has., all located in the eastern
lowlands.
The modernization of the systems of the office of Derechos Reales
(Land Registry; DDRR), including the design and installation of a
computerized registy (TEMIS) in the departmental offices of DDRR
has increased the efficiency of the registry, improving service to
the public and reducing possibilities for corruption. Property
information from the field, gathered during the regularization and
titling process have been transferred directly to DDRR for massive
registration in the legal registry. The second phase of systems
development, the integration of the TEMIS system with geographical,
catastral information is to be completed this year, so that the
catastral information, once collected, would be permanently linked
to the legal record, and consequently, properly maintained and
updated. Through the project extension this new system would be
field tested and installed in the 9 departmental offices and 12
regional offices of DDRR, providing effective access to rural
areas.
The original IDA-financed project and the sister project for
titling TCOs in eastern Bolivia (Programa de Apoyo Sectorial a los
Puebles Indigenas, with financing from DANIDA) were designed in the
mid-1990's to respond to the demands of campesino and indigenous
movements. With the relative success of INRA's efforts to title
smallholders and TCOs in eastern Bolivia, further demands by
campesino and indigenous groups, articulated during the social
upheavals of last year (2000), have centered on the expansion of
INRA efforts to the Andean region. The Andean region has a history
of multiple titling efforts leading to a patchwork of tenure
situations, with often overlapping claims, and with very few titles
actually registererd in the national land registry. The need to
-2 -



complete titling in the Andean region has been raised by indigenous
community leaders, anxious to formalize the authority of their
communities over traditionally occupied territories and by
smallholders anxious to have their rights secured as a basis for
the development or sale of their properties. In addition to these
newer demands in the Andean region, pressure continues for the work
to be completed in the fertile areas of eastern Bolivia as a way of
promoting economic growth and resolution of tenure conflicts.
2. Objectives
The original project objectives were to achieve a more efficient
and transparent land administration system, clarify the land tenure
situation, identify public land suitable for small farmer
settlements and promote a more sustainable use of the country's
land resources. To achieve these objectives the project would help
the Government to formulate land administration and policy reforms,
obtain accurate land ownership information, carry out land studies
and improve land transaction registration. The objective of the
Supplemental Credit is to build on the results achieved by the
original project financing, to strengthen further the efficiency
and transparency of the Borrower's land administration system,
especially with regard to its functioning in the Andean region; to
complete land titling in over 3 million total hectares; and to
implement a sustainable national legal cadastral registry.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project is fully consistent with the broad objectives of the
Bank's strategy, in particular with the focus on rural development,
institutional reform and poverty alleviation. Since 1992, the Bank
has maintained an intense policy dialogue on land tenure and
administration with the Government. The project would improve the
current land administration system thereby facilitating its
transition to a permanent integrated geographical and legal land
administration system as envisaged by the Government. The project
would also support the land institutions' implementation of the
legal reforms. The Bank has also gained substantial experience in
land matters, both at the research and operational level, and is,
therefore, uniquely placed to assist Bolivia with the complex set
of reforms and investments which the proposed project entails.
4. Description
The project contains five main components: (i) technical
assistance and training in support of the preparation and
consolidation of the land administration legal and institutional
framework; (ii) strengthening of INRA; (iii) title regularization
in over 3 million hectares, focusing on smallholders in the
lowlands of eastern Bolivia and indigenous and communal lands in
both the eastern lowlands and Andean region; (iv) support for new
land settlements (as part of the original financing); and (v)
strengthening of the National Land Registry, including creation of
a legal cadastral registry.
-3-



Financing would be provided to conduct land regularization and
titling efforts of smallholders in the Departments of La Paz and
Santa Cruz, and the titling of Tierras Comunitarias de Origen
(TCOs) in La Paz and Potosi Departments. One objective of the
titling activity would be to develop, test and validate
methodologies for land titling that would address the range of land
tenure arrangements in both the eastern lowlands and the Andean
region.
With regard to the National Land Registry, the supplemental
financing would allow for the completion of efforts intiated under
the project to develop a reliable and accessible national land
registry including geographical (i.e. cadastral) information.     The
full establishment of an effective and sustainable land registry
system depends on finalizing the technical development and
installation of a computerized, integrated registry containing geo-
references for all registered titles, and increasing access to the
registry to both rural and urban areas through the linking of all 9
departments offices and 12 rural, regional offices into the
automated registry system.
5. Financing
Total Project Cost: US$27.2 million (of which US$20.3 million from
original IDA credit and US$6.9 million counterpart funding) financing plus
US$7.5 million supplemental financing (of which US$6.0 million from
proposed IDA Supplemental Credit and US$1.5 million counterpart funding)
6. Implementation
The original project was designed to be carried out over a five-year
period (1996-2001). With the proposed Supplemental Credit, project
implementation would be extended to June 30, 2004. Overall responsibility
for project planning and implementation would be vested primarily in the
National Agrarian Reform Institute, within the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning, with the participation of the National Land
Registry (Derechos Reales) and the National Agrarian Tribunal, and
consultation with indigenous groups and local governments.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the country's land institutions and policy has been
enhanced by the project's support for a broad consultation process leading
to legal reform, and will be further strengthened through the continued
development of implementation approaches and necessary regulations. The
sustainability of the land regularization and titling effort will be
supported by the strengthening of a national legal, catastral land
registry.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A review of Bank experience with land administration projects
indicates that in largely agrarian economies
such as Bolivia, land rights are an immensely political matter.
When a program involves some redistribution of land rights,
-4 -



political opposition is likely to be intense. Second, the
complexity of the land titling process has often been
underestimated. Land titling efforts have to commit considerable
resources to institutional development so there are sufficient
technical and human capacities available for efficient reform
implementation. Third, even with adequate capacity, there is no
quick-fix to land tenure problems. Improvements in this field can
only be achieved on a long-term basis. These lessons have been
incorporated into the project design through initial support to
this first-phase project, aimed at obtaining broad political
approval for the reforms, strengthening institutional capabilities,
and addressing the pressing needs of the highest conflict areas.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The environmental impact of this project would be strongly positive
for the following reasons. First, early land tenure conflict
resolution would reduce incentives of title owners to deforest land
to prove occupancy. Second, private land under more secure
individual property rights would be managed in a more sustainable
manner. Thus far, under the original project financing and due to
the INRA law of 1996 and its regulations, INRA now provides
incentives for conservation by: (i) allowing for increased size of
landholdings due to the defining of private reserves; and (ii) does
not require land categorized as forested to show "improvements"
(i.e. deforestation) in order for an individual to claim legitimate
use. In addition, the titling of TCOs in eastern Bolivia is
putting limits on the expansion of un-managed, illegal extraction
of forest resouces. Under the supplemental credit clarification
and improved treatment is being given in two areas: (i) protection
of cultural property; and (ii) demarcation of protected areas
adjacent to or within an area of titling.
Participation is built into the project in several ways. First,
during the preparation of the land legislation, the Credit financed
intensive consensus building workshops with stakeholders. Second,
the design of regularization and titling program for the Andean
region was done based on consultation with a range of stakeholders,
including representatives of NGOs and indigenous organizations. At
the final stage of design, technical aspects of the work were
discussed in detail and approaches piloted by NGOs were combined
with INRA's own experience to finalize the project implementation
plan. Consultation with these same individuals will continue
during implementation, by convening them as members of an advisory
group to assist INRA specifically with the effort in the Andean
region. Third, participation of indigenous groups during
implementation will occur in two ways: (i) regular meetings of the
Comite de Saneamiento to address implementation and methodology
issues related to the titling of Andean TCOs financed by IDA and
DANIDA; and (ii) a community consultation phase built into titling
efforts which will help define land boundaries as well as assure
that the titling procedures to be undertaken are well understood
- 5 -



and agreed by the broader community.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andrea Silverman
Mailing Address:
Field Office La Paz, The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 591-2-356844
Fax: 591-2- 391038
email <asilverman@worldbank.org>
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 3, 2001.
- 6 -



