Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2742-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(National Land Administration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 26, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2742-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Agrarian Court" means the court or courts and/or such other body of the 
Borrower's government which shall be created or assigned to administer justice on 
Page  2
agrarian matters;
(b)
"Agrarian Reform Law" means Decree Law No. 3464 of August 2, 1953;
 
(c)
"Cattle Landholding" means a landholding for cattle production of an area 
not exceeding the parcel sizes referred to in Article 21 of the Agrarian Reform Law;
(d)
"Corporate Landholding" means a landholding of an agricultural enterprise 
of an area not exceeding the parcel sizes referred to in Article 17 of the Agrarian 
Reform Law;
(e)
"CI" means "Comision Interventora", the Borrower's commission established 
to formulate and implement land administration reforms pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 
23331 of November 24, 1992, as amended by Supreme Decree No. 23418 of March 10, 1993 
and by the Law of Ministries of the Executive Power of September 11, 1993;
(f)
"Conflict Resolution Rules" means the rules to be adopted by INTI and/or 
the Agrarian Court for the implementation of Part E.1 of the Project pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Congress" means the Borrower's legislative branch;
 
(h)
"INTI" means the land institute to be established by the Borrower as the 
agency responsible for land and land tenure matters;
(i)
"INTI Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower for the 
establishment of INTI;
(j)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual to be prepared and adopted by CI 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Judiciary" means the Borrower's judicial branch;
 
(l)
"Judiciary Organization Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1455 published 
in the Official Gazette on February 18, 1993;
(m)
"Land Settlement Manual" means the manual to be adopted by CI providing 
in respect of land settlements, inter alia, the environmental screening procedures 
applicable thereto, and the equal treatment of both genders in the allocation thereof 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(n)
"Legal Cadastre Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower for the 
establishment of a legal cadastre;
(o)
"Letter of Land Policy" means the letter to be furnished by the Borrower 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement 
following substantially the draft furnished by the Borrower to the Association on 
March 16, 1995;
(p)
"MDSMA" means the Borrower's ministry of sustainable development and 
environment;
(q)
"Medium Landholding" means a landholding of an area not exceeding the 
parcel sizes referred to in Article 16 of the Agrarian Reform Law;
(r)
"Property Registry" means the Registro de Derechos Reales referred to in 
Articles 267 to 276 of the Judicial Organization Law and created by the Real Estate 
Registry Law of November 15, 1887;
(s)
"Property Registry Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between MDSMA and the Supreme Court (as defined below) pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Property Registry Implementation Agreement;
(t)
"RLC" means the legal cadastral registry to be established by the 
Borrower as the registry responsible for maintaining the legal cadastre;
(u)
"RLC Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between MDSMA and the Supreme Court (as defined below) pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the RLC  Implementation Agreement;
Page  3
(v)
"RLC Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower for the 
establishment of RLC;
(w)
"Small Landholding" means a landholding of an area not exceeding the 
parcel sizes referred to in Article 15 of the Agrarian Reform Law;
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(y)
"Supreme Court" means the highest appellate court in the Judiciary 
referred to in Article 47 of the Judicial Organization Law.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2005 and ending April 1, 2035.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out:
(i)
Parts A.1, A.2, B and C of the Project through CI;
 
(ii)
Parts A.3, A.4 and A.5 of the Project through MDSMA;
 
(iii)
Part D of the Project through the Property Registry;
 
(iv)
Parts E and F of the Project through INTI; and
 
(v)
Part G of the Project through RLC;
 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
financial, administrative, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Association hereby agree that upon the establishment, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association: (i) of INTI, all the rights and obligations 
of CI contemplated in this Agreement will thereinafter be assumed by INTI; and (ii) of 
RLC, all the rights and obligations of the Property Registry contemplated in this 
Agreement will thereinafter be assumed by RLC.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation plan set forth in 
the Annex to a supplemental letter of even date herewith.
(d)
The Borrower shall, through MDSMA, enter into an implementation agreement 
with the Supreme Court, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association which 
shall include, inter alia, their respective obligations in the implementation of Part 
D of the Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall, through MDSMA and upon the establishment of RLC, 
enter into an agreement with the Supreme Court under terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association which shall include, inter alia, their respective obligations in 
the implementation of Part G of the Project.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Property Registry 
Implementation Agreement and the RLC Implementation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  5
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Property Registry 
Implementation Agreement or the RLC Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, land settlements under Part E.2 of the Project shall be authorized in 
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Land Settlement Manual.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) not later than March 31 and September 30 each 
year, a report containing, inter alia: (A) the Project activities carried out during 
the preceding six months; and (B) the expenditures made in respect of such activities; 
and (ii) not later than September 30 each year, any modifications proposed for the 
following year in respect of the implementation plan referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
not later than November 30 each year, review with the Association its 
progress in the implementation of the Project and in meeting the requirements of the 
implementation plan referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
not later than thirty calendar months after the Effective Date, review 
with the Association, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (b) hereof: 
(i) the progress made in the enactment and implementation, as the case may be, of the 
INTI Law, the RLC Law, the Legal Cadastre Law, and the Land Law to be enacted by the 
Borrower; (ii) the progress made in, and the cost efficiency and impact of, the 
clarification and systematization of the land tenure situation in the Borrower's 
territory; (iii) the implementation by INTI of its land regularization program and the 
application of the cost recovery mechanisms thereof; (iv) the progress made in the 
strengthening of CI and INTI, and the Property Registry and RLC, as the case may be; 
(v) the cost efficiency and field impact of the land settlement program included in 
Part E.2 of the Project; and (vi) the effectiveness of the environmental safeguards 
included in the Land Settlement Manual; and
(d)
if after any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (b) or (c) hereof 
the Association is not satisfied with the progress made in the carrying out of the 
Project: (i) not later than sixty days after the respective review, prepare a plan of 
action satisfactory to the Association aimed at achieving adequate progress in the 
carrying out of the Project and the meeting of its objectives; and (ii) take promptly 
all actions included in such action plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall through CI: (a) not later than July 31, 1995 
furnish to the Association for its comments the Project implementation manual to be 
applied by CI and INTI, as the case may be, in the implementation and/or coordination 
of the Project; and (b) promptly, thereafter, adopt such manual, modified as needed to 
take into account the comments, if any, made by the Association.
Section 3.06.  Once the moratorium on the distribution of public lands 
contemplated in Supreme Decree Number 23331 of November 24, 1992 is lifted and if the 
Borrower decides to distribute public lands other than for Small Landholdings and the 
Cattle Landholdings referred to in Article 21, paragraph (a) of the Agrarian Reform 
Law, the Borrower shall distribute such lands through sales in public auction.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall, in the implementation of its land title 
regularization process:
(a)
revert to the public domain, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Agrarian Reform Law, unproductive lands; and
(b)
charge fees for surveys and titling services performed in respect of 
Medium Landholdings, Corporate Landholdings and Cattle Landholdings other than those 
referred to in Article 21, paragraph (a) of the Agrarian Reform Law, from the 
beneficiaries of such services and the municipalities where the services are performed 
and at a level sufficient to cover the unitary direct costs to CI and INTI, as the 
case may be, of providing such services.
Page  6
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  7
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the INTI Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely in the opinion of the Association the 
carrying out of Parts E and F of the Project; and
(b)
the RLC Law or the Legal Cadastre Law shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely in the opinion 
of the Association the carrying out of Part G of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely any event specified in paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall have adopted the Land Settlement Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Property Registry Implementation Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of MDSMA and the Supreme Court; and
(c)
the Borrower shall have signed, and furnished to the Association, the 
Letter of Land Policy.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Property Registry 
Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by MDSMA and the Supreme 
Court and is legally binding upon MDSMA and the Supreme Court in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 25, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 and 3.07 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and the Secretary of Finance of the 
Borrower are severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
   and/or Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
   Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA 
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
Page  8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Andres Petricevic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Goods                        740,000           87%
(2) Consultants                        )           84% for payments
    Services:                          )           made before
                                       )           December 31, 1997
                                       )           and 75% thereafter
                                       )
    (a)  for all Parts        1,000,000)
         of the Project                )
         (other than                   )
         Parts E and F                 )
         thereof)                      )
                                       )
    (b)  for Parts E            670,000)
         and F of the                  )
         Project                       )
(3) Training                           )           100% of foreign
                                       )           expenditures and
    (a) for all Parts           500,000)           84% of local
        of the Project                 )           expenditures
        (other than Part               )
Page  9
        A.5 thereof)                   )
                                       )
    (b) for Part A.5             40,000)
        of the Project                 )
(4) Works:                                          84%
    (a) for Parts C             200,000)
        and D of the                   )
        Project                        )
                                       )
    (b) for Part G of           200,000)
        the Project                    )
(5) Incremental Operating              )            87% for payments
    Costs:                             )            made before
                                       )            December 31, 1997
                                       )            and 75% thereafter
                                       )
    (a) for Parts A           1,340,000)
        through D of                   )
        the Project                    )
                                       )
    (b) for Parts E           1,000,000)
        and F of the                   )
        Project                        )
                                       )
    (c) for Part G of           600,000)
        the Project                    )
(6) Service Contracts         6,030,000             84%
(7) Unallocated               1,380,000
                               ________
        TOTAL                13,700,000
                             ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the salaries of incremental 
staff and the incremental cost of transport, office rental and supplies, contract 
labor, utilities, maintenance of buildings and equipment, field materials, travel 
expenses and field allowances;
(d)
the term "Service Contracts" means the cost of services for aerial 
photography, land surveys, mapping, land demarcation, publicity campaign, and other 
related services; and
(e)
the term "Training" means the cost of trainers' and trainees' fees, 
rental of conference rooms, per diem and transport of trainees and materials required 
for the training activities to be carried out under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,340,000, may be  
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 
1, 1995;
(b)
payments for expenditures under Categories 2 (b) and 5 (b) for Parts E 
and F of the Project, unless: (i) INTI has been established in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) INTI has adopted the Land Settlement Manual, 
the Conflict Resolution Rules and cost recovery mechanisms for its land regularization 
Page  10
and cadastre activities, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
payments for expenditures under Categories 4 (b) and 5 (c) for Part G of 
the Project, unless: (i) RLC has been established in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association; and (ii) the RLC Implementation Agreement has been executed by 
MDSMA and the Supreme Court; and
(d)
payments for expenditures under Category 3 (b) for Part A.5 of the 
Project, unless the Agrarian Court has been established in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association and institutional arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Association, have been made between MDSMA and the Agrarian Court.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:
(a)
contracts for goods, works and cadastral services in respect of which the 
procedures for prior review set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement will not be required pursuant 
to the provisions of Section I, Part D, paragraph 1 (b) of such Schedule;
(b)
contracts for consultants services in respect of which prior review will 
not be required pursuant to the provisions of Section II, paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
Category (3) and Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule other than for salaries estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500 per person 
and per month or more, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency and 
transparency of the Borrower's land administration system; (b) to clarify the land 
tenure situation in the Borrower's territory; (c) to identify land suitable for small- 
farmers settlements; and (d) to promote a more sustainable use of the Borrower's land 
resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Policy Formulation
 
Provision of technical assistance for:
1.
The preparation of draft laws and regulations on land tenure policy and 
administration including a decentralized out-of-court land dispute resolution system.
2.
The carrying out of seminars, workshops and conferences, and a campaign to 
disseminate information to the public at large, on the content of the draft laws 
referred to in Part A.1 above.
3.
The carrying out of studies on, inter alia, land tenure, land use, territorial 
planning and natural resource management, and for the formulation of selected land 
tenure policy proposals.
4.
The carrying out of seminars and workshops aimed at disseminating the results of 
the studies referred to in A.3 above among concerned institutions and interest groups 
in the Borrower's territory.
5.
Training of judges and other staff of the Agrarian Court on substantive and 
procedural aspects related to the resolution of land disputes brought before such 
court.
Part B:
Clarification and Systematization of Land Tenure
 
1.
Identification and assessment of about 500,000 hectares of public lands suitable 
for distribution to small-holders, including, inter alia, land identification studies, 
topographical and socioeconomic surveys, and environmental analysis, and design of the 
land settlement program to be carried out under Part E.2 of the Project.
Page  11
2.
Clarification of the land tenure situation in selected areas of the Borrower's 
territory covering about three million hectares including, inter alia, aerial 
photography and satellite imagery on about 1.5 million hectares, topographical surveys 
and land mapping to identify, demarcate and document property boundaries, and the 
review of land property titles. 
Part C:
Strengthening of CI
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to CI in administration, finance, land tenure 
and such other fields as the Association may agree.
2.
Rehabilitation of CI's offices.
 
3.
Training of CI staff in land mapping, office management, and land tenure 
regulations and other subjects as the Association may agree.
Part D:
Property Registry
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to improve the organization and management of 
the Property Registries in Santa Cruz, La Paz, Chuquisaca and Cochabamba, and in such 
other Property Registry as the Association may agree.
2.
Rehabilitation and equipping of the Property Registries' offices in La Paz and 
Santa Cruz.
3.
Training and study tours of selected staff of the Property Registries referred 
to in Part D.1 above in land registration, mapping, and the organization of the legal 
cadastre.
Part E:
Title Regularization and Land Settlements
 
1.
Regularization of titles to land in rural areas covering about three million 
hectares including, inter alia, the resolution of conflicts between landholders, 
topographical surveys for the demarcation of the individual land parcels, titling and 
registration.
2.
Carrying out of a land settlement program to benefit about 10,000 migrant 
farmers, including, inter alia, the provision of land titles, and the orientation and 
training of future colonists in basic agriculture and health in the tropical lowlands.
Part F:
Strengthening of INTI
 
Provision of technical assistance to INTI in management, accounting, land 
reform, and such other fields as the Association may agree.
Part G:
Legal Cadastral Registry
 
Construction of a central office for RLC and rehabilitation of RLC's offices in 
Chuquisaca and Cochabamba.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and cadastral services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance 
with the following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
Page  12
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid 
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any 
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and cadastral services in accordance with 
this Part A.1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued 
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to 
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based 
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent possible, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
(a)
Works (other than cadastral services) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, 
cadastral services estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000 and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with this Part C.1, 
the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents agreed with the Association.
2.
(a)
Works (other than cadastral services) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, 
cadastral services estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,900,000 and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(b)
In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with this Part C.2, 
the Borrower shall use standard form of contracts issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts for goods, works (cadastral surveys) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for 
goods, works and cadastral services estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$150,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
Page  13
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association. For 
simple assignments the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using 
standard forms of contract agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$15,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$15,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  15
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
