Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2742-1-BO
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(National Land Administration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 17, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2742-1-BO
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AMENDING AGREEMENT, dated October 17, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (National Land Administration Project) dated June 26, 1995 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to four millon eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,800,000); 
(C)
the Development Credit Agreement has been amended by means of letters 
from the Association to the Borrower dated March 24, 1997, November 18, 1999 and 
January 11, 2000, countersigned by the Borrower on April 23, 1997, on December 8, 1999 
and on January 31, 2000, respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means with respect to the Second Tranche (as 
such term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement) any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of 
Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such 
countries.".
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made either in respect of the First Tranche or of the 
Second Tranche (as both terms are defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement): (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank (for the purposes of the First Tranche) or 
is not a Participating Country (for the purposes of the Second Tranche), as 
the case may be, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
Section 1.02. New Paragraphs (z) through (mm) are added to Section 1.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"(z)
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending Development 
Credit Agreement (National Land Administration Project) between the Borrower 
and the Association dated October 17, 2001;
(aa)
‘Andean CITCO’ means Comité Interinstitucional de Tierras 
Comunitarias de Origen para las Tierras Altas, the Inter-institutional 
Committee for Original Community Landholdings in the Borrower’s Andean region 
established pursuant to MDSP (as hereinafter defined) Ministerial Resolution 
No. 281\2000 of September 26, 2000, as the forum for consultation between the 
Borrower’s agencies responsible for Original Community Landholdings (including 
INRA 
and MACPIO) and indigenous peoples;
(bb)
‘First Tranche’ means an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to thirteen million seven-hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,700,000) for the original financing of the Project; 
(cc)
‘MACPIO’ means Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos, Pueblos Indígenas 
y Originarios, the Borrower’s Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and 
Originary Peoples; 
(dd)
‘MACPIO Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 3.10 
of this Agreement;
(ee)
‘MDSP’ means Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Planificación, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning;
(ff)
‘Project Implementation Plan’ means the Borrower’s plan for the 
implementation of the Project dated August 13, 2001;
(gg)
‘Population Issues Framework’ means the Borrower’s population 
issues framework for the Sustainability of the National System of Protected 
Areas Project referred to in the letter from Bolivia to the Bank dated 
December 15, 2000, that contains the principles and guidelines for eventual 
resettlement of the population living in the Borrower’s protected areas or 
Page  3
limitations in the use of, or access to, natural resources in such areas;
(hh)
‘Second Tranche’ means an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to four million eight-hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR4,800,000) 
for  supplementing the original financing of the Project;
(ii)
‘SERNAP’ means Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas, the 
Borrower's National Protected Areas Agency;
(jj)
‘SERNAP Agreement’ means the agreement entered into between INRA 
and SERNAP on July 13, 2001 that sets forth the rules and procedures for the 
demarcation of protected areas in the context of INRA’s operations (including 
the implementation of the Project);
(kk)
‘VMC’ means Viceministerio de Cultura, the Borrower’s Vice 
Ministry of Culture, within the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports; and
(ll)
‘VMC Agreement’ means the agreement entered into between INRA and 
VMC on June 25, 2001 that sets forth the rules and procedures for the 
protection of cultural property in the context of INRA’s operations (including 
the 
implementation of the Project).".
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million 
five-hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR18,500,000). The Credit 
consists of the sum of the First Tranche and the Second Tranche."
Section 1.04. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
"Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all amounts 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be charged 
against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, and shall 
thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche.". 
Section 1.05. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall notify the 
Borrower of such later date.".
Section 1.06. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 
(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement, to read as follows:
", except that any commitment charge on the Second Tranche shall accrue from a 
date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement;".
Section 1.07. Section 2.06 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges for the First 
Tranche shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Commitment charges and service charges for the Second Tranche shall be payable 
semiannually on December 15 and June 15 in each year.".
Section 1.08. Section 2.07 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Page  4
Borrower shall: (i) repay the principal amount of the First Tranche in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing on 
October 1, 2005 and ending on April 1, 2035. Each First Tranche installment to 
and including the installment payable on October 1, 2015 shall be one percent 
(1%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount; and (ii) repay the principal amount of 
the 
Second Tranche in semiannual installments payable on each December 15 and 
June 
15 commencing on December 15, 2011 and ending on June 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2021 shall be 
one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such 
principal amount.".
Section 1.09. New Sections 3.09 through 3.13 are added to Article III of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"Section 3.09. With regard to Part C of the Project, not later than 
September 30, 2001, INRA shall enter into an agreement with MACPIO, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of:
(a)
ensuring the effective cooperation of MACPIO in the implementation 
of such Part of the Project; and 
(b)
not later than January 31, May 31 and September 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, starting not later than September 30, 
2001, convening: 
(i)
the Andean CITCO; or 
(ii)
in case the convening of the Andean CITCO is not feasible, 
regularization committees that bring together 
representatives of organizations that will participate in 
the implementation of such Part of the Project in the Andean 
region in the territory of the Borrower, so as to: (A) 
address titling issues of Original Community Landholdings; 
and (B) identify and resolve issues that prevent the 
convening of the Andean CITCO.
Section 3.10. INRA shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the MACPIO Agreement, the SERNAP Agreement and the VMC 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the MACPIO Agreement or the SERNAP 
Agreement or the VMC Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.11. With regard to Part C.5 of the Project, INRA shall:
(a)
before demarcating the Flavio Machicado Vizcarra Sanctuary and the 
southern boundary of the El Chore Production Forest:
(i)
in coordination with the Borrower’s prefectural and 
municipal authorities, review the legal status and any land 
claims of affected communities and individuals, and 
determine any measures necessary or advisable to regularize 
their legal status and/or to finalize the land titling 
process;
(ii)
in coordination with the Borrower’s prefectural and 
municipal authorities, take the measures determined under 
subparagraph (i) above to regularize the legal status of 
such communities and individuals, and to finalize the land 
titling process; and
(iii)
in coordination with SERNAP (pursuant to the provisions of 
the SERNAP Agreement) and MDSP, enter into agreements with 
the affected communities and individuals, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association: (A) in the case 
of the Flavio Machicado Vizcarra Sanctuary, to determine 
land use within the area to be demarcated for such 
Page  5
Sanctuary; and (b) in the case of the southern boundary of 
El Chore Production Forest, to provide adequate compensation 
or other livelihood-related assistance, as needed, to such 
affected communities and individuals in case any new 
restriction on the use of land, or access to natural 
resources, occurs as a result of such demarcation, all in 
accordance with the Population Issues Framework;
(b)
prior to carrying out any of the activities referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, furnish to the Association an action plan for its review 
and approval; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out the action plan referred to in paragraph (b) 
above as approved by the Association.
Section 3.12. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of 
Section 3.11 of this Agreement, with regard to Part C.5 of the Project, INRA 
shall, not later than December 31, 2003, complete the demarcation of the 
Flavio Machicado Vizcarra Sanctuary, and the demarcation of the southern 
boundary of El Chore Production Forest, all in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and the Population Issues Framework, and with the 
assistance of economic, social and environmental experts of experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association, operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association.".
Section 1.10. Section 7.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)".
Section 1.11. Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
(including the table in such paragraph) is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 
I to this Agreement
Section 1.12. A new paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is added to read as follows:
"3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made:
(e)
with regard to the Second Tranche, for expenditures prior to the 
date of the Amending Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR480,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) through (6) of the table in paragraph 1 above on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred before the date of the Amending 
Page  6
Agreement but after August 1, 2001.".
Section 1.13. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: 
(a)
works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent;
(b)
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
(c)
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent;
(d)
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $35,000 
equivalent; and
(e)
training and incremental operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.".
Section 1.14. Part A.3 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"3.
Carrying out of studies to: 
(a)
support the development of the Borrower’s land administration 
policy in the areas of: (i) land tenure, use and prices; (ii) territorial 
planning; and (iii) natural resources management; and 
(b)
evaluate the impact of Part C of the Project.".
Section 1.15. Part A.4 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"4.
Carrying out of seminars and workshops aimed at improving implementation 
of land administration policies and disseminating the findings and 
recommendations of the studies carried out under Part A.3 of the Project.".
Section 1.16. Part C.4 of the Project is deleted.
Section 1.17. Part C.5 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"5.
Provision of technical assistance to INRA for the development, testing 
and validation of land titling methodologies that address land tenure 
arrangements found in the territory of the Borrower, including:
(a)
identification, regularization and titling of Original Community 
Landholdings and Community Landholdings; and
(b)
tailoring and testing of land titling strategies originally 
developed and utilized in the Eastern region of the territory of the Borrower 
for the Andean Region in the territory of the Borrower, through: (i) 
assessment of demand for titling options and nature of tenure conflicts; and 
(ii) titling activities designed to meet the needs of participating 
communities and other landholders.".
Section 1.18. Part E.2 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"2.
Establishment of a reliable and accessible national legal cadaster 
registry, through: 
(a)
development and installation of a computerized integrated system 
containing geo-references for registered titles; and 
(b)
increased access to such legal cadaster registry in rural and 
urban areas by linking of the nine (9) departmental offices and thirteen (13) 
Page  7
regional offices of the Property Registry into an automated system".
Section 1.19. The date "June 30, 2001" specified in the last line of Schedule 2 
to the Development Credit Agreement is replaced with the date "December 31, 2003".
Section 1.20. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as set forth in Attachment II to this Agreement.
Section 1.21. Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
modified to read as follows:
"1. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect upon 
dispatch of a notice by the Association to the Borrower indicating acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending 
Agreement shall have not been furnished to the Association by January 15, 2002, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of furnishing said 
evidence. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as 
if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jacques Trigo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ John L. Newman
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Attachment I
"1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the First and the Second 
Tranches of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
   Amount of the
First Tranche of the
Second Tranche of the
 Credit Allocated
  Credit Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in 
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
 SDR Equivalent)
  SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Goods
(a) for Parts A 
through D
of the Project
1,330,000
270,000
87%
(b) for Part E 
of the Project
  220,000
480,000
87%
(2) Consultant Services:
(a) for Parts A, C, 
and D of the 
Project
1,830,000
170,000
100% of 
payments
made on or 
before
December 31, 
1999;
and 80% 
thereafter
(b) for Part B of 
the Project
  710,000
160,000
100% of 
payments
made on or 
before
December 31, 
1998; and 
80% 
thereafter
(c) for Part E 
of the Project
  240,000
   0
100% of 
payments 
made on or 
before 
December 31, 
1998; and 
80% 
thereafter
(3) Training 
  290,000
 80,000
100% of foreign
expenditures 
and 87% 
of 
local 
expenditures
(4) Works
(a) for Part B 
of the Project
   20,000
   0
87%
Page  9
(b) for Part E 
of the Project
0
   0
87%
(5) Incremental Operating Costs
(a) for Parts A, 
C, D and E
2,390,000
900,000
87% of 
payments
of the Project
made on or 
before
December 31, 
1999;
75% of 
payments 
made after 
December 31, 
1999
but on or 
before 
July 31, 
2001;
and 60% 
thereafter
(b) for Part B 
of the Project
  270,000
 60,000
87% of 
payments
made on or 
before 
December 31, 
1998;
75% of 
payments 
made after 
December 31, 
1998
but on or 
before 
July 31, 
2001;
and 60% 
thereafter
(6) Service Contracts
6,400,000
    2,350,000
87%
(7) Unallocated
   0
330,000
TOTAL
     13,700,000
    4,800,000
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Guidelines
(a)
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), as such Guidelines may be revised by 
the Bank from time to time; and (ii) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
With respect to the Second Tranche, in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the 
Guidelines, the references to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
2.
Grouping of Contracts
Page  10
(a)
Contracts for goods and works shall be packaged in sizes adequate to 
attract maximum competition and to ensure economy and efficiency in the procurement 
process. Contracts shall not be divided into smaller units in order to make them less 
appropriate for competitive procedures. Any proposal to divide a contract into smaller 
packages shall require the prior approval of the Association.
(b)
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) contracts 
for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or 
more each.
3.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Standard documents
In the procurement of goods or works under NCB, S(I/N) and PSW (as hereinafter 
defined) the Borrower shall use standard documents acceptable to the Association.
Section II: 
Employment of Consultants
Consultant Guidelines
(a)
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), as 
such Consultant Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time to time; and (ii) the 
applicable provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
With respect to the Second Tranche, in paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the references to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Section III. Records and audits
1.
Records
(a)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained Procurement Records (as 
hereinafter defined) adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
procurement practices (including related supervision, review and 
auditing) the procurement activities of INRA; and
(ii)
ensure that all such Procurement Records evidencing such 
procurement activities are retained until at least two (2) years 
after the Closing Date.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, the term "Procurement Records" means:
(i)
with respect to procurement of goods and works: public notices of 
bidding opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; bid opening 
information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by bidders and 
outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; records on 
claims and dispute resolution; and records of time taken to 
complete key steps in the process; and
(ii)
with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for 
expressions of interest; requests for proposals and addenda; 
technical and final evaluation reports; formal appeals by firms 
and related outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; 
records on claims and dispute resolution; and records of time 
taken to complete key steps in the process.
2.
Audits: 
The Borrower shall:
Page  11
(a)
have the Procurement Records audited annually, in accordance with 
internationally accepted procurement standards consistently applied, by independent 
procurement experts acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no 
later than six (6) months after the end of each Project implementation calendar year, 
the report of said audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Association 
such other information concerning said audit, as the Association may reasonably 
request.
Section IV.
Review of Procurement Action
1.
Prior to the issuance of: (a) any invitations to bid for goods or works; or (b) 
any requests for proposals to consultants, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Association by INRA, for the Association review and 
approval in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 of Appendixes 1 to the 
Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works, and 
selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association (the Procurement 
Plan), and with the provisions of said paragraphs.
2.
Not later than June 1st and December 1st of each year of Project implementation, 
the Borrower (through INRA) shall furnish to the Association, for its review and 
approval, a detailed update of the Procurement Plan for the upcoming calendar 
semester, consistent with the applicable Annual Operating Plan.  Such update shall 
include: (a) a firm list of contracts to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester 
and a tentative list of contracts to be procured in the subsequent semester; (b) 
estimated contract costs; (c) schedule for bidding; and (d) particular methods of 
procurement of goods and works, and selection of consultants.
3.
The Borrower shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Procurement Plan 
and any update thereof in the UN Development Business Magazine** See footnote 19 to 
paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines..
4.
The Borrower and the Association shall meet from time to time to review progress 
in the implementation of the Procurement Plan.
5.
Any modification to the Procurement Plan shall require the Association’s prior 
review and approval.
Section V.  Specific Provisions for Procurement of Goods and Works, and Employment 
of Consultants
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, WRONG FORMAT
Definitions:
1.
"ICB" means the International Competitive Bidding procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto;
2.
"IC" means the Individual Consultants selection procedure set forth in 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines;
3.
"NCB" means the National Competitive Bidding procedure set forth in paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines;
4.
"Other Methods of Procurement" means the methods of procurement set forth in 
Section III of the Guidelines;
5.
"Other Methods of Selection" means the methods of selection set forth in Section 
III of the Consultant Guidelines;
6.
"Post Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association 
determines, at any time, that the proposed selection is inconsistent with the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines or this Schedule, it shall promptly inform the 
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination;
7.
"Post Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  12
Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association determines, at any time, that 
the proposed procurement is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines or this 
Schedule, it shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its 
determination;
8.
"Prior Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; 
9.
"Prior Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines;
10.
"PSW" means the Procurement of Small Works procedure for lump sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully;
11.
"QCBS" means the Quality and Cost-based selection procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the applicable provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof; 
12.
"RFP" means request for proposals;
13.
"S(I/N)" means the Shopping (International or National) procedure referred to in 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
14.
"TORs" means terms of reference.
Section VI. Special Provisions
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods 
and works under NCB:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids 
have been determined to be non-responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the Borrower’s standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with the Borrower’s authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
Page  13
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the bid with the 
second lowest evaluated price.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of INRA shall apply without the prior 
review and approval of the Association.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals, or any documentation related to 
such proposals, with Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
