OFFICIAL                   f f(§ 3 ~~V
The World Bank                                                     '         (202)473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
,2011
H.E.M. Louis-Paul MOTAZE
Minister of Economy, Planning and Regional Development
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Re: IDA No. 4593-CM (Community Development Program Support Project - Phase 2) Additional
Instructions: Disbursement -First Restatement - Corrigendum
Excellency:
I refer to the Financing Agreement between the International Development Association (the
"Association") and the Republic of Cameroon (the "Recipient") for the above-referenced project, dated
September 16'h 2009. The Agreement provices that the Association may issue additional instructions
regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Financing 4593-CM ("Financing"). This letter
("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the additional instructions.
'his Disbursement Letter is a First Restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated September
16th, 2009 for the above referenced project restating Section II (vi) to raise the ceiling of Designated
Account ("A") to CFAF 3.2 billion. The new ceiling will be effective from the date of this letter to
accommodate the Project's cash flow needs for that period. Section II(iv) is also restated to specify the
name of the commercial bank where the Designated Accounts are held. All other provisions of the
Disbursement Letter dated September 16th, 2009 except as amended, shall remain in force and effect.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The
manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is specified below.
Sections and subsections in parentheses belcw refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the
Disbursement Guidelines and, unless other ise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms used have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used under the
Financir g:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
*  Direct Payment - exclusively for category 1
*  Special Commitment - exclusively for category 1
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4 months after
the Closi ig Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date will be notified by the
Associalion.


﻿(iii) Dishursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Condition(s) in Section
IV.B of Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement.
II. Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). : Applications for this PPA will be signed by the official(s)
authorized to sign Applications as indicated in the letter from the Minister of Economy and Finance of
July 7, 2005. In accordance with the provisions of said letter, the officials authorized to sign withdrawal
applications for all World Bank financings are Mr. Evou Mekou Dieudonn6, CAA Director General, and
Mr, Gorila Julien, Deputy Director General.
The World Bank
1.792, No. 186
Yaounde, Camerou i
Attention: Mary Barton-Dock
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed applications for
withdrawal, together with supporting documents, to the address indicated below:
The World Bank
4 Fricker Road, IFC Building, Illovo 2196
Johannesburg, South Africa
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for direct
paymeni, special commitment, and reimbursement should be the equivalent of $100,000 of the advance
deposited in the Designated Account (refer to iv below).
(iv) Adv!nces (sections 5 and 6).
*   Type ofDesignatedAccount/s] (subsection 5.3): 2 Segregated Accounts
*  Currency ofDesignatedAccount/s] (subsection 5.4): FCFA (XAF)
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account/s] Will Be Opened (subsection 5.5):
United Bank for Africa Cameroon PLC
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1):
* DA-A FCFA 3.2 billion from the date of this Disbursement Letter for Category 2 and
Category 3
* DA-B FCFA 690 million for Category 1
III. Reporting on Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with each
application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement:
o Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices)
for payments against cont-acts valued at: US$200,000 equivalent or more for works,


﻿US$100,000 equivalent or more for goods, US$100,000 equivalent or more for services
of consulting firms, and US$50,000 equivalent or more for individual consultants.
o  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 3) for all other expenditures
/ contracts; and
"  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior review, in
the form attached (Attachment 4)
* For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
o  Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices)
for payments against contracts valued at: US$200,000 equivalent or more for works,
US$100,000 equivalent o more for goods, US$ 100,000 equivalent or more for
services of consulting firms, and US$50,000 equivalent or more for individual
consultants.
o  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 3) for all other expenditures
/ contracts; and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior review, in
the form attached (Attachment 4)
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of
receipts, supplier invoices
(ii) Freqaency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account (subsection 6.3):
monthly
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the Disbursement
Handbook available on the Association's public website at http://www.worldbank.org and its secure
website "Client Connection" at http://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon
request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to download Applications, monitor the near
real-time status of the Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Ms. Aissatou Diallo, Sr. Finance
Officer at loa-afr@worldbank.org using the above reference.
'Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Aissatou Diallo
Se,.iior Finance Officer
Loan Department
Attachments are with the original Disbursement Letter


