Report No. PID11064
Project Name             GUINEA-MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT(@)
(MAP)
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   HA - HIV/AIDS
Project ID               P073378
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA
Implementing Agency
National Committee for the Fight
against AIDS (CNLS)
Address:
Contact Person: Dr Hadja Mariama Dielo
Barry
Tel: 224-41-52-83/41-52-52
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        June 20, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      June 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date       August 7, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Past failures and challenges from an unsettled environment. Guinea is
recovering from the utter failure of a centrally planned economy, which
prevailed until the mid-1980s. The introduction of multi-party democracy
in 1994 improved political accountability, even if elections have been
plagued with widespread irregularities. For much of the past decade,
Guinea has been home to nearly half a million of refugees from its two
southern neighbors, Liberia and Sierra Leone. In September 2000, it
suffered from cross-border incursions, which have caused the displacement
of populations and damage to infrastructure. In 2001 the security
situation improved in Sierra Leone, but has remained fragile in Liberia.
Poor social indicators. In the 1990s, Guinea made significant strides in
human development, particularly in education, and managed to reduce the
gap relative to averages for sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). School enrollments
increased from under 30 percent in the 1980s to 56 percent by the end of
the 1990s. Girl enrollment rates doubled from 20 to 40 percent.
Important achievements were made in the health sector during the past
decade to develop a basic health care system. Vaccination rates for Polio3
increased from 15t in 1982, to 17t in 1990, and reached 54t in 1995.
However, Guinea continues to compare poorly with other SSA countries. In
1999, for instance, one child out of four suffers from chronic
malnutrition and one woman out of ten suffers from acute malnutrition.
Successes to build upon. Guinea was a pioneer in implementing a
decentralized cost-recovery system for primary health care. The success of
this system might be in great part responsible for the higher decrease in
infant mortality among the poor than among the non-poor in the 90's, a
result in equity that no other country of Africa has achieved. In the last
few years however, it seems that local health committees started
mismanaging the committee's funds due to lack of proper supervision. In
addition, the bankruptcy of the Bank where all the committees' revolving



funds were held also contributed to the problem. Another success in
Guinea is its tuberculosis control program which covers the whole country
with the DOTS system which was established in 1990. Since its inception,
the program has never experienced a drug stock-out. All donors, under the
leadership of the national TB program, plan drug supply needs, drug
procurement and distribution collaboratively. The program detected 66% of
the estimated new infectious TB cases in 2000, while the global target for
case detection is 70%. It is estimated that approximately 17% of new TB
patients are infected with HIV. Epidemiological Situation of HIV/AIDS.
The low official HIV prevalence rate reported in the past few years was
more attributable to poor reporting and monitoring than to reality. The
sentinel sites which had been established to monitor STIs and HIV/AIDS
prevalence haven't functioned since 1996. With no data, it was assumed
that Guinea's HIV prevalence rate mirrored that of Senegal, its neighbor,
it was said for example that the population of reproductive age had a rate
around 3 percent in 2000. However, the national prevalence survey which
was undertaken in July 2001, showed that the HIV prevalence rate is much
higher than anticipated. Pregnant women tested showed that HIV prevalence
has reached a critical point in the urban areas throughout the country, at
4.4%, with particularly alarming rates in Conakry (5%) and Guin6e
ForestiOre (7%). The higher rates in Guinee ForestiOre probably stem from
conflict situations, including a large military presence, increased
migration, as well as the well traveled road going to neighboring
countries such as Cote d'Ivoire. In the late 1980s, the gender ratio of
HIV infected people, who reported to health facilities, was 8 men for one
woman. In 2000 the ratio has switched to 2 women for one man, indicating
that HIV/AIDS has spread to the general population, mainly through
heterosexual relations.The average age of AIDS cases has come down from 39
in 1989 to 26 in 1999. The HIV/AIDS epidemic has thus reached a level
which needs very rapid and firm action to prevent it spreading rapidly
like that was the case for the Central African Republic. CAR had a similar
prevalence rate of 4.7% among urban-based pregnant women in 1986, three
years later the rate reached 8% and ten years later it had climbed at
11.6%. The same scenario was seen in Cote d'Ivoire which had a 3% rate in
1986 among urban pregnant women, this rate increased to 8% two years later
and to 15% in 1991. In Guinea, some groups have extremely high rates: 42%
of commercial sex workers tested positive for HIV, 7.3% of the truck
drivers, 6.7? of the military, and 4.7? of the miners are infected. Using
EpiModel, it was estimated that in 2002, about 70 Guineans get infected
every day, and that there will be 6500 AIDS cases by 2007. A number of
factors contribute to the spread of HIV/AIDS, including: inadequate
knowledge and inappropriate attitudes, precocity of sexual relations, high
prevalence of risky behaviors, women's subordinate status, importance of
mining and trucking activities, large number of refugees and displaced
people, and, more generally, high incidence of poverty. About 40 percent
of households are below the poverty line. The high prevalence of sexually
transmitted infections (STI - an EDS survey in 1999 revealed that between
7 to 13% of the adults declared having had a STI during the last twelve
months, variations were dependent on matrimonial status, age, and where
the person lived) is a major factor in the spread of HIV/AIDS.Government
response to the HIV/AIDS challenge Since the notification of the first
AIDS case in 1987, the Government response has been slow and uncoordinated
but many efforts are underway. The PNLS was coordinated by a National
Committee created in November 2000 and chaired by the Minister of Health.
In early 2002 the PNLS was abolished to be replaced by a multi-sectoral
- 2 -



National AIDS Commission under the leadership of the Prime Minister. The
Commission's Executive Secretary was selected in May 2002. Focal points
for AIDS exist in most ministries, and Regional as well as Prefectoral
committees have been established under the chairmanship of the health
director in each Region and of the Medical officer in each Prefecture.
The prefectoral committee includes a representative of youth
organizations, a teacher and a prominent person at the local level. The
Government's National Budget has included a line item for AIDS since 1998,
which reached 138 million Guinean Francs (US$72,000) in 2001. The
following AIDS prevention activities are already underway and financed
from multiple sources: the Ministry of Agriculture trained 128 trainers,
1500 vulgarisateurs, and 1000 auxiliary agents in AIDS prevention who have
reached more than 700,000 agriculture workers and 110,000 cattle raisers.
The Bank-financed PACV project trained 50 persons in 33 prefectures. The
Bank-funded PPSG project financed several micro-projects related to AIDS
prevention. USAID and KfW finance a social marketing of condoms program
which is managed by a national NGO and covers the whole country, but the
condoms are not widely used in spite of their low price of GF 25 per unit
(US$0.02). USAID also provides technical assistance for drug stock
management. GTZ has been active in peer education. Canada is financing its
second AIDS/STI prevention project in two Regions and could increase its
coverage if further financing were available. WHO is involved in training.
UNICEF has been active in helping set up 22 anti-AIDS clubs in secondary
and technical schools. UNFPA is involved in condom provision among other
activities. The major mining company has started an AIDS prevention
campaign for its personnel. An HIV/AIDS network of NGOs called ROSEGUI has
been established, within which such NGOs as SIDALERTE and MST UNIVERSITE
work with truck drivers and commercial sex workers. For refugees, the
UNHCR and MSF, along with the NGO IRC, work on AIDS in refugee camps. At
present only the blood provided by donors is tested for HIV, although
there is a National Blood Transfusion Policy which includes the prevention
of HIV/AIDS. The European Union is planning to help set up a modern
national transfusion center. There is currently no program dealing with
mother-to-child transmission. UNAIDS set up an extended national
committee including bilateral donors. This Committee meets on a regular
basis for coordination purposes. With the creation of the National AIDS
Commission, the UNAIDS Committee will work in even closer collaboration
with Government.Assessment of results and shortcomings: In January 2002,
the MOH undertook a critical analysis of the Government's response to the
AIDS epidemics. It noted the following weaknesses: non functionality of
the different committees, poor coordination, poor intersectoral
collaboration, lack of political commitment by Ministries, lack of
information and training. Indeed, while initiatives taken so far are
steps in the right direction, their efficiency has been sorely limited by
lack of resources and the narrow focus on the health sector. The
Government therefore decided to adopt a multi-sectoral approach in the
fight against HIV/AIDS.   A National AIDS Commission was created, placed in
the Prime Minister's office, and its membership has been broadened. Line
Ministries are preparing action plans, and the Government is in the
process of finalizing its national strategy for the fight against AIDS.
Religious groups are increasingly involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS
and are expected to participate actively in the preparation of the
strategy and of its action plan. PLWA associations are established and
will be represented in the new institutional framework.Government strategy
The Government's inter-sectoral strategy for the fight against AIDS covers
-3 -



the period 2002-2006, and it emphasizes seven areas for action: (i)
activities covering the whole population, namely community mobilization
for HIV prevention; (ii) improving communication for behavior change
through local radios, religious leaders, and advocacy at various levels;
(iii) targeted interventions especially for youth, commercial sex workers,
refugees, miners, prisoners, military and police; (iv) health sector
response emphasizing epidemiological surveillance, STI control, blood
safety, mother to child transmission, and more generally testing and
counseling; (v) care and psycho-social support to HIV infected people and
affected families; (vi) research on HIV/AIDS; and (vii) strengthening the
institutional framework, where the national, regional and local AIDS
committees will be reinforced. Their membership will be broadened to
include representatives of institutions and groups active in the fight
against AIDS. Their operations will be strengthened through training and
allocation of additional resources. At the local level their role will be
to support initiatives by NGOs, local groups and more broadly, the civil
society. The National Commission will review action plans prepared by
line ministries and large enterprises and provide support as needed.
Certain areas of this plan will be covered by other donors than the World
Bank, in particular for refugees and basic research. Some donors are
already financing other areas on a small scale, which will be expanded
with Bank financing, such as targeted interventions for youth and STI
control. The Bank will intervene as a lender of last resort starting in
September 2003, after the first annual review. Government has committed to
invest some HIPC resources in AIDS. A request for funding will also be
made to the Global Fund for Malaria, AIDS and TB control end of June 2002.
2. Objectives
The proposed project is part of the World Bank's Multi-country HIV/AIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP2, report P7497 AFR) approved on
February 7, 2002. In accordance with the main goal of MAP2, the overall
objective of the project is to assist the Government of Guinea in limiting
and reversing the trend of the epidemic, by preventing new infections.
The project will support the implementation of the National Plan against
HIV/AIDS (Plan National de Lutte contre le SIDA - PNLS) for the period
FY03-06 and promote civil society and community initiatives for prevention
and care put forward by beneficiary groups. The National Plan is in the
process of being finalized. Its broad objectives are to:mitigate the
health and socioeconomic impact of HIV/AIDS at individual, household and
community levels; andcreate an enabling environment for an effective
partnership to implement the plan.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region places the
epidemic at the center of the development agenda. Curtailing the spread
of HIV is pivotal if human development and overall development goals in
the region and in countries such as Guinea are to be achieved. The Bank
has provided leadership to the donor community in assisting Guinea move
from a state-controlled economy to a market-based economy. It has helped
Guinea focus on poverty issues and strategies for improving the delivery
of basic services to the population. Considerable progress has been made
in past years. This progress is not sustainable, however, if strong
efforts backed by the international community are not made to help Guinea
implement its HIV/AIDS program. Donors have expressed interest in
supporting the program and indicated that Bank involvement was essential
- 4 -



for its success.
4. Description
The project will support implementation of Guinea's strategic plan
through a wide variety of public sector agencies, private and
non-governmental organizations, and community-based organizations. It
will be implemented over a five-year period. The project includes four
major components as follows:Support to community-based initiatives in the
area of prevention, social support, and mitigation. This component will
build upon the experience of the two Bank financed projects, PACV and
PPSG. Under this component, the project will support action plans and
proposals prepared by local communities, youth clubs, women organizations,
PLWA associations, as well as local NGOs and religious groups. Activities
will be identified by the communities through a participatory diagnosis
process supported by local NGOs specialized in this process. It is
expected that activities will include prevention, social support, and care
of AIDS cases. Local mining companies qualify as "communities" and are
expected to submit AIDS prevention and care activities for their employees
and their families, to be co-financed by the MAP. Informal sector miners,
working in diamond and gold mines, seem to be more difficult to organize,
therefore the Ministry of Mining has agreed to focus especially on them in
its action plan, but they will also be eligible in the community-based
initiatives component. The two largest trade unions, have made proposals
centered on the training of workers' delegates and the sensitization of
workers in the work place. Other private sector entities can also be
financed under this component, not as individuals but as "communities",
which means they have to be organized in some way. This component will be
phased geographically over the course of the project life. Specifically,
coverage will start in the communities already covered by the PACV, it
will then include urban areas, and will continue in communities covered by
PACV-like projects financed by other donors, to finally cover all 303
rural communities. PACV will cover only 100 of the 303 rural communities.
The size of any single activity is not expected to be large (many at
around US$1,000), with the larger activities for organizations needing
multi-year commitment. Quality will be controlled by the Ministry of Rural
Development which will be helped in this task by specialized institutions
such as qualified NGOs. The selection of those specialized institutions
will be made according to certain criteria and their mode of intervention
will be described in the Manual of Procedures. This component is expected
to receive about 45 percent of project funds.Support to Public Sectors.
Under this component, the project will support annual action plans
prepared by ministries, at the central and regional levels, and by other
public agencies. Several ministries have prepared action plans: the
Ministries of Health, Education, Interior, Mining, Social Affairs, Youth,
and Communications, and Commerce and Industry have already made concrete
proposals. These proposals will be formalized in Annual Agreements to be
signed by the CNLS Secretariat and the Central Ministry concerned. Some
Agreements will also be signed directly with Regional Representatives of
Ministries. The proposal made by the Ministry of Health covers the full
spectrum of prevention and care activities, in particular blood safety,
voluntary testing, prevention of mother-to-child transmission, and
sentinel sites. It is expected that 60t of the funds for this component
will go to the Ministry of Health. This is justified by the fact that the
Ministry of Health has a large role to play in terms of testing,
counseling, caring as well as in prevention through STI prevention
- 5-



programs. The proposal made by the Ministry of Education also includes
school-based AIDS education. The proposal by the Ministry of Communication
includes mainly reinforcing AIDS programmes of rural radios as well as
advocacy campaigns. Proposals made by other ministries focus mainly on
staff training and sensitization of the segment of population they serve.
Four national reference training guides will be designed by different
ministries, those guides will be used by all intervenants in Guinea. The
four guides are: (a) Guide for Peer Sexual Education, by the Ministry of
Education, but in collaboration with other ministries; (b) Guide for
counseling for testing, to be designed by the Ministry of Health; (c)
Guide for social mobilization, to be done by the Ministry of Youth; and
(d) Guide for advocacy and social communication to be designed by the
Ministry of Communication. This component is expected to receive about 30%
of project funds.Capacity building. The component will strengthen the
capacity of government agencies, civil society, rural organizations and
private sector to prepare and implement HIV/AIDS prevention and care
projects. It will reinforce the resource management, monitoring and
evaluation capacity of the HIV/AIDS committees. It will finance
cross-sectoral activities that need to be pooled, such as training,
advocacy, as well as technical assistance to sectors. It will provide
support and training to the HIV/AIDS units of line ministries, to the CNLS
Secretariat, and to other sectors. It will include a comprehensive
on-the-job training for health personnel in all activities related to
prevention and care. It will help NGOs provide support to local groups in
the formulation and execution of proposals. Most of the activities will
be contracted out to local or international institutions specialized in
communication or training. Some entities who have shown success in
executing HIV/AIDS/SIT programs, will also be contracted to rapidly expand
their services and to also serve as technical support to the CNLS and
Ministries in terms of building capacity in the different sectors they
work with mainly through training and supervision. In this regard
contracts will be established with GTZ, SIDA3/University of Montreal, and
AGBEF. Other specialized NGOs will be identified through a selection
process after the first year of implementation. This component is expected
to receive about 12% of project funds.Project coordination and
facilitation. This component will provide support to facilitate the
programming, coordination and monitoring of project operations, including
support to the HIV/AIDS committees. The project management component will
support the incremental cost of the executive secretariat, and the local
units. The secretariat will include a monitoring and evaluation unit
where a contract monitoring system will be installed. Funds will be
available for financing services provided by consultants. This component
is expected to receive about 12% of project funds.
Support to community based initiatives
Support to public sectors
Capacity Building
Project Coordination
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $2.00
IBRD
IDA $20.00
Total Project Cost $22.00
-6-



6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by a large number of public agencies and
civil society organizations. The CNLS secretariat will coordinate
implementation of the project at the national level and will operate on
the principle of "faire faire". The secretariat will include a maximum of
six professional staff: a program officer, a procurement specialist, a
financial and administrative specialist, a community initiatives/private
sector coordinator, a public sectorial response coordinator, and a
monitoring and evaluation specialist. Staff will be hired through a
competitive process. A number of tasks will be contracted out such as
financial management and contract monitoring. The CNLS will supervise
implementation of the project. Review groups will be established to
approve proposals made by public sector agencies and civil sector
organizations. Each review group will include about 7 representatives of
the public sector and of the civil society. Regional, prefectoral and
sub-prefectoral committees will supervise implementation of action plans
and proposals at local levels. The project will use existing decentralized
units of the PACV to help with certain administrative, financial and
procurement aspects. The procedures for preparation, appraisal, approval,
implementation and supervision of action plans and proposals will be
detailed in an operational manual. The manual will include procedures for
procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation. A draft
of the manual is a condition of Negotiations. The manual will be
finalized before Credit Effectiveness. To provide assistance to local
groups, several specialized NGOs will be identified and selected to train
local groups to design AIDS prevention and care activities which can be
financed by the project. Such NGOs already exist and are working with
local communities, doing participatory diagnosis and identifying relevant
activities. An NGO assessment is being undertaken in order to set up an
open roster of NGOs from which Government will select those to be
contracted for different services. Technical support will be made
available from a Financial Management Agency whose responsibilities will
include: (a) the establishment of a financial accounting management
system including installation of appropriate financial management software
that will meet GOG and IDA reporting requirements; (b) the overall
responsibility of the project's financial management by placing
(seconding): a full-time Financial Management Specialist in the CNLS
Secretariat. In addition, a Contract Management Agency will be hired whose
responsibilities will include: (a) the establishment of a computerized
contract tracking and monitoring system for the Secretariat of the CNLS.
Such system could be decentralized to the regional level. This system
should allow the early identification of problem contracts and should
provide the necessary checkpoints to trigger subsequent actions. It should
be linked to the financial and administrative procedures; (b) the overall
responsibility of technical contract management by placing the necessary
personnel in the CNLS Secretariat.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the program will depend on the degree to which the
strategy and activities become fully owned by the various partners at
national, regional, prefectoral, and local levels. It will hinge on
improved capacity at all levels to develop and implement action plans and
proposals that are effective in changing behaviors and providing care and
support to affected groups.
-7-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design takes into account the lessons learned from international
experience with HIV/AIDS programs, and from the implementation of
Bank-financed projects in Guinea.Key lessons learned from the experience
under MAP1 include:Importance of political leadership and commitment.
Experience shows that strong commitment from the top political and
religious leadership in the country is important for the success of
HIV/AIDS efforts. In recent months the President of the Republic of
Guinea, the Government and the leaders of the major religious groups have
demonstrated strong support for the program.Need for a multi-sectoral
approach. Experience in Guinea and in other countries has shown that
HIV/AIDS control activities start in the health sector, but need to be
expanded to other sectors rapidly.Need for community participation. Local
communities have a key role to play in the prevention of HIV/AIDS, the
care of infected people and the support to affected groups. The spread of
HIV/AIDS results in a heavy burden to local communities. They need
support to cope with the HIV/AIDS epidemic. They are able to express
their requirements. Appropriate mechanisms must be put in place to
facilitate the provision of support.MAP projects tended to lose momentum
after Board approval. Funds available under a PHRD grant are being used
to sensitize representatives of public sector and civil society
organizations, to establish program coordination and implementation
mechanisms and to train community development agents.A PPF will be
requested by Government to start pilot operations as soon as
possible.Importance of partnerships: some MAPs have been prepared very
fast and other development partners were not involved enough. In Guinea
the MAP worked through the UNAIDS group which was extended to other non-UN
partners.The tendency for some National AIDS Commission to become
bureaucracies: this was taken into account in Guinea by limiting the CNLS
to six professionals, and by not creating decentralized Units.Importance
of monitoring and evaluation. The design of the monitoring and evaluation
system should focus on who will use the indicators and how they will
influence the decision-making process. Baseline data are essential for
proper monitoring.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   The program is not expected to have major
environmental impacts. The handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS-infected
materials is the most significant issue. An assessment of current
practices will be carried out. A clinical waste management plan will be
prepared. It will include training on how to safely dispose of
contaminated blood and other materials. Health organizations benefiting
from proceeds to the credit will be required to demonstrate that they have
safe methods of waste disposal and that the training provided to their
staff includes precautions in handling sensitive materials.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Tonia Marek
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-0777
Fax: 202-473-8216
-8-



11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
9



