Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23881-GUI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR15.4 MILLION(US$ 20.30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
November 13, 2002
Human Development 2
Country Department 11
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 21, 2002)
Currency Unit = GNF
GNF 100 = US$.05 (or 5 cents)
US$1 = 1978 GNF
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACTafrica                AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AGBEF                    Guinean Association for Family Well-Being
ARV (T)                  Anti-retroviral (Therapy)
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                      Community-based Organization
CCC                      Communication for Changing Behavior
CDF                      Comprehensive Development Framework
CIDA                     Canadian International Development Agency
CNLS                     National Comittee for the fight against AIDS
CPLS                     Prefectoral Committee for the fight against AIDS
CRLS                     Regional Committee for the fight againt AIDS
CRD                      Communaute Rurale de Developpement (rural development communities)
DHS                      Demographic and Health Survey
EA                       Environmental Assessment
EDS                      Enquete Demographie et Sante
EMP                      Environment Management Plan
FMA                      Financial Management Agent
GNF                      Guinean Francs
GTZ                      German Technical Assistance Organization
HCR                      Haut Commissariat aux RefugiJs
HIPC                     Highly Indebted Poor Country
HIV-OI/STI               Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Opportunistic Infection/Sexually transmitted infection
LkPSO                    Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IDP                      Internally displaced persons
KAP                      Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
MAP                      Multi-sectoral AIDS Project
PACV                     Projet d'Appui aux Communautes Villageoises
PMTCT                    Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission
PLWHA/PWS                Person living with HIVIAIDS/Personnes vivant avec VIHISIDA
PNLS                     Plan National de lutte contre le SIDA
PNPCSP                   Programme national de la prise en charge sanitaire et de la prevention
PPSG                     Projet Population et Sante Gdndsique
PRSP                     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSI                      Population Services International, NGO
UNIPAC                   United Nations Children's Fund Procurement and Assembly Center
URD                      Unite Regional de De'veloppement (Regional Development Unit)
VCT                      Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:        Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:       Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader:        Tonia Marek



GUINEA
MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                  Page
1. Project development objective                                                   2
2. Key performance indicators                                                      2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  11
3. Benefits and target population                                                 11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies     14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                               15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                    16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       16
2. Financial                                                                      16
3. Technical                                                                      16
4. Institutional                                                                  17
5. Environmental                                                                  20
6. Social                                                                         20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                             22



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  22
2. Critical risks                                                                   22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   23
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          23
2. Other                                                                            23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       39
Annex 4: Guinea Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project                                            40
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  41
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  42
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   54
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 56
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                58
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          59
Annex 11: Supervision Arrangements                                                     61
MAP(S)
IBRD 31718



GUINEA
MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: November 13, 2002                          Team Leader: Tonia Marek
Sector Manager: Alexandre V. Abrantes            Sector(s): Agricultural extension and research (40%),
Country Director: Mamadou Dia                    General information and communications sector (25%),
Project ID: P073378                              Health (15%), Other social services (10%), Secondary
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  education (10%)
Theme(s): Fighting communicable diseases (P)
Project Financing Data-
[ ] Loan    [ Credit     [X] Grant    [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $20.3
Financing Plan-(USm):    Source -                          Local - - - Foreign          Total
BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                            2.00           0.00          2.00
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                       14.80           5.50         20.30
Total:                                                       16.80           5.50         22.30
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA
Responsible agency:
National Committee for the Fight against AIDS (CNLS)
Contact Person: Dr Hadja Mariama Dielo Barry
Tel: 224-29-46-87/21-62-88/25-01-93/46-46-00       Fax:            Email: cnlsidaO2@yahoo.fr
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
i-~.IFY          NO                             2006       2007      _
Annual      3.00      3.36 |    4.41       5.21      4.32
Cumulative     3.00      6.36      10.77     15.98      20.30
Project Implementation period: Five years (Year 1 amount includes PPF of $700,000)
Expected effectiveness date: 04/03/2003 Expected closing date: 07/31/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project is part of the World Bank's Multi-country BIV/AIDS Program for the
Africa Region (MAP2, report P7497 AFR*) approved on February 7, 2002. In accordance with the main
goal of MAP2, the overall objective of the project is to limit and reverse the trend of the epidemic, by
preventing new infections. The project will support the implementation of the National Plan against
HIV/AIDS (Plan National de Lutte contre le SIDA - PNLS) for the period FY03-06 and promote civil
society and community initiatives for prevention and care put forward by beneficiary groups. The project
will also contribute to building capacity for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment, and mitigation
activities.
*Up to present, 16 MAPs have been approved for Africa, 13 are effective, and all are rated Satisfactory on their
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Based on the nature of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and the experience of other countries, the impact
of project-supported activities would be difficult to assess in terms of a reduction of HlV/AIDS
prevalence in the overall population or of increased life expectancy within the five-year implementation
period. However, a measurable impact can be expected among key target groups as set out in the
outcome indicators of the logical framework (Annex 1).
The project's development objective is to limit and reverse the trend of the epidemic by
preventing new infections, to be measured by the following main indicators, complemented by those of
Annex 1:
Outcome Indicators
*   at least 55% of high risk groups (men in uniform, miners and commercial sex workers) used condoms
during their last sexual encounter in 2007 (the figure for formal sector miners was 19% in 2001);
*   at least 50% of men and women who are aware of AIDS have used a condom with a partner other
than their regular partner in the last twelve months (the numbers in 1999 were 27% for men and 18%
for women), by 2007;
*   keep the HIV prevalence rate among 15-24 year old urban pregnant women below 5% by 2006 (it
was at 4.4% in 2001 among all urban pregnant women);
*   increase by at least 1,500 the number of orphans who attend school regularly as of 2004.
Output Indicators
*   No cases of HIV/AIDS traceable to a hospital blood transfusion by 2007.
Process Indicators
*    80% of 303 CRDs to be implementing 80% of their annual FHV/AIDS plans by 2007;
Input Indicators
*   fund 42 urban projects (supporting prostitutes, truckers, and orphans for example) by 2005; and
- 2 -



about 100 by 2007;
* fund about 300 rural projects (supporting PLWH, vulnerable groups and high-risk groups) by 2005
and about 1000 by year 2007;
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 7183 GUI, dated 11/21/1997 Date of latest CAS discussion: November 1997
The 1997 CAS acknowledged Guinea's weak administration and poor governance and
emphasized the progress the Government had made in the recent past to strengthen human and
institutional capacity and improve governance. The CAS focused on helping to reduce poverty in Guinea
through; (i) improving access to basic services; (ii) increasing economic growth and creating
income-earning and employment opportunities, particularly for the rural poor; and (iii) improving
governance and strengthening institutional and human capacity. AIDS was first mentioned as a problem
in the July 2001 "CAS Progress Report".
The Executive Directors discussed Guinea's interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in
December 2000 and a CAS Progress Report in July 2001. A new CAS will be prepared on the basis of
the priorities set in the full PRSP, a first draft of which was written in January 2002. The objectives of
the interim PRSP are fully aligned with those of the 1997 CAS and it supplements it by dealing with
AIDS. It emphasizes the need to take up the challenge of dealing with the emerging AIDS threat and set
forth two objectives in that area: (i) stabilize or reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS and (ii) control its
socioeconomic impact. The CAS progress report indicates that Guinea has made advances in reducing
macroeconomic imbalances, despite increased military expenditures due to worsening security conditions
in three neighboring countries, in restructuring its economy, and in increasing primary enrollment rates,
including for girls. It also indicates that, before discussion of a full CAS, Bank activities would address
two urgent emerging issues: the HIV/AI)S epidemic, in response to a request of the President of Guinea,
and the reconstruction needs arising from the refugee/internally displaced persons (IDP) issue. It is in
this context that a project is proposed for Bank assistance in the framework of MAP2.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Past failures and challenges from an unsettled envirovment. Guinea is recovering from the
failure of a centrally planned economy, which prevailed until the mid-1980s. The introduction of
multi-party democracy in 1994 improved political accountability, even if elections have been plagued
with widespread irregularities. For much of the past decade, Guinea has been home to nearly half a
million of refugees from its two southern neighbors, Liberia and Sierra Leone. In September 2000, it
suffered from cross-border incursions, which have caused the displacement of populations and damage to
infrastructure. Since 2001 the security situation improved in Sierra Leone, but has remained fragile in
Liberia.
Poor social indicators. In the 1990s, Guinea made significant strides in human development,
particularly in education, and managed to reduce the gap relative to averages for sub-Saharan Africa
(SSA). School enrollments increased from under 30 percent in the 1980s to 56 percent by the end of the
1990s. Girl enrollment rates doubled from 20 to 40 percent. Important achievements were made in the
health sector during the past decade to develop a basic health care system. Vaccination rates for Polio3
increased from 15% in 1982, to 17% in 1990, and reached 54% in 1995. However, Guinea continues to
compare poorly with other SSA countries. In 1999, for instance, one child out of four suffered from
chronic malnutrition and one woman out of ten suffered from acute malnutrition.
- 3 -



Successes to build upon. Guinea was a pioneer in implementing a decentralized cost-recovery
system for primary health care. The success of this system might be in great part responsible for the
higher decrease in infant mortality among the poor than among the non-poor in the 90's, a result in equity
that no other country of Africa has achieved. In the last few years however, it seems that local health
committees started mismanaging the committee's funds due to lack of proper supervision. In addition, the
bankruptcy of the Bank where all the committees' revolving funds were held also contributed to the
problem. Another success in Guinea is its tuberculosis control program which covers the whole country
with the DOTS system which was established in 1990. Since its inception, the program has never
experienced a drug stock-out. All donors, under the leadership of the national TB program, plan drug
supply needs, drug procurement, and drug distribution in a collaborative manner. The program detected
66% of the estimated new infectious TB cases in 2000, while the global target for case detection is 70%.
It is estimated that approximately 17% of new TB patients are infected with HIV.
Epidemiological Situation of HIV/AIDS. The low HIV prevalence rate reported in official
records in the past few years is more a reflection of poor reporting and monitoring than of the true
epidemiological situation in Guinea. The sentinel sites established to monitor sexually transmitted
infections (STIs) and HIUV/AIDS prevalence have been nonfunctional since 1996. In the absence of data,
the Guinean HIV prevalence rates were likened to those of Senegal, its neighbor, where the population of
reproductive age, for example, had a prevalence rate of approximately 3 % in 2000. However, the
national prevalence survey undertaken in July 2001 showed that the HIV prevalence rate was much
higher than estimated. The prevalence rate among pregnant women had reached the critical point of 4.4
% in the urban areas throughout the country, with even higher rates in Conakry (5%) and Guin&e
Forestnre (7%). The higher rates in Guinee Forestiere are probably due to the state of conflict in that
region, the large military presence, increased migration, and the heavily traveled roads leading to and
from neighboring countries such as the Cote d'lvoire. In the late 1980s, the gender ratio of HIV-infected
patients reporting to health facilities was 8 men for 1 woman. In 2000, the ratio shifted to 2 women for
one man, clearly showing that HIV/AIDS had spread to the general population, mainly through
heterosexual relations. The average age of AIDS cases has decreased from 39 years old in 1989 to 26
years old in 1999. These rates show that the epidemic is clearly picking up speed and must be halted
through rapid and effective actions to prevent the devastation which occurred in Central African
Republic. CAR also had a prevalence rate of 4.7% among urban pregnant women in 1986; three years
later the rate reached 8%; and ten years later it had climbed to 11.6%. The progression of the epidemic
was similar in Cote d'lvoire where 3% of urban pregnant women were infected in 1986, increasing to 8%
two years later, and climbing to 15% in 1991. In Guinea, studies have shown some groups to have
extremely high rates: 42% of commercial sex workers, 7.3% of truck drivers, 6.7% of military, and 4.7%
of miners. EpiModel estimates indicate that in 2002 about 70 Guineans would be infected per day,
resulting in 6500 AIDS cases by 2007.
A number of factors contribute to the spread of HIV/AIDS: inadequate knowledge and
inappropriate attitudes, sexuality at an early age, high prevalence of risky behavior, subordinate status
and lack of empowerment among women, importance of mining and trucking activities, and large
numbers of refugees and displaced people. In addition, the high prevalence of STIs (between 7 to 13% of
adults declared having had a STI during the last twelve months, with variations depending on
matrimonial status, age, and domicile, according to an EDS survey in 1999) is a major factor in the
spread of HIV/AIDS. Finally, Guinea's high incidence of poverty -- about 40 percent of households
below the poverty line - underlies the epidemic, leaving an extremely vulnerable population.
Government response to the HIV/AIDS challenge
-4 -



Although the Government response was slow and uncoordinated following the notification of
the first AIDS case in 1987, some steps were taken. The PNLS was coordinated by a National
Commnission created in November 2000 and chaired by the Minister of Health. In early 2002 the PNLS
was abolished to be replaced by a multi-sectoral National AIDS Commnission under the leadership of the
Prime Minister. The Commission's Executive Secretary was selected in May 2002. Focal points for AIDS
exist in most central ministries, and both Regional and Prefectoral committees have been established
under the chairmanship of the health director in each Region and of the Medical officer in each District.
The prefectoral committee includes a representative of youth organizations, a teacher, and a prominent
person at the local level. The Government's National Budget has included a line item for AIDS since
1998, which reached 138 million Guinean Francs (US$72,000) in 2001. The following AIDS prevention
activities were underway by project preparation and financed from multiple sources: the Ministry of
Agriculture trained 128 trainers, 1500 monitors, and 1000 auxiliary agents in AIDS prevention who have
reached more than 700,000 agriculture workers and 110,000 cattle raisers. The Bank-financed PACV
project trained 50 persons in 33 districts. The Bank-funded PPSG project financed several
micro-projects related to AIDS prevention. USAID and KfW financed a social marketing of condoms
program which is managed by a national NGO and covers the whole country (although the condoms are
not widely used in spite of their low price of GF 25 per unit (US$0.02)). USAID provided technical
assistance for drug stock management. GTZ was active in peer education. Canada financed its second
AIDS/STI prevention project in two Regions and could increase its coverage if further financing were
available. WHO has been involved in training. UNICEF has been active in helping set up 22 anti-AIDS
clubs in secondary and technical schools. UNFPA has been involved in condom provision among other
activities. The major mining company has started an AIDS prevention campaign for its personnel. An
HIV/AIDS network of NGOs called ROSEGUI has been established, within which such NGOs as
SIDALERTE and MST UNIVERSITE work with truck drivers and commercial sex workers. The UNHCR
and MSF, along with the International Red Cross, have been fighting AIDS in refugee camps.
At the time of project preparation only the blood provided by donors was being tested for HIV,
although a National Blood Transfusion Policy existed which included the prevention of HIV/AIDS. The
European Union is planning to help set up a modern national transfusion center. Prior to project start
there was no program dealing with mother-to-child transmission.
UNAIDS set up an extended national committee including bilateral donors. This Committee was
meeting on a regular basis for coordination purposes. With the creation of the National AIDS
Commission, the UNAIDS Committee will work in even closer collaboration with Government.
Assessment of results and shortcomings: In January 2002, the MOH undertook a critical analysis of the
Government's response to the AIDS epidemic. It noted the following weaknesses: no activity in some of
the committees, poor coordination, poor inter-sectoral collaboration, lack of political commitment by
Ministries, lack of information and training. Indeed, while the initiatives taken thus far are steps in the
right direction, their efficiency has been sorely limited by lack of resources and the narrow focus on the
health sector. The Government therefore decided to adopt a multi-sectoral approach in the fight against
HIV/AIDS. A National AIDS Commission was created, placed in the Prime Minister's office, and its
membership has been broadened. Twelve of 22 Ministries prepared action plans, and the Government
finalized its national strategy for the fight against AIDS. Religious groups are increasingly involved in
the fight against HIV/AIDS and are expected to participate actively in the implementation of the strategy.
PLWHA associations are established and will be represented in the new institutional framework. Several
studies were undertaken to identify high-risk groups and their behaviors. A capacity assessment of NGOs
was undertaken by a large international NGO, and a NGO roster was established during project
preparation, which will be updated regularly, as NGOs get training and can therefore satisfy the criteria
-5 -



to enter into this roster.
Government strategy
The Government's inter-sectoral strategy for the fight against AIDS covers the period 2002-2006
and emphasizes seven areas for action: (i) activities covering the whole population, namely community
mobilization for HIV prevention; (ii) improving communication for behavior change through local
radios, religious leaders, and advocacy at various levels; (iii) targeted interventions especially for youth,
commercial sex workers, refugees, miners, prisoners, military, and police; (iv) health sector response
emphasizing epidemiological surveillance, STI control, blood safety, mother to child transmission, and
general testing and counseling; (v) care and psycho-social support to HIV infected people and affected
families; (vi) research on H[V/AIDS; and (vii) strengthening the institutional framework, where the
national, regional and local AIDS committees will be reinforced. Their membership will be broadened to
include representatives of institutions and groups active in the fight against AIDS. Their operations will
be strengthened through training and allocation of additional resources. At the local level their role will
be to support initiatives by NGOs, local groups, and the civil society at large. The National Commission
will review action plans prepared by line ministries and large enterprises and provide support as needed.
Some of these areas for action -- such as refugee work and basic research -- will be managed by donors
other than the World Bank. Some donors are already financing activities such as targeted interventions
for youth and STI control on a small scale, which will be expanded with Bank financing. The Bank will
intervene as a donor of last resort following the first annual review, thereby assisting Government to
finance the program. Furthermore, Government has committed some HIPC resources to the fight against
AIDS, and a request for funding has been made to the Global Fund for Malaria, AIDS and TB control in
2002 to complement the IDA financed project and other activities.
The new Director of the National AIDS Commission has taken the lead in donor coordination,
effectively using the Guinea extended UNAIDS group. The annual reviews of the national HIV/AIDS
program will be led by Govemment and greatly contribute to donor coordination.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Eligibility of Guinea for MAP. The Government requested Bank support for its H[V/AIDS program in
the framework of MAP 2, rendering Guinea eligible for MAP funding, having satisfied the four criteria:
*   Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS. A comprehensive and broad-based
HIV/AIDS national strategy for 2002 to 2006, including adequate strategies for prevention, and for
care and support, was finalized through a consultative process. The President and Prime Minister are
strongly involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and key cabinet members are active in the
sensitization on HIV/AIDS issues.
*   A high-level HIV/AIDS coordinating body. The National HIV/AIDS Committee was established
under the supervision of the Prime Minister by a Decree signed by the President of the Republic on
March 5, 2002. A Secretariat was established as its Executive Secretary was selected in May 2002.
All Secretariat members were recruited through a competitive process.
* Government agreement to use exceptional implementation arrangements. The Government
established a Secretariat to coordinate implementation of the HIV/AIDS program under the
supervision of the new CNLS. The Government agreed to contract out financial management
activities. A contract management firm will be hired to help set up a monitoring and early warning
system for the various contracts which the Secretariat will finance. Selection of a Financial
- 6 -



Management Agent will be a condition for effectiveness.
* Government agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies. The Government
has requested all ministries and public enterprises to prepare HIV/AIDS programs. It has agreed to
fund activities undertaken by the private sector, civil society organizations, including religious
groups, local associations, and conununities. It has agreed to enlist the support of traditional healers
and birth attendants. It was also agreed that existing institutions which are performing well will be
contracted to expand coverage more rapidly. For example, GTZ will be contracted to improve
coverage among youth, and the University of Montreal (the SIDA3 project)will be contracted to
continue their STI/HIV/A1DS activities in selected regions.
Other Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Weak institutional capacity and limited partnership with civil society. The intensification of
the prevention effort and the introduction of orphan-support will require significant strengthening and
coordination of the concerned institutions, services, and systems, notably:
* systems and procedures for channeling funds more efficiently to the grassroots on a large
scale;
* developing capacity at the regional and prefectoral levels through accelerated training of
technicians in the areas of VCT (especially for pregnant women), ART, treatment of OIs and
STIs, procedures to ensure safe blood supplies and the safe handling of medical waste;
* partnerships within the civil society to strengthen and develop local capacity to deliver
prevention and care at a decentralized level;
* monitoring and evaluation, which becomes more complex as a result of greater grassroots
involvement;
*   research and dissemination activities: consolidation of existing, successful collaborative
operational research arrangements and enhancement of Guinea's role in disseminating best
practices to other countries in the Region;
* procurement of drugs, testing kits, and related services to ensure that regional and district
services are supplied efficiently and on time.
The project will begin with core activities that are ready for implementation. Support to capacity
building will help galvanize the fight against EHV/AIDS and STIs, as well as organize prevention
and care activities in sectors and communities not yet engaged. Civil servants in all ministries
will be trained in FHV/AIDS prevention and care activities, and a pool of trainers in each
ministry will be able to replicate training as needed.
Prevention at the grassroots level. Although there is now broad agreement on prevention as a
national priority, much work is still to be done, particularly with regards to:
*   Non-schooled youth, aged 20 to 24, who have an lIV prevalence of 4.9%, must be educated
about disease transmission and protection, and encouraged to postpone first sexual
encounters. To be effective, this group must be reached in the last years of primary school,
before sexual activity begins.
*   Truck drivers, who have an HJV prevalence of 7.3%, are major carriers and spreaders of the
disease. Specific activities need to be set up at all major truck stops.
*   Miners, who have an HIV prevalence of 4.7%, will be reached through the private firms who
employ them, while self-employed miners will be reached through NGOs.
- 7 -



*   Commercial sex workers, who have an HIV prevalence of 42%, will be provided with peer
education and special STIIBIV prevention measures.
*   Men/Women in uniform, who have an HIV prevalence of 7%, need to be informed about
prevention and have condoms available at all times.
The project will finance NGOs and institutions which are already working with those groups, and
will add a quality enhancement dimension as some institutions in Guinea are specialized in
certain areas such as youth counselling, STI control, social marketing of condoms, and so on.
Those institutions will be financed by the project to ensure that activities are expanded rapidly
and that quality of services remain at a standard.
Health sector issues. Although Guinea was a pioneer in implementing a decentralized
cost-recovery system, the present-day health services need significant resources to prevent the system
from collapsing. It is hoped that HIPC funds can be used to reconstitute the drug supply which has
suffered in great part from the bankruptcy of the commercial bank where all the revolving funds were
held. A biannual monitoring system of the health services is still carried out in a very professional
manner, but the lack of vaccines and drugs is having a detrimental effect on attendance. Government has
requested IDA resources for a health sector program, which should help revive service delivery. Their
request is being met by a loan to be channelled through the upcoming programmatic lending through
PRSC which should be available in early 2003. The private sector will also need to be mobilized in order
to improve coverage of HiV/AIDS/STI prevention, and the HIV/AIDS project will initiate such
partnership. Although there is a network of more than 500 private pharmacies, medical, and
para-medical offices, the Government has not worked with them to date. In addition, traditional healers
will be mobilized and trained in HIV/AIDS prevention and care.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will support implementation of Guinea's strategic plan through a wide variety of
public sector agencies, private and non-governmental organizations, and community-based organizations.
It will be implemented over a five-year period. The project includes four major components as described
below. The content of those components were extensively discussed with the different stakeholders
during preparation, through national and local workshops, and agreed upon with the Government at
negotiations:
Support to community-based initiatives. The main objective of this component is to empower
communities to address HIV/AIDS prevention, care, mitigation, and support. Grant resources will be
provided to support a broad range of community, civil society and private sector initiatives. The notion of
community is very broad. It can be any small group of less than 10,000 people who form an association,
including different categories, such as youth groups, groups of prostitutes, of miners, of orphans, of
villagers, of PLWAs; or it can be a larger group of 10,000 people or more, encompassing populations
from across communities, such as large workers unions, large mining companies. This component will
provide the resources for a wide spectrum of preventive and care-giving activities at the local level. At
this time, ART, with its consequent and difficult management, is not expected to be undertaken at the
local level. For a community to be eligible for financing by the MAP, it will have to meet some criteria
such as (a) having designed its HIV/AIDS prevention plan based on a participatory approach; (b)
co-financing those activities for at least 10%, in cash or kind (more if the community is a "for profit"
private sector); (c) the activities cannot be those of the negative list as it appears in the Operational
- 8 -



Manual.
Since HIV/AIDS is not a subject about which many communities have strong felt needs, the
MAP will finance participatory diagnosis to stimulate demand through NGOs who will work with the
communities. This component will build upon the instruments developed in the Health Project's (PPSG)
Social Fund component (FAP), and the participatory approach used by the PACV project, both financed
by IDA. Communities will be asked to set up a revolving fund in order to sustain their efforts.
There are two main types of NGOs: those that will help local communities carry out their
participatory diagnosis, and those that are specialized and will be hired to provide certain services. The
latter type is considered under the "Capacity Building" component. For both types of NGOs, the ones
which will be contracted will be those which are part of the register set up by the CNLS. This is an open
register which identifies the capacities and specialty of NGOs and was set up during the NGO assessment
undertaken during project preparation. This roster will be updated with new NGOs who want to be part
of it, and an assessment of the capacity of that NGO will be carried out at that time. No contract with a
local NGO will be more than 9 million FG (US$4,500) at a time, increases may be considered based on a
performance review at the time of the Mid-Term Review.
With support from NGOs specialized in participatory process, each local community will identify
its activities, prepare and submit an action plan to its governing CRD or urban commune, which will
judge the pertinence and content of the activities proposed using a checklist attached in the operational
manual. Among other things, the checklist will ensure that proposed activities are not part of the negative
list of the project. It will also ensure that the action plans proposed result from a participatory diagnosis
process, fit into the CRD's (or the urban commune's) overall strategy for fighting HIV/AIDS and that
benefiting communities are not receiving funding from other sources for the same activities. Moreover, it
will ensure that the action plans follow the main axes of activities supported by the project. After
evaluation and approval of the action plans submitted by local communities, the CRD or urban commune
will submit a package of action plans to the project for financing. The project will sign a financing
agreement with, and deposit the grant amount into the treasury of the CRD/urban commune. The
CRD/urban commune in turn will sign an implementation agreement with, and disburse the grant to
benefiting communities. In both cases, the disbursement procedures will be detailed in the financial
manual of the project. The CRD will supervise implementation of the action plans, along with the
District and the Regional MAP Coordinators, and provide progress reports to the CNLS on a timely
basis. One community can receive several such grants if it has successfully completed the previous ones.
An evaluation will be carried out at the end of year 1 on a sample of communities to assess the impact
and the extent to which the objectives were met, and if the amount of the grant limit should be revised.
Coverage will start in the communities already covered by the PACV, and will continue in communities
covered by PACV-like projects financed by other donors, to reach all 303 rural communities and all 38
urban communes by the year 2007. The size of a grant for most community-based activities is expected to
be small, not exceeding US$1,000 for a community of 10,000 people. One community can receive
several such grants if it has successfully completed the previous ones. However, larger organizations will
receive more funding and will be awarded multi-year commitments. Quality will be checked by the
Ministry of Rural Development which will be helped in this task by specialized institutions such as
qualified NGOs. This component is expected to receive about 45 % of project funds.
Support to the Public Sector. Under this component, the project will support annual action plans
prepared by ministries, at the central and regional levels, and by other public agencies. Several ministries
have prepared action plans: the Ministries of Health, Education, Interior, Mining, Social Affairs, Youth,
and Communications, and Commerce and Industry have already made concrete proposals. These
-9-



proposals will be formalized in Annual Agreements to be signed by the CNLS Secretariat and the Central
Ministry concerned. Those Agreements will also include each Ministry's Regional plans with their
separate lists of activities and budgets. The proposal made by the Ministry of Health covers the full
spectrum of prevention and care activities, in particular blood safety, voluntary testing, prevention of
mother-to-child transmission, sentinel sites, and a pilot antiretroviral therapy for around 150 patients as
of January 2004. It is expected that about half of the funds for this component will go to the Ministry of
Health. This is justified by the fact that the Ministry of Health has a large role to play in terms of testing,
counseling, caring as well as in prevention through STI prevention programs. The proposal made by the
Ministry of Education also includes school-based AIDS education. The proposal by the Ministry of
Communication includes mainly reinforcing AIDS programs of rural radios as well as advocacy
campaigns. Proposals made by other ministries focus mainly on staff training and sensitization of the
segment of population they serve. Four national reference training guides will be designed by different
ministries, and the guides will be used by all involved personnel in the country. The four guides are: (a)
Guide for Peer Sexual Education, by the Ministry of Education, but in collaboration with other
ministries; (b) Guide for counseling for testing, to be designed by the Ministry of Health; (c) Guide for
social mobilization, to be done by the Ministry of Youth; and (d) Guide for advocacy and social
communication to be designed by the Ministry of Communication. This component is expected to receive
about 30% of project funds.
Capacity building. The component will strengthen the capacity of government agencies, civil society,
rural organizations and private sector to prepare and implement HIV/AIDS prevention and care projects.
It will reinforce the resource management, monitoring and evaluation capacity of the HIV/AIDS
committees. It was agreed during negotiations that the Recipient shall carry out data collection surveys
during thefirst year of the Project, prior to the midterm review and at the completion of the Project. It
will finance cross-sectoral activities that need to be pooled, such as training, advocacy, as well as
technical assistance to sectors. It will provide support and training to the HIV/AIDS units of line
ministries, to the CNLS Secretariat, and to other sectors. It will include a comprehensive on-the-job
training for health personnel in all activities related to prevention and care. It will help NGOs provide
support to local groups in the formulation and execution of proposals. Most of the activities will be
contracted out to local or international institutions specialized in communication or training. Some
entities who have shown success in executing HIV/AIDS/STI programs, will also be contracted to rapidly
expand their services and to also serve as technical support to the CNLS and Ministries in terms of
building capacity in the different sectors they work with mainly through training and supervision. In this
regard contracts can be established with GTZ, University of Montreal, and AGBEF, which are agencies
that have been in operation in Guinea for several years, have demonstrated their capacity, and can
increase their activities if further financing is available to them Other specialized NGOs will be
identified through a selection process after the first year of implementation. Considering the importance
of adequately trained personnel for the implementation of this project, it was agreed during negotiations
that the Recipient shall, no later than March 15, 2003, adopt training modules for training of traine;s
program for thefirst project year, inform and substance satisfactory to the Association. This component
is expected to receive about 12% of project funds.
Project coordination and facilitation. This component will provide support to facilitate the
programming, coordination and monitoring of project operations, including support to the HIV/AIDS
committees. The project management component will support the incremental cost of the executive
secretariat, and the local units. The secretariat will include a monitoring and evaluation unit where a
contract monitoring system will be installed. It was agreed during negotiations that the Recipient shall,
by March 15, 2003, develop and establish a computerized contract tracking and monitoring system.
Funds will be available for financing services provided by consultants. This component is expected to
- 10 -



receive about 12% of project funds.
--       ~-. -. -            - .    .    .   ndicative   - :       Bank-7:  96 0?of:
- '---I--~Component'--- ----  -Costs-    :%of     financing  . Bank-
-- -.            - - (US$M) 'Total .     (US$M)    financing
Support to community based initiatives              10.00     44.8      10.00     49.3
Support to public sectors                            6.94      31.1     5.94      29.3
Capacity Building                                    2.66      11.9      1.66      8.2
Project Coordination                                 2.70      12.1     2.70      13.3
Total Project Costs  22.30   100.0     20.30     100.0
Total Financing Required  22.30     100.0     20.30     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Although the project is not designed to support policy reform in any sector, it will have a major
impact on how the government carries out certain responsibilities: (i) the project will support the
decentralization policy initiated by the Government to build up the capacity of local communities and
make them better able to address their development challenges. The capacity of local communities,
associations, local clubs, NGOs and more generally civil society organizations to prepare and implement
projects will be enhanced; (ii) the project will also strengthen the capacity of public institutions,
including the HIV/AJDS committees and secretariat at the national, regional, and prefectoral levels. It
will enhance inter-ministerial coordination and establish a strong monitoring and evaluation system; and
finally, (iii) the project will improve public-private partnership through support to civil society and
community-led initiatives, through the support to the private sector delivering health services via a type
of accreditation system, through the co-financing of activities for miners with large mining companies,
and through collaboration with the traditional healers to improve management of opportunistic infections
and counselling.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will contribute to lowering Guinea's burden of diseases due to such infections as
STIs and tuberculosis through targeting these and other opportunistic infections. The risk of an even
higher child mortality rate will be lowered by reducing the number of HlV-infected newborns. Project
interventions targeted to orphans, widows, rural poor, miners, and transporters will rnitigate the econormic
and social impact of AIDS. Cost savings are expected from the decrease in future needs for treatment,
care and support. The slowing of the spread of HIV will have a positive impact on economic growth as
demonstrated by international experience. The project will contribute to extending the productive life of
people living with FHV/AIDS through provision of care and assistance. It will strengthen the capacity of
local communities to provide support to groups affected by HIV/AI)S, including orphans, and will
streamline the procedures for transferring resources to local communities.
The entire population of Guinea will benefit from the project. Care will be taken during project
implementation that communities are not left behind, and, on the other hand, high-powered groups do not
get disproportionate support from the project. Youth, women, and high-risk groups (sex workers, truck
drivers, military, and miners) will be specifically targeted by the prevention programs supported by the
project. The people currently HIV infected will receive improved care. This will benefit their immediate
families. Orphans and families headed by children will be specifically targeted for support.
It is estimated that the grant will help reach about 50% of the country's population through one or several
of the following means: information on EHV/AIDS, voluntary testing and counseling, STI diagnosis and
-11 -



treatment, blood safety, condom access, ARV treatment, management of opportunistic infections.
Coverage of some target groups will be higher, for example 100% of miners in the formal sector,
two-third of youth 15-19 years old, half of the commercial sex workers, of the truck drivers and of the
military will be reached. Other financing from other donors will help reach the remaining population. For
example, the HCR and NGOs such as Medecins Sans Frontires which are working with refugees.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented by a large number of public agencies and civil society
organizations. The CNLS secretariat will coordinate implementation of the project at the national level
and will operate on the principle of "fairefaire". The secretariat will include a maximum of seven
professional staff: an executive secretary, a deputy officer, a procurement specialist, a financial and
adrninistrative specialist, a community initiatives/private sector coordinator, a public sectorial response
coordinator, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist. Staff will be hired through a competitive
process. A number of tasks will be contracted out such as financial management and contract
monitoring. The CNLS will supervise implementation of the project. Review groups will be established
to approve proposals made by public sector agencies and civil sector organizations. Each review group
will include about 7 representatives of the public sector and of the civil society.
Regional, prefectoral and sub-prefectoral committees will supervise implementation of action
plans and proposals at local levels. The CNLS will recruit four regional supervisors, one for each natural
region, who will work within and with existing decentralized units of the PACV to help with certain
administrative, and technical aspects, including monitoring and evaluation.
The procedures for preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of action
plans and proposals will be detailed in an operational manual. The procedures manual will include a
project implementation plan, a financial management manual, and a procurement plan along with
technical procedures for implementation as well as description on how to carry out the monitoring and
evaluation. The manual will befinalized before Grant Effectiveness.
To provide assistance to local groups, several specialized NGOs will be identified and selected to
train local groups to design AIDS prevention and care activities which can be financed by the project.
Such NGOs already exist and are working with local communities, doing participatory diagnosis and
identifying relevant activities. An NGO assessment is being undertaken in order to set up an open roster
of NGOs from which Government will select those to be contracted for different services.
Technical support will be made available from a Financial Management Agency whose
responsibilities will include: (a) the establishment of a financial accounting management system
including installation of appropriate financial management software that will meet GOG and IDA
reporting requirements; (b) the overall responsibility of the project's financial management by placing
(seconding): a full-time Financial Management Specialist in the CNLS Secretariat.
In addition, a Contract Management Agency may be hired whose responsibilities will include: (a)
the establishment of a computerized contract tracking and monitoring system for the Secretariat of the
CNLS. Such system could be decentralized to the regional level. This system should allow the early
identification of problem contracts and should provide the necessary checkpoints to trigger subsequent
actions. It should be linked to the financial and administrative procedures; (b) the overall responsibility
of technical contract management by placing the necessary personnel in the CNLS Secretariat.
- 12 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project preparation team was guided by the work done under the first phase of the
Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP I) and the lessons learned from those
projects and contained in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for MAP2 (Report No.
P 7497 AFR of December 20, 2001). In addition, the team drew upon field experience from Guinea and
from other African countries (particularly Cameroon, Sierra Leone, and Senegal) to ensure that the
program would be truly multi-sectoral and would focus heavily on the empowerment of communities in
the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The project will not specifically target refugees since there are other donors and organizations
already working with this group of people, such as the HCR and Medecins Sans FrontiAres. In addition,
the number of refugees in Guinea is on the decrease.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed-projects only)
Implementatlon  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health                           Guinea Health/Nutrition          S            S
Guinea Pop & Repro Health        S            S
Education                        Guinea Equity and School         S            S
Improvement
Guinea Education for All         S            S
Guinea Higher Education          S            S
Guinea Pre-Service Teacher Ed    S            S
Rural Development                PACV                             S            S
Other development agencies
AFRICARE                         Rural Youth Behavioral
Change
Canada                           STIVHIV/AIDS Prevention
Program
GTZ                              Peer Education Activities;
Refugee Activities (KAP);
Project in Moyenne Guinea
Medecins Sans Frontieres         Refugee Camp Programs
PSI                              Mining Company Employees;
Marketing study - condoms
PRISM                            Adolescents and Youth;
Socio-cultural study, Haute
Guinea
SONGES
SIDA-3                           Commercial Sex Workers
Plan International               Project in Guinee Forestiere
SIDALERTE                        Commercial Sex Workers
UNCDF                            Community Devp Project in 22
CRDs, Haute Guin6e
UNHCR                            Refugees
- 14 -



UNDP
UNICEF                           Anti-AIDS Clubs in Schools
Program
USAID/KfW                        Social Marketing of Condoms
Program
WHO                              Training Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design takes into account the lessons learned from international experience with
HIV/AIDS programs, and from the implementation of Bank-financed projects in Guinea.
Key lessons learned from the experience under MAPI include:
* Importance of political leadership and commitment. Experience shows that strong commitment from
the top political and religious leadership in the country is important for the success of HIV/AIDS
efforts. In recent months the President of the Republic of Guinea, the Government and the leaders of
the major religious groups have demonstrated strong support for the program.
* Need for a multi-sectoral approach. Experience in Guinea and in other countries has shown that
HIV/AIDS control activities start in the health sector, but need to be expanded to other sectors
rapidly.
* Need for community participation. Local communities have a key role to play in the prevention of
HIV/AIDS, the care of infected people and the support to affected groups. The spread of HIV/AIDS
results in a heavy burden to local communities. They need support to cope with the IH1V/AIDS
epidemic. They are able to express their requirements. Appropriate mechanisms must be put in
place to facilitate the provision of support.
*   MAP projects tended to lose momentum after Board approval. Funds available under a PHRD grant
are being used to sensitize representatives of public sector and civil society organizations, to
establish program coordination and implementation mechanisms and to train community
development agents.A PPF was requested by Govemment and approved by IDA in April 2002.
*   Importance of partnerships: some MAPs have been prepared very fast and other development
partners were not involved enough. In Guinea the MAP worked through the UNAIDS group which
was extended to other non-UN partners.
*   The tendency for some National AIDS Commission to become bureaucracies: this was taken into
account in Guinea by limiting the CNLS to six professionals, and by not creating decentralized Units.
* Importance of monitoring and evaluation. The design of the monitoring and evaluation system
should focus on who will use the indicators and how they will influence the decision-making process.
Baseline data are essential for proper monitoring.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
The Recipient's previous strategy to fight IIV/AIDS was revised using a multi-sectoral approach,
which the Recipient recognizes as the only viable approach. Some important initiatives have already
been taken both by various ministries and by development partners, civil society, NGOs, and within the
private sector. Government created the National Committee for the Fight against IV/AIDS in March
2002, and selected the Executive Secretary of its Secretariat in May 2002. Concrete evidence of
Recipient commitment will be manifested by the rate at which implementation will take place and by the
adequate monitoring of the situation at the highest government levels.
- 15-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region places the epidemic at the center of
the development agenda. Curtailing the spread of HIV is pivotal if human development and overall
development goals in the region and in countries such as Guinea are to be achieved. The Bank has
provided leadership to the donor community in assisting Guinea move from a state-controlled economy
to a market-based economy. It has helped Guinea focus on poverty issues and strategies for improving
the delivery of basic services to the population. Considerable progress has been made in past years. This
progress is not sustainable, however, if strong efforts backed by the international community are not
made to help Guinea implement its HIV/AIDS program. Donors have expressed interest in supporting
the program and indicated that Bank involvement was essential for its success.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economnic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS contained in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for
the Africa Region (MAP) Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20727 AFT, Annex 5), provides the
econornic justification for the project. As it indicates, HIV/AIDS undermines the three major
determinants of economic growth, namely physical, human, and social capital. Due to its long incubation
period (7-10 years), the impact of the IlV/AIDS epidemic is likely to be drawn over time with the rate of
growth of physical and human capital and the efficiency of social capital declining slowly in parallel with
the maturing of the HiV/AIDS epidemic. Over time, the behavior of GDP would reflect a similar gradual
downward reduction of the rate of growth (or increased rate of contraction), rather than a sudden fall in
GDP per capita.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ mnillion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A large number of resources will be directed at community interventions. The project will rely
on civil society organizations. The fiscal burden of the program is expected to be low. The recurrent
costs are limited. They consist mainly of costs related to the coordination of program implementation,
financial management and monitoring and evaluation. There will be efforts to track the
cost-effectiveness of the different interventions planned, as well as monitor the longer term economic
impact of the program through analysis of employment and income of HIV positive individuals and their
dependents.
Fiscal Impact:
With the large amount of resources directed at community and civil society interventions,
reliance on NGOs and CBOs and the private sector, the permanent recurrent costs of the program should
be manageable. Civil works (for example, works related to medical waste management), will be limited
and therefore not generate significant operating and maintenance costs. There will be, however, coverage
of operating expenses for the CNLS's Secretariat operations.
3. Technical:
The design of the program has taken into account lessons from experience in other African
countries. It includes a diversity of activities, which are mutually reinforcing. Effective care for STIs
will contribute to prevention, for instance. Messages will be tailored to their respective audiences.
- 16 -



Target groups have been identified. Line ministries will prepare their annual action plans in keeping
with national as well as international technical standards. Technical teams at the national and provincial
levels will receive adequate training and will ensure that proposals are technically sound and cost
effective. Most components will include training programs to ensure that staff involved in
implementation have the capacity to deliver services as expected. Quality will be ensured by hiring
certain specialized institutions which will work with line Ministries on specific areas such as STI, peer
youth education, sentinel sites. Delivery of ARV drugs will be integrated in the prevention of
mother-to-child transmission, but the drugs for other groups will only be bought and delivered when
certain criteria are met, namely, that the technical personnel be trained and equipment be available to
monitor how the patient is reacting to those drugs, that Government continue negotiating the prices of
ART with pharmaceutical companies, and that the system designed by Government to control access to
ART, as described in its August 2001 report entitled "Accelerer l'acces a la prise en charge des PVVS en
Republique de Guinee", be operational. The IDA financing will only buy drugs for around 150 PVVS.
4. Institutional:
Success will depend on the effective collaboration between the National Commission, line
ministries, NGOs, private sector and other partners at national, regional, and prefectoral levels. This will
require sound financial management and clear accountability as well as technically sound outreach
strategies. It is believed that the recruitment of a financial management agent and a clear understanding
of the role of policy coordination and monitoring by the National Commission under the chairmanship of
the Prime Minister will facilitate project implementation and timely resolution of problems which might
arise in execution of activities by multiple ministries and the civil society.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Secretariat of the National Commission will be responsible for overall project management
and coordination. Ministries, public agencies and civil society organizations will implement the program
with support from the national secretariat and local teams. The national, regional, prefectoral and local
HIV/AIDS committees will coordinate efforts in their respective areas of responsibilities. As a condition
of effectiveness, an implementation manual will be finalized to define the roles of each category of
participants and the procedures for preparing, approving, implementing and supervising proposals and
action plans. It will take into account lessons from experience in other countries, which are already in
the process of implementing a MAP program. Contracts will be signed for delivering certain specific
services such as training, participative diagnoses, or service delivery to certain target groups or areas.
4.2 Project management:
Project supervision will be regularly conducted by the Secretariat of the National Comrnission
which will organize annual program reviews involving all parties in the partnership against HIV/AIDS in
Guinea. These reviews will focus on progress made in achieving the PNLS objectives and on constraints
faced in its implementation. In addition, the CNLS will meet every three months to assess progress. The
CNLS Secretariat will maintain a monthly monitoring "tableau de bord" containing some of the
indicators mentioned in Annex 1 of the present document, as well as some more detailed indicators.
Supervision by the CNLS Secretariat will be mainly selective, based on the triggers highlighted by the
technical contract management system, which will identify outlier, or problem, projects which need
supervision. In addition, the FMIA will supervise the use of resources at the decentralized level.
Consolidated yearly financial and progress report will be prepared by the Secretariat and the financial
management firm for the National Commission's annual review meetings.World Bank implementation
support and supervision activities will be more intensive than customary, at least in the first two years.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
- 17 -



Guidelines for procurement under EBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, Section 3.15, "Community participation
in procurement." Consulting services will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and employment of consultants by World Bank borrowers (January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999). Procurement performance will be assessed on an annual basis, in the form of
random audits by an external agency. A procurement specialist was hired prior to negotiations. In order
to manage the large number of contracts, the Secretariat will hire a firm to set up a technical contract
monitoring system.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A key decision by the Government during appraisal was that financial management of this
project will be contracted out to a Financial Management Agency (FMA). While the CNLS will retain
the authority to approve all programs and project activities proposed by NGOs, Government departments
and other implementing entities. Once approved and corresponding contracts are signed, the FMA will
take over the key functions of disbursing funds to the implementing entities in a timely and systematic
fashion and establish adequate procedures to ensure that funds are utilized in accordance with the
programs and approved contracts and that the entities account for the use of funds on a regular basis.
FMA will also be responsible for periodic, internal audits of beneficiary entities utilizing project funds.
Other key tasks for the FMA will include, operations of the Special Accounts, timely submission of
withdrawal applications for replenishment of funds in SA, as well for direct payments to suppliers,
establishment of adequate accounting and internal procedures and incorporating these in a manual of
financial and accounting procedures, preparing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in
accordance with the IDA's guidelines in this regard, assessing the financial management capacity of civil
society organizations that require one per the Manual of Operations, monitoring the appropriate use of
project resources by recipients and link it the disbursement of funds, preparing six monthly financial
statements of all project expenditures and in close consultation with IDA, make the necessary
arrangements for external audits of these by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. The FMA
which is likely to be one of the international audit firms represented in Conakry, will be recruited via
competitive bidding procedures under TORs acceptable to IDA. Recruitment of the FMA with
adequately qualified financial staff to undertake the financial managementfunctions of the project will
be a condition of effectiveness. In addition, the core staff of CNLS will include a Finance Officer (FO)
who will work closely with FMA on all aspects of financial management of the project.
The CNLS Secretariat may conclude a memorandum of understanding with each ministry, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which shall specify, inter alia: (i) the activities to be
implemented at both the central and regional levels; and (ii) the modalities of transfers of funds by the
CNLS Secretariat to the relevant ministry for the financing of its action plan at the central and regional
levels, it being understood that, in order to facilitate the carrying out of activities at the regional level, the
CNLS Secretariat may directly transfer funds to the regional directorates of a ministry, through a monthly
advance mechanism, provided that such directorates furnish on time to CNLS adequate statements of
expenditures to justify expenses paid with such funds.
As soon as the FMA is recruited, Bank FMS will undertake further missions as necessary to
discuss the Bank's procedures for disbursements, requirements of FMRs and the Bank's overall
requirements for adequate financial management of project resources.
External Audits
As indicated above, the FMA will prepare, every six months, financial statements of all project
expenditures in the same format as the quarterly FMRs. These will be audited by independent external
- 18 -



firm of auditors and under audit TORs acceptable to IDA. In case the volume of operations in the initial
months does not justify a six-month audit, the first audit will be undertaken twelve months after
effectiveness. In any case, the project will employ independent auditors, before project effectiveness.
4.5 Disbursement Issues
The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period according to the categories
shown in Table C above. Government counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to cover the share
of recurrent costs not financed by IDA will be deposited by the Government in a Project Account
managed by the CNLS.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements for all expenditures would be made
against full documentation, except for items of expenditures for: (a) contracts for consulting finms in
an amount inferior to $100,000 equivalent, (b) contracts for individual consultants in an amount
inferior to $50,000 equivalent, (c) contracts for works and goods in an amount inferior to $50,000,
and (d) community sub-projects, training and operating costs, which would be claimed on the basis
of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained at
a suitable location at the CNLS, the region, and/or the CRD level and readily accessible for review
by periodic IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Special Account: To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, the CNLS would open two Special Accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Special Account A would finance all project expenditures
including those related to line ministries and to the regions, except for the expenditures related to the
"Community-based Initiatives" component, which would be financed from Special Account B. The
authorized allocation would be for US dollars 1 million for Special Account A and US dollars 1
million for Special Account B, and would cover about six months of eligible expenditures. Upon
grant effectiveness, IDA would deposit the amount of $500,000 into Special Account A and US
dollars $500,000 into Special Account B representing fifty percent of the authorized allocations.
The remaining balance would be made available when the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
grant account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of $4 million for Special Account A and $4 for
Special Account B. The Special Account would be used for all payments inferior to twenty percent
of the authorized allocation and replenishment applications would be submitted monthly. Further
deposits by IDA into the Special Accounts would be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents.
90-day advances: 90-day advances will be authorized for the main line Ministries i.e. Education,
Health, Youth, Social Affairs, Communication, and Agriculture. For all other line Ministries, CNLS
will effect directly all payments of beneficiaries. At the regional level, payments for training and
operating costs will also be made directly by CNLS.
Non-objection by IDA on annual work programs will be required. The CNLS Secretariat will
prepare at the end of every year, an assessment of the progress as well as the annual work program and
budget which translate into activities agreed-upon objectives. Work programs and budgets will be
validated during workshops where representatives of the different stakeholders will be discussing with
the Secretariat. Work programs and budgets will then be approved by the National Commission and
submitted to IDA. Work programs will include agreed upon annual objectives, against which progress
will be measured. If a Ministry, or entity, failed to implement at least 80% of the agreed-upon activities
19 -



and to reach at least 80% of its objectives, this could trigger no further financing for that entity till the
next year, if it then implemented all its activities and reached its objectives. Greater level of investments
could reward successful outcomes.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The program is not expected to have major environmental impacts. The handling and disposal of
HIV/AIDS-infected materials is the most significant issue. An assessment of current practices was
carried out by a consultant. A long term comprehensive national health waste management plan was
designed and accepted by Govemment. This plan will be partly financed by the project, other activities
are being financed by other donors, in particular the European Union, and activities not yet financed will
be submitted to donors. This project will mainly finance incineration equipment as well as waste
collection equipment, training on how to safely dispose of contaminated blood and other materials, and
information on the hazards of contamination. Health organizations benefiting from proceeds to the grant
will be required to demonstrate that they have safe methods of waste disposal and that the training
provided to their staff includes precautions in handling sensitive materials. This training program will
include instruction on the triage, transport and disposal of such waste material.As a condition of
effectiveness, the Recipient will adopt the waste management plan which was accepted by IDA (note that
it was already accepted by the Ministry of Health but the Association asked that another Ministry be
officially involved in this acceptance).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
See above.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 5/5/2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Directorate of Hospitals in the Ministry of Health is responsible for waste management of all
infrastructures. It has approved the Master Plan which will be financed by this project. The Master Plan
was made available to a consortium of NGOs.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Impact of the project on the environment and the recommendations of the EA will be monitored
during supervision missions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by raising the awareness of high-risk
groups (e.g., commercial sex workers, truckers, miners, youth, the military) and encouraging safe sex
behavior among the population at large. The civil society component of the project should have
beneficial effects in assisting and empowering individuals, communities, and institutions to deal more
effectively with the disease by (i) increasing community awareness and accountability surrounding
HIV/AIDS; (ii) addressing the critical needs of PLWHA in terms of psycho-social and medical support;
and (iii) addressing economic needs of HIV/AIDS affected/infected households.
-20 -



One key social issue that needs to be flagged is the difficulty in recruiting women as peer
trainers. Not only is it difficult to persuade women (via their father's permission) to be part of a team of
trainers, it is equally challenging to retain them since they get married at a relatively young age,
especially in the rural communities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The preparation process of the Guinea MAP was highly participatory with extensive
consultations with PLWHA, representatives of intemational and national NGOs, multilateral and
bilateral donors, and various other stakeholders. Both NGOs specializing in participatory planning and
H1V/AIDS were invited to prepare the Operational Manual for the Civil Society component. More
specifically PLWHA will participate through representation in HIV/AIDS committees at all levels. Rural
communities will develop their own priority HIV/AIDS action plans through a participatory diagnosis
undertaken with the assistance of a community mobilization agent. Communities will design their own
HIV/AIDS prevention activities based on a negative list as well as a nonrestrictive list of possible
HIV/AIDS activities which the community mobilization agent will talk about with them.Some NGOs,
associations, and the private sector will participate by implementing their own action plans targeting
specific groups. They will also be sub-contracted to carry out specific monitoring and evaluation studies,
including supervision of field activities and random control on the use of funds. The large bauxite mining
companies were consulted and will ask for cofinancing to help them implement an action plan to be put
forward by the Chamber of Mines.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations were involved in project design and are expected to
play an active role in project implementation. They will be provided with capacity building support and
will assist communities in the design, implementation, and monitoring of community-led initiatives.
NGOs are also likely to be involved in KAP surveys, training of trainers, and monitoring and evaluation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The participatory approach used in project preparation will be continued and expanded during
project implementation. In fact, all community HIV/AIDS action plans will be developed with the
assistance of a community facilitator and by using participatory planning methods. In addition, NGOs,
PLWHA, and private sector representatives will be members of H/V/ASDS commnittees and will be
systematically included in the steering and supervision of the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An NGO capacity assessment was conducted with PHRD grant resources. In addition, KAP
studies for the major high risk groups have been/will be carried out. These reports will provide a
baseline for the Guinea MAP. Technical reviews will be conducted under contractual arrangements to
assess NGO and CBO performance and take corrective action. Since the MAP will use the PACV as a
channel to fund activities in the rural areas, H[V/AIDS situation analysis and social development
indicators have been added to the TORs of the NGOs who carry put social mobilization in the rural
communities for PACV now.
Indicators of beneficiaries' satisfaction will be regularly monitored during project
implementation. Moreover, technical reviews will be conducted under contractual arrangements with
selected private sector firms to assess NGO and CBO performance and take corrective action. Finally, an
NGO capacity assessment was undertaken during preparation, with PHRD grant resources. This report
- 21 -



provides a baseline for the MAP. Thereafter, the roster of NGOs which was set up at preparation time
will be regularly updated and new NGOs might be included, turning this management tool into a data
base for monitoring of NGO capacity.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy    -                    _         Applicabil_ty
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes CD No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     Y        No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    ( Yes *_ No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9 )Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        (9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             9 Yes w No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      ( Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A medical waste management plan has been prepared in compliance with OP 4.01.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the program will depend on the degree to which the strategy and activities
become fully owned by the various partners at national, regional, prefectoral, and local levels. It will
hinge on improved capacity at all levels to develop and implement action plans and proposals that are
effective in changing behaviors and providing care and support to affected groups.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk    .              Risk-Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continued political support by ministers   M         Organize workshops to share experiences,
and religious groups not forthcoming                 encourage innovation and stimulate interest.
Contracted agency(ies) unable to provide   M         CNLS to maintain good monitoring and suggest
the relevant service.                                needed changes
CNLS personnel lacks full understanding    M         Review M&E activities during each SPN
of M&E aspects of its mandate                        mission and ensure any necessary TRG.
Health services are not available and      M         Continue sector support
improving
From Components to Outputs
Capacity of Ministry of Rural              H         Review implementation arrangements regularly
Development to respond to NGOs and
CBOs is slow
Capacity of NGOs and local associations    S         Intensify local training
- 22 -



does not improve
CNLS Secretariat is not rapid and does     S         Review procedures in light of experience and
not solve problems.                                  modify if necessary
Transfer of funds to local organizations is  S      Do random checks during each SPN mission at
not smooth nor efficient                            LOCAL level to ensure arrival of funds
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The conditions of effectiveness are:
a) The Recipient has established an adequate financial management system for the Project, satisfactory to
the Association, including entering into a Financial Management Services Agreement with a financial
management services agency under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the purposes
of assisting the Recipient in the financial management of the project;
b) The Recipient has adopted the Project Operations Manual, which will include the first calendar year
Project Implementation Plan, a final Administrative/Financial Management/Procurement section with the
first year's procurement plan, and a Technical section, all satisfactory to IDA.
c) The Recipient has deposited in the project's account 300,000,000 FGN.
d) The Recipient has employed the independent auditors.
e) The Recipient has adopted the waste management plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The condition for financing an Annual Project Work Program submitted by the CNLS, is to have
obtained IDA's non-objection.
Dated Covenants (as written in Schedule 4 of the Grant Agreement):
a) The Recipient shall, no later than March 13, 2003, adopt training modules for training of trainers
program for the First Project Year, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
b) The Recipient shall, by March 13, 2003, develop and establish a computerized contract tracking and
monitoring system;
c) The Recipient shall carry out data collection surveys during the first year of the project, prior to the
mid-term review and at the completion of the Project.
- 23 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
a 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
^,nia~arek                      Alexandre V. A rantes             Mamadou Dia
eam L ader                       Sector Manager                   Country Director
-24-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
-'-        ,,t_ -- ,  -9* '- .F .-~-'.  Key Performance  ' - Data Collectlon Strategy .  - ;
Hierarchiy of Objectives  -.    -Indicato'r8       . :9rCriticalAssumptionss
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Mitigate socioeconomic     Human Development         UTNDP annual report       Political commitment to
impact of HIV/AIDS within  indicators, including poverty  Epidemiological reports ad  effectively address the
framework of poverty       profiles                  surveys                   HIV/AIDS epidernic, and
reduction strategy                                                             sufficient financing of the
national HTV/AIDS campaign
PRSP implementation       An effective and
progress reports          well-coordinated multi-sector
program, fully involving the
public and private sectors,
NGOs, civil society, and
donors.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Limiting and reversing the  - At least 55% of high risk  KAP studies            Continued political support by
trend of the epidemic by   population (youth, army, sex                         ministers and religious groups
preventing new infections  workers, truck drivers, miners)
used a condom in their last
sexual encounter.
- at least 50% of people who  Baseline is the 1999 DHS
are aware of AIDS have used a which showed 27% for men
condom with a partner other  and 18% for women.
than their regular partner in
the last 12 months
- Keep the HIV prevalence  Data from sentinel sites, and
armong 15 to 24 year old  sero-prevalence surveys in
urban pregnant women below  2002 and in 2006
5% by 2006.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Support to Commrunity
based initiatives
A social support system is  - Increase by at least 1,500 the  Surveys           Contracted agency(ies) able to
developed in which CCC    number of orphans who attend                          provide the relevant service.
activities are strengthened in  school regularly as of 2004.
the communities for all groups
affected by HIV/AIDS
(orphans, PLWHA, high risk
groups)
- Decrease by at least 20% the Baseline is the 1999 DHS;
% of women and men who     KAP Surveys
don't know any mean to     CNLS progress reports
- 25 -



prevent transmission of the
HIV or who have erroneous
knowledge of it from its 1999
level of 30%.
- 100% of truck stops (total of CNLS Progress Reports
10 in country) offer an
HIV/AIDS prevention
program to drivers
Support to Sectors
Sectors have developed     -100% of ministries and 2  CNLS progress reports    Capacity of CNLS to
customized AIDS plans and  main Unions have HIV/AIDS                            coordinate
implemented them           work plans by end 2003.
- 80% of 303 CRDs are     idem                       Smooth financial flow
implementing 80% of their
annual HIV/AIDS plans by                             Good monitoring data
2007.
- 100% of blood units in   CNLS Progress Reports     Health services are available
hospitals are regularly and                          and improving
adequately screened by 2005
-100% of health personnel  Analysis of MOH Reports
involved with SlTs and
opportunistic infections fully
trained by 2006.
-70% of PLWAs benefit from  Analysis of MOH Reports
treatment of STIs and 70% of
those with TB treated by 2006.
- All national and regional
hospitals have facilities to  Surveys
dispose of hospital waste and
use them regularly
- 85% of youth between 15-24 Surveys
years have knowledge of
symptoms for STDs and of
ways to prevent HIV/AIDS
Project Coordination (M&E)
Coordination and evaluation
mechanisis are in place and  Data for outcome and impact CNLS Progress reports and  Good quality of CNLS
operate satisfactorily      dicators are collected   surveys                    personnel with full
regularly from all line                              understanding of M&E aspects
rninistries, from regions, from                      of its mandate
NGOs and community projects.
Capacity Building
he effective participation of  90% of all sale points didn't  Report from social marketing
NGOs is strengthened, and the have lack of condoms in last  program
capacity of NGOs and private month by 2004 and thereafter.
and public sector to improve
coverage and quality of services
s reinforced.
-5 new private service delivery  NLS Progress Reports  Capacity of contracted agencies
-26 -



points receive yearly quality
logo each year.
- 250 traditional healers have  CNLS Progress Reports  Capacity of CNLS
been trained in HIV/AIDS
prevention and counseling by
2006
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                          Outputs)
Support to conmunity-based US$10.0 million           Project data               Strong government and
initiatives                                                                    religious groups comnmitment
to program continues
Support to Sectors        US$5.94 million*           Project data              Capacity of MOH to respond
to NGOs and CBOs
Capacity building         US$1.66 million            Project data              Drug supply system works in a
cost effective way
Project Management and    US$ 2.58 million           Project data               Capacity of NGOs and local
Administration                                                                  associations improves
(including contingencies)                            Transfer of funds to local
organizations is smooth and
efficient
CNLS Secretariat is efficient,
rapid and solves problems.
-27-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
The proposed project will finance the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities including prevention,
care, support, and impact mitigation. A US$20 million, 5 year project is contemplated. It will have four
components: (1) Support to community-based initiatives; (2) Support to sectors; (3) Capacity building;
and (4) Project coordination. These activities will build on existing successful activities, and will take
into account the existing level of capacity at each administrative structure.
The project will concentrate the majority of its activities in two of the most affected Regions
during the first year, namely in Conakry and the Region ForestiMre. The expansion thereafter will follow
the MOH expansion of VCT and STI services.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$10.00 million
Support to community-based initiatives
1.    The main objective of this component is to empower communities to address H[V/AIDS
prevention, care, mitigation, and support. Grant resources will be provided to support a broad range of
community, civil society and private sector initiatives. The notion of community is very broad. It can be
any small group of less than 10,000 people who form an association, including different categories, such
as youth groups, groups of prostitutes, of miners, of orphans, of villagers, of PLWAs; or it can be a
larger group of 10,000 people or more, encompassing populations from across communities, such as
large workers unions, large mining companies. This component will provide the resources for a wide
spectrum of preventive and care-giving activities at the local level. At this time, ART, with its
consequent and difficult management, is not expected to be undertaken at the local level. For a
community to be eligible for financing by the MAP, it will have to meet some criteria such as (a) having
designed its iHIV/AIDS prevention plan based on a participatory approach; (b) cofinancing those
activities for at least 10%, in cash or kind (more if the community is a "for profit" private sector); (c) the
activities cannot be those of the negative list as it appears in the Operational Manual.
2.     Since HIVIAIDS is not a subject about which many communities have strong felt needs, the
MAP will finance awareness raising to stimulate demand through NGOs who will work with the
communities and help them in their participatory diagnosis. This component will build upon the
instruments developed in the Health Project's (PPSG) Social Fund component (FAP), and the
participatory approach used by the PACV project, both financed by IDA. Communities will be asked to
set up a revolving fund in order to sustain their efforts.
3.     There are two main types of NGOs: those that will help local communities carry out their
participatory diagnosis, and those that are specialized and will be hired to provide certain services. The
latter type is considered under the "Capacity Building" component. For both types of NGOs, the ones
which will be contracted will be those which are part of the register set up by the CNLS. This is an open
register which identifies the capacities and specialty of NGOs and was set up during the NGO assessment
undertaken during project preparation. This roster will be updated with new NGOs who want to be part
of it, and an assessment of the capacity of that NGO will be carried out at that time. No contract with a
local NGO will be more than 9 million FGN (US$4,500) at a time. This amount may be revised at the
time of the Mid-Term Review based on a performance review.
4.     With support from NGOs specialized in the participatory process, each local community will
identify its activities and prepare and submit an action plan to its governing CRD or urban commune,
- 28 -



which will judge the pertinence and content of the proposed activities using a checklist found in the
operational manual. Among other things, the checklist will ensure that proposed activities are not part of
the negative list of the project. It will also ensure that the proposed action plans result from a
participatory diagnosis process, fit into the CRD (or the urban commune) overall strategy for fighting
HIV/AIDS and that benefiting communities are not receiving funding from other sources for the same
activities. Moreover, it will ensure that the action plans follow the main axes of activities supported by
the project. After evaluation and approval of the action plans submitted by local communities, the CRD
or urban commune will submit a package of action plans to the project for financing. The project will
sign a financing agreement with, and deposit the grant amount into the treasury of the CRD/urban
commune. The CRD/urban commune in turn will sign an implementation agreement with, and disburse
the grant to benefiting communities. In both cases, the disbursement procedures will be detailed in the
financial manual of the project. The CRD will supervise implementation of the action plans, along with
the District and the Regional MAP Coordinators, and provide progress reports to the CNLS on a timely
basis. One community can receive several such grants if it has successfully completed the previous ones.
An evaluation will be carried out at the end of year 1 on a sample of communities to assess the impact
and the extent to which the objectives were met, and if the amount of the grant limit should be revised.
Coverage will start in the communities already covered by the PACV, and will continue in communities
covered by PACV-like projects financed by other donors, to reach all 303 rural communities and all 38
urban communes by the year 2007. The size of a grant for most community-based activities is expected to
be small, not exceeding US$1,000 for a community of 10,000 people. One community can receive
several such grants if it has successfully completed the previous ones. However, larger organizations will
receive more funding and will be awarded multi-year commitments. Quality will be checked by the
Ministry of Rural Development which will be helped in this task by specialized institutions such as
qualified NGOs.
5.     The IDA Grant will finance the following, among other activities, during the five years of project
implementation:
*   training of PACV and other projects' rural development workers;
*   pilot activities;
*   contracts for participative diagnosis for AIDS in CRDs
*   contracts for participate diagnosis for AIDS in urban communes;
*   training of NGOs on sex education by peers;
*   training of NGOs on social mobilization for AIDS;
*   training of NGOs on advocacy and social communication;
*   training of NGOs on counselling;
*   training of NGOs on project management and monitoring;
*   contract with the Chamber of Mines for HIV/AIDS activities with its members;
*   contract for specialized NGOs;
*   contract with traditional healers associations;
*   contracts with the largest two workers unions and with truck drivers union (activities centered around
the major truck stops: Coyah; Tamagaly; Luna Bar, Mamou; Mardla, Faranah; Tokounou; Bola;
N'Zerekore ville; Sinko; Kolaboundji; Labe ville; Boffa; Lola; Kankan ville; Dabola ville;
Kissidougou.
*   contracts with the private health sector;
*   agreements to finance activities with urban communes;
*   agreements to finance activities with rural communes.
-29 -



Project Component 2 - US$5.94 million
Support to the public sector
This component will improve the capacity of all line ministries -- both central and regional -- to
respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizing prevention and care. HIV/AIDS related activities will
be integrated into the ongoing operations, based on revised ministerial policies coupled with specific
AIDS-related activities. The plans will not only provide ministerial staff and their dependents with
HIV/AIDS and STI education, training, and care-related support, but also develop AIDS-related activities
in every realm of their mandate through which information on effective HIV/AIDS and STI prevention
and ways to access such prevention and care will be made available to their constituencies
(parent-teachers associations for the Ministry of Education, farmers' associations for the Ministry of
Rural Development, orphan support for the Ministry of Social Affairs). Local ministries have HIV/AIDS
focal persons designated to design and coordinate the implementation of their action plans.
Yearly contracts or agreement will be signed between each ministry and the CNLS, which will
include each ministry's regional plans with their own lists of activities and budgets. For an action plan to
be financed by the MAP it will need to include all its H1V/AIDS/STI prevention and care activities, as
well as the different sources of financing.
There are 22 ministries. At appraisal already 12 of those provided an action plan.The CNLS will
provide help to other interested ministries in developing their action plan. Each action plan will be
annual. At the end of the year, a review will be undertaken and those entities which were able to
implement their action plan at 80% or more, will see their financing continued for another annual action
plan, the others will need to complete their action plan before another one is financed.
The Ministry of Health will receive the most financing because a strong health system is a
foundation for success in the fight against HIV/AIDS. This ministry plays a pivotal role in many
preventive activities and it also carries special responsibilities for treatment and care of AIDS, STI and
other opportunistic infections, including tuberculosis.
The Health Sector Response sub-component will provide the resources to the health sector to
build on and complement the work done by the MOPH under the Reproductive Health Project, as well as
other reproductive and communicable disease activities currently performed by or to be financed by the
MOPH and its health sector partners. Under the MAP the MOPH will assist other line ministries.
MOPH will determine which aspects, where, when and how quickly it can implement and scale up its
HIV/AIDS, Sn, and TB services in the context of its Health Sector Action Plan, with a view to a more
aggressive effort against HIV/AIDS, and enhance its reproductive health.
The health sub-component activities will be geared to: (i) improving performance in the
national blood transfusion center; (ii) scaling-up the national blood screening and supply program; (iii)
increasing the number of health centers using the syndromic approach for diagnostic and case
management of sexually transmitted infections (STIs); (iv) scaling-up the national sentinel surveillance
system and voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) protocols as well as carrying out VCT activities and
follow-up; (v) strengthening the national and other referral hospitals for dealing with HIV/AIDS, STI,
and other opportunistic infections including TB; (vi) procuring condoms beyond those provided by
OSFAM/PSI, supporting a social marketing program, and playing a significant role in the distribution of
condoms; (vii) scaling up activities geared to potentially high risk/high transmitter groups in
collaboration with other sector partners; (viii) establishing at the primary level a care (and possibly
-30 -



treatment) program for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; (ix) improving services to prevent
mother-to-child-transmission (PMTCT), including counseling, maternal support, and drug therapy in
tandem with VCT, and care for HIV positive pregnant women and children.
The stated policy goal of Guinea is that the national blood supply be controlled and safe. Donor
mobilization, the construction and equipment of a new center, and the development of a plan for national
blood transfusion services will be financed by the European Union.
Health workers require specialized training in both the handling of hazardous materials
connected with HIV/AIDS and in the use of the particular medical supplies that prevent STI and H[V
transmission. To promote testing of patients and to provide caring support for PLWHA, health workers
need to be confident of their own personal safety. For this, norms and standards for hazardous waste
disposal appropriate to Guinea are being developed, and training of health personnel will be carried out.
Incinerators as well as burial of medical waste will be bought/built in selected health centers for proper
disposal.
IDA will support the PMTCT program. When combined with voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT), PMTCT can be dramatically reduced through short, inexpensive treatment plans of pregnant
women and newborns. Guinea will volunteer to be part of a pilot program to receive Nevirapine for five
years free of charge under a program run by the Boehringer-Ingelheim firm. An expanded program will
then be pursued with IDA financing under WHO/UNAIDS protocol. Complementary staff training,
facilities, and equipment will be financed by IDA. The establishment of VCT sites at antenatal (ANC)
centers will reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS and STI at pregnancy, both in terms of primary prevention
of infection and care of the pregnant woman and her child.
Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART), on the other hand, must be considered separately. While such
therapy has the potential of prolonging, improving, and saving lives, its financing on a large scale in
Guinea at this time is not judicious, except in a pilot effort for 150 patients as of January 2004, after the
conditions for buying ARV drugs are in place. For this, technical personnel must be trained and
equipment must be available to monitor how the patient is reacting to ARV drugs; Government must
continue to negotiate the prices of ARVs with pharmaceutical companies; the system designed by
Government to control access to ART, as described in its August 2001 report entitled "Accelerer l'acces
a la prise en charge des PVVH en Republique de Guinee," must be operational. Although drug prices
have fallen, serious challenges of sensitivity, toxicity, resistance, sustainability, access, ethics, and equity
must also be addressed. At present, Guinea has just one health system infrastructure -in Conakry --
capable of delivering such drugs with the necessary long-term patient management. Any program
dealing with ART must be developed with the participation of PLWHA and must include ethical and
equitable guidelines for deciding who is to benefit in the initial stages. The project would finance generic
drugs only. At the project's mid-term review, the number of patients to benefit from ART will be
re-evaluated, if necessary.
ART will be supplied through the UNIPAC unless direct purchase prices with pharmaceutical
companies in Guinea become cheaper, in which case direct buying will be allowed.
Guinea may continue to buy drugs with funds other than IDA's from others Pharmaceuticals
companies like Merck, Glaxowellcome or others, for those who started already on those molecules and
who cannot be changed. Those companies already have an agreement with the MOH to provide drugs for
patient who are treated now.
IDA support for ART will therefore adhere to the technical conditions established by the relevant
- 31 -



technical agencies. WHO, UNAIDS, and the International AIDS Society have developed the following
conditions as essential for the introduction of Anti-Retroviral Therapy in resource-poor settings:
*   Assured access to voluntary HIV counseling and testing, and institutional follow-up and
counseling services for ART to ensure continued psychological support and to enhance
adherence to treatment;
* Capacity to recognize and appropriately manage common HIV-related illnesses and opportunistic
infections;
* Reliable laboratory monitoring services including routine hematological and biochemical tests
for the detection of drug toxicity as well as access to facilities for monitoring the immunologic
and virologic parameters of HIV infection;
*   Assurance of an adequate supply of quality drugs, including drugs for the treatment of
opportunistic infections and other HIV-related illnesses;
*   Identification of sufficient resources to pay for treatments on a long term basis;
*   Information and training on safe and effective use of anti-retroviral drugs for health professionals
in a position to prescribe therapy; and
*   Establishment of reliable regulatory mechanisms against misuse and misappropriation of
anti-retroviral drugs.
The health-sector response component will be managed by a unit of MOH called "Programme
National de Prise en Charge Sanitaire" ( PNPCS), which will prepare and subrmit to CNLS a detailed
annual work plan with specific targets. CNLS will provide necessary support, including technical
assistance, to strengthen the management capacity of PNPCS.
The CNLS will set up a project monitoring and evaluation system to assess the benefits of the
project to beneficiaries through supervision, surveillance, and surveys. The first type of monitoring will
be through periodic progress reports received from MOH. The second and third types will be based on
behavioral and biological survey(s) of beneficiaries.
Surveillance will be coordinated by the health sector technical unit, with external technical
assistance from WHO, USAID or an UNAIDS partner. A contract with the GTZ and the University of
Montreal will provide quality control for the CNLS in terms of IST management and control,
surveillance, peer education. Behavioral surveillance will also be coordinated by the health sector
HIV/AIDS response group (in close collaboration with CNLS) and contracted to an academic or
consulting organization.
The IDA Grant will help finance the main following activities:
*   support to the MOH focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   the Reference Guides for STI diagnosis, for treatment and for Counselling and Testing;
*   training of health personnel in the public sector and some in the private sector on
STI/HIV/AIDS;
*   STI drugs;
*   reagents and other material needed for HIV testing;
*   lab equipment, drugs and other material needed to treat opportunistic infections
*   ARV drugs for PMTCT, and for treatment of 150 patients;
*   equipment for CD4 counts in two central hospitals and for viral load counting;
*   HIV sentinel sites;
*   quality control and decentralized supervision of the HIV/AIDS activities;
*   strengthening of central and regional level capacities for monitoring and evaluation.
-32 -



The Ministry of Education will also undertake more activities than most mninistries as it has to
develop and implement 1IV/AIDS modules for different grades. The IDA Grant will help finance the
main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   the Reference Guide for Peer Sexual Education, with technical assistance from GTZ;
*   support to 100 Anti-AIDS Clubs per year in schools;
*   training and support to peer educators;
*   support to students and teachers living with H1V/AIDS and their families;
*   support to the Radio Scolaire for advocacy.
The Ministry of Youth, Sports and Culture will especially concentrate on children who don't go
to school. The IDA Grant will help finance the main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   the Reference Guide for Social Mobilization of kids out of school;
*   communication material for social mobilization;
*   training of 150 peer educators/year, and support to their program for young girls in youth
clubs or in sports clubs;
*   training of regional personnel on youth mobilization;
*   social events for youth mobilization;
*   organization of regional and prefectoral days "Partners without AIDS" with youth
associations;
*   monitoring and coordination of those activities.
The Ministry of Communication: the IDA Grant will provide support for a) advocacy for the
multi-sectoral fight against AIIDS; b) radio information targeted to both vulnerable and high risk groups
in each region; and c) marketing for people to use the health and social services made available to them
to combat HIV/AIDS. Concretely, the IDA Grant will finance the main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   the Reference Guide for advocacy and social communication;
* training of journalists and other professional communicators;
*   local production of audiovisual advocacy kits in national languages;
*   equipment to complement what's missing for 3 rural radios;
*   support to produce magazines, round tables and short programs on radio, to cover the whole
country;
*   support to artists such as traditional griots, AIDS theater plays, AIDS circus acts.
The Ministry of Transports and Public Works will focus on transporters, a high risk group. The
IDA Grant will help finance the main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   training, by a central PPSG team, of training and peer educators in the Ministry and among
transporters;
*   peer education in public enterprises;
*   decentralized meetings for advocacy and mobilization in order to result in partnership
between transport industries and NGOs specialized on AIDS which could help them.
-33-



The Ministry of Mines, Geology and Environment will focus on miners, another high risk group.
The IDA support will focus on two aspects: a) direct support to the Ministry to work with the informal
gold and diamond miners; b) partial support to large private bauxite companies in order to help them
cover population living around their mines. The IDA Grant will finance the main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   training of trainers in social communication and in sexual education;
*   training of peer educators;
*   support to decentralized advocacy activities especially to promote the use of available
services to fight HIV/AIDS.
The Ministry of Social Affairs will focus on a social package for PLWHAs and their families,
especially for people who don't benefit from a social safety net. The IDA Grant will finance the main
following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   training of personnel in coordination positions;
*   training module on social assistance to PLWHAs and their families;
*   workshops on social communication at the prefectoral level;
*   training of 100 peer educators/year, with the technical assistance of GTZ;
*   organization of Caravans during the Day of the Woman;
*   support to social help for PLWHAs and orphans;
*   training of social workers to help PLWHAs and orphans.
The Ministry of Interior will focus on a) personnel of its decentralized and central units; b)
policemen. The IDA Grant will finance the main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   training of local "animators" for HIV/AIDS project design and for improved partnerships;
*   advocacy sessions for central and prefectoral personnel;
* advocacy sessions for elected members of Government;
*   production of written material for advocacy;
*   training of peer educators among policemen;
*   informal education sessions for policemen;
*   monitoring and coordination of activities.
The Ministry of Tourism will focus on sex workers. The IDA Grant will finance the main
following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   legal texts related to prostitution;
*   training of 20 trainers in social communication and advocacy;
*   training Ministry personnel;
*   advocacy sessions to be held with hotel owners.
The Presidency, will focus on the men in uniform working there. The IDA Grant will finance the
main following activities:
*   support to the Ministry's focal point for coordination and monitoring;
*   training of peer educators at the Presidency;
- 34 -



*   inforration sessions for personnel
*   support to their health center for testing, counselling, treatment of STIs and OI and HIV.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.66 million
Capacity Building
This component would strengthen Guinea's capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting:
(i) the update of the national HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan; (ii) the strengthening of public and
private institutions in HIV/AIDS prevention and care through technical assistance; (iii) the
implementation of the necessary cross- sectional training, communication, and large pooled procurement
needs of the "Support to Communities" and "Support to Sectors" components.
The National Strategy will need to be made known to all kinds of groups, feedback will need to be
integrated, and yearly plans of actions designed. This will involve hiring of people who can do the work,
and holding of meetings.
The strengthening of public and private institutions in HIV/AIDS prevention and care will mostly consist
in contracts to private entities who can expand rapidly HIV/AIDS prevention or care services to regions
not yet covered. A few study tours to other countries with successful HIV/AlDS prevention or care
programs will be provided to public as well as private entities.
Procurement needs in terms of goods, drugs, condoms will be all assessed together in order to group
purchases as much as possible. Those purchases will be done by UNICEF and UNDP to UNIPAC and
IAPSO. Communication needs will mainly consist in contracting media and publishers. Drugs and
condoms will be distributed via the National Immunization Program, which already does that.
The Secretariat will contract out the evaluation of the project, which involves a base-line as well as a
mid-term and end of project survey. It will also contract specific operational research as need arises.
Technical assistance by some specialized NGOs already working in Guinea and whose services are
satisfactory, will permit a certain quality control, a rapid expansion of some activities, and capacity
building. This professionalization of the fight against AIDS is important for its sustainability. It's
anticipated that five such contracts will be signed on a sole-source basis: with GTZ, University of
Montreal, and AGBEF.
The contract with GTZ will include the main following activities:
Working with the MOH to:
*   support laboratories for HIV/AIDS;
*   support sentinel surveillance for HIV/AIDS;
*   give technical assistance on the Reference Guides for Counselling for Testing and for
Treatment of pediatric cases of HIV/AIDS;
*   support to develop a training curriculum for psychological support;
*   give technical assistance to design quality control protocols for counselling, psychological
support, testing, care of pediatric cases;
*   give technical assistance for training of trainers in counselling, testing, PMTCT, care of
pediatric cases.
Working with the Ministry of Social Affairs to:
- 35 -



* give technical assistance to design the strategy of support to PLWHAs and their families,
including orphans, and the development of community health and social security mutuals;
* give technical assistance to design a National Guide for social workers for PLWHAs and
orphans;
* give technical assistance for training of trainers for social and psychological support to
PLWHAs and orphans.
Working in the Regions of Mamou, Labe and Faranah:
* strengthen the STI components of the public and private sectors;
*   support to the local branches of the ministries of Education, Interior, Agriculture and to local
NGOs;
* support to sexual education by peers;
* support to the introduction of ART according to the plan by the MOH.
The contract with University of Montreal/SIDA3 will include the main following activities:
Working with the MOH to give technical assistance for:
* revising and updating the national guide for STI control, and designing a national protocol
for quality control of STI management;
* training of trainers in STI management;
* training of trainers for quality control of STI management.
Working with the ministry of Education, Health, Youth and with other NGOs such as AGBEF to:
* give technical assistance to develop a Reference Guide for Sexual Education by Peers;
* give technical assistance for training of trainers on informal sexual education.
In the regions of Kindia, Mamou and Labe, not already covered by other donors:
* support to STI control in public and private health centers;
* training, monitoring supervision of health personnel;
*   support to the local response component for community initiatives;
* support to implementation of health services for sex workers and their clients in Labe.
The contract with AGBEF will include the main following activities:
Working with the Ministries of Education, Health, Youth and with GTZ and SIDA3:
* technical assistance to revise and validate the Reference Guide on Sexual Education by Peers
and the quality control protocol;
* technical assistance to train trainers in the ministries in sex education;
* technical assistance to define and implement the quality control for sex education in public
and private entities.
At the local level:
*   ensure the quality control of sex education put in place by the local response and the other
local actors;
- 36 -



*   participate in the studies on the impact of peer sexual education.
Project Component 4 - US$2.70 million
Project Coordination and facilitation
The project will be placed under the authority of the National Commission against H[V/AIDS
(CNLS) located in the Prime Minister's Office, which will be in charge of the National HIV/AIDS
Strategy and Plan of Action, and will define broad priorities of action, approve the key staff of the CNLS
Secretariat, and monitor both the performance of the project, as well as national performance in
responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The CNLS will include high level representatives of both the
public and non-public sectors, including NGOs, the private sector, and PLWHA.
The CNLS will be supported by a Secretariat. The Secretariat will be the administrative,
coordinating and facilitating mechanism for the project. The Secretariat will be involved in advocacy and
policy coordination, assist in the review of line ministries and other entities' annual plans, coordinate
training, oversee operational research and studies, provide monitoring and evaluation for the entire
program, convene meetings of the CNLS, and provide information to it. The Secretariat will organize the
annual review meetings of the national HIV/AIDS program with all interested donors, and will
subsequently help plan the next year's program.
Regional, prefectoral and sub-prefectoral committees will supervise implementation of action
plans and proposals at local levels. The CNLS will recruit four regional supervisors, one for each natural
region, who will work within and with existing decentralized units of the PACV to help with certain
administrative, and technical aspects, including monitoring and evaluation.
A firm will be contracted to monitor all the contracts. A financial and procurement management
agent will be hired to help on those aspects.
This component will provide support to facilitate the programming, coordination and
monitoring/evaluation of project operations, including support to the HIV/AIDS committees It will also
support the incremental cost of the Executive Secretariat, and the local units.
-37 -



INSTMTUTIONAL FRAMEWORK OF HIV/AIDS PROJECT
LOCAL RESPONSE                 SECTORAL RESPONSE
CNLS
(Tech. Sec.)
I
Workers                        I 
Unions of        //$
more than      /\/IV                
10,000 people              Service
Contracts
Pofessional    U 
Chambers of                                   \\
/                          ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~$\
CRLS/URD
Central
Ministries
NGOs\
CPLS
CRD H                          Regional
Ministerial
/ $                                 Departnents
Communities
-38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
-  ,. -  *-.,-.   _.LocaI~--~--~ .F_         TTotiff 
--;-=    r-' Project.CostBi y Component     '.    ,:US$million*   US    Iion, 2US $millio-o - 
Support to Community-based Initiatives                   10.00         0.00         10.00
Support to the Public Sector HIV/AIDS plans               2.44         2.92         5.36
Capacity Building                                         0.31         1.50          1.81
Project Coordination, Facilitation, and Monitoring        1.90         0.68          2.58
Total Baseline Cost                                      14.65         5.10         19.75
Physical Contingencies                                   0.02         0.00         0.02
Price Contingencies                                      0.24         0.29         0.53
Total Project Costs'             14.91         5.39        20.30
Total Financing Required             14.91         5.39         20.30
;;;~~s~~; ~ ar_.*            - C a                      FS                              $*nil io
Goods                                                       1.36          2.12         3.48
Works                                                       0.00          0.08         0.08
Services                                                    2.03          2.83         4.86
Training                                                    0.22          0.24         0.46
Grants for Sub-projects                                     9.90          0.00         9.90
PPF                                                        0.00           0.70         0.70
Operating Costs                                             0.29          0.00         0.29
Unallocated                                                 0.53          0.00         0.53
Total Project CostsI    14.33          5.97        20.30
Total Financing Required     14.33          5.97        20.30
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 22.3 (US$mn). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 0% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
The "Economic Analysis of liV/AIDS" contained in the Multi-Country HiV/AIDS Program for
the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP2) (APL) for the Africa Region (Report No.
P7497-AFR), provides the economic justification for the Guinea Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project. As it
indicates, HIV/AIDS undermines the three major determinants of economic growth, namely physical,
human, and social capital. Due to its long incubation period (7-10 years), the impact of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic is likely to be drawn over time with the rate of growth of physical and human capital and the
efficiency of social capital declining slowly in parallel with the maturing of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Over time, the behavior of GDP would reflect a similar gradual downward reduction of the rate of growth
(or increased rate of contraction), rather than a sudden fall in GDP per capita.
Available data indicate that Guinea represents the classic case of a country in which the rapid
spread of the virus is likely. Poverty, refugees, high levels of sexually transmitted infections and
opportunistic infections, inequality, gender inequality, are all part of the mosaic. Once HIV levels reach
around 5%, the infection spreads exponentially with the prevalence rate sometimes increasing by 50%
every year. Should the epidemic not be checked it will prevent an increasing share of the population
from participating in the economy, resulting in reduction in economic growth and an increase in poverty,
thereby accelerating the vicious cycle.
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
Years Ending
thousands
IMPLEMEN1J Al ION PFlRIOl
I Year I    Year 2  I Year 3  1 Year 4  1 Year 5   Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs      2942.0    3301.0    4349.0    5147.0   4256.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs          58.0      59.0     61.0      63.0      64.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs     3000.0    3360.0    4410.0    5210.0   4320.0       0.0      0.0
.Total Financing         3000.0    3360.0   4410.0    5210.0    4320.0      0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Govemrnment              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/BeneficIarIes    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-41 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
Procurement
General
1. A public procurement assessment in Guinea was first carried out in FY97. These activities were
followed up under the IDF grant for Public Procurement Reform. As a result of the Bank's support
for reforms in public procurement, a Procurement Code was adopted by the National Assembly in
June 1997. .It is considered that although the Procurement Code is comparatively acceptable, it still
has numerous articles that were left out in the 1997 amendments and required addressing. A new
CPAR was carried out in June 2002. In general, Guinea's Laws and regulations do not conflict with
IDA Guidelines and allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
national laws and provisions.
Use of the Bank's Guidelines
2. Goods and works financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with World Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and
Standard Evaluation Report would be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised
locally, would be carried out in accordance with the Republic of Guinea's procurement laws and
regulations, acceptable to IDA, provided that the principles of economy, efficiency, transparency,
and fair competition in line with the Bank Guidelines are respected. For NCB procedures, the
following conditions have to be met: (a) bids would be advertised in national newspapers with wide
circulation; (b) any bidder is given adequate response time (4 weeks) for preparation and submission
of bids; (c) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in the bidding documents and
applied without discrimination; (d) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (e)
eligible firms, including foreign firms, are not precluded from participation; (f) award would be made
to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with the criteria specified in the bidding documents; and
(g) bid evaluation reports would clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid. The
Standard Bidding Documents to be used for NCB would be reviewed by IDA before Grant
effectiveness.
3. Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in
September 1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank,
would be used for appointment of consultants and the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the
Selection of Consultants. Simplified contracts would be used for short-term assignments, that is,
those not exceeding 6 months, and carried out by firms or individual consultants. The government
will be briefed during the negotiations about the features of the new Consultant Guidelines, in
particular with regard to advertisement, bid opening, and steps of IDA reviews.
Essentially, communities would receive and manage small grants. Participation by communities in
procurement would be based on Simplified Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for
Community-Based Projects (February 1998).
-42 -



Advertising
4. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be prepared and issued in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB) as well as in the local newspapers to advertise for major consulting
assignments (above US$200,000 equivalent) and ICB. It would be updated annually as long as there
are ICB and major consulting assignments. Specific procurement notices for goods and works would
be advertised in the national press with wide distribution and internationally for ICB contracts.
Request for expression of interest in supplying the requested services would be issued before each
procurement, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Answers to these expressions would be used
to establish list of NGOs and service providers that would help communities. Sufficient time would
be allowed (minimum of 15 days) for preparing the short list. The related bidding documents, as
applicable, would not be released -- or the short list for consultant services would not be prepared -
until 8 weeks after the GPN had been published.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
5. A formal capacity assessment of the project management unit to verify whether it will be able to
handle the procurement work load during project implementation was carried out during the appraisal
mission. The summary of findings of the assessment report indicates "a high risk" for this project. It
outlines the main issues and recommendations and is in the project files. Based on these
recommendations, the following actions were discussed with the Borrower during the negotiations:
(i) the CNLS Secretariat procurement specialist will be sent for training on Bank procurement
procedures and the project will hire a short-term consultant with extensive Bank experience during
the first year; (iii) proper logistics support for proper filing of procurement documentation will be
sought from the Bank's Resident Mission during the first year.
6. For community sub-project, the communities, through their representatives committees, would
be responsible for the procurement process using the simplified procurement procedures as described
in the project Implementation Manuel. The adoption of the manual satisfactory to IDA is a condition
of effectiveness. Sub-projects from communities would indicate how procurement would be
organized.
7. In order to ensure that participating agencies (line ministries, provinces, communities) are familiar
with Bank's procurement guidelines in general and the procurement procedures in this project in
particular, the CNLS with the assistance of IDA, would provide a series of workshops, with the first
workshop organized at effectiveness. The subsequent workshops would be organized so as to
coincide with IDA supervision missions when the procurement specialist would conduct the
workshop as part of the supervision mission. The costs of these workshops would be included in the
project. These workshops would also act as forums to review procurement problems experienced
during project implementation with a view to identify measures that would address these problems.
The CNLS as well as annual external technical audits will also play a critical role in providing
assistance to line ministries and other participating agencies in carrying out their activities in
accordance with the project Implementation Manual.
Procurement Planning
8. Draft procurement plans have been prepared during appraisal for all procurement to be carried
out during the first year activities. The final plan will be submitted to IDA before effectiveness. The
exact mix of procurement will be determined on annual joint reviews between CNLS, lines
ministries, IDA and other partners, where the draft procurement plan for the following financial year
will be presented and agreed upon. The detailed procurement plan for subsequent years will be
-43 -



developed and submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant information
on goods, works, and consulting services under the project. As well as the timing of each milestone
in the procurement process. These plans will be reviewed by IDA supervision missions and by the
external audits. This being a multi-sector project, the respective annual plans would also need to be
closely coordinated with other operations in the various sectors such as PACV and PPSG. To that
end, one of the key responsibility of the focal point for fight against HIV/AIDS named in each of the
line ministry will be to ensure that risks of overlapping and coordinated efforts are minimized as
much as possible by keeping track of activities financed under ongoing IDA operations and or
sources of financing in the area of HIV/AIDS.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
9. The overall coordination of the program implementation would be carried out by the CNLS, with
each line ministry, and Regional Ministry Representative, CRD, and community responsible for
implementation of their relevant works programs or sub-projects. Procurement would be done at
three levels: national (CNLS, line ministries), regional (by the Directorate of each Ministry), and
local (CRD and community). The procurement arrangements are as described below.
10. At the national level, the CNLS would be responsible for procuring all major items under ICB
and NCB procedures and all consulting services. Procurement by line ministries and their regional
representatives would be limited to expenditures in support of their respective approved work
program at an estimated cost of less than US$ 22,000 per contract (IEC materials, workshops,
training and operations). Procurement at the CRD level will be limited to less that US$1,000 per year
per CRD through petty cash arrangements and will include small supplies, per diem and
transportation in support of training and sub-project selection. Procurement for community
sub-projects would be carried out by communities themselves and could include: minor repair works,
purchase of drugs and supplies in small quantities, care and support for AIDS patients and orphans,
AIDS prevention and care activities. Assessment and approval of community sub-projects would be
based on application received from respective committees and communities against a standard menu
of activities. A project Implementation Manual, including a description of sub-project procedures
satisfactory to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
Procurement Methods
11. Civil Works. With the exception of civil works for office rehabilitation and for medical waste
management, all other works are included in sub-projects. As part of the community sub-projects,
small works will mostly consist of works related to small community structures such as care centers,
youth facilities and community meeting facilities. These small works are estimated to cost less than
US$ 20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 80,000 equivalent. They may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion data, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The award will be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation and satisfies the technical quality standards for
the required work, provided they demonstrated they have the experience and resources to complete
the contract successfully.
12. Goods. The total cost of goods estimated at US$ 3.5 million equivalent for the project, not
including contracts for goods under the community sub-projects. The items would include: office,
- 44 -



audio-visual, and laboratory equipment, vehicles, pharmaceutical products (e. reagents), condoms,
diagnostic kits, pharmaceuticals for the clinical management of HIV/AIDS and opportunistic
infections, including TB; EEC materials, and other project related supplies. Procurement of goods
will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$ 100,000 equivalent or more per package
and will be procured through ICB. Preference for domestically manufactured goods will apply in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 up to an aggregate amount of 0.6 million
equivalent would be procured through national competitive bidding. The Bank's standard bidding
documents for the procurement of goods suitably modified will be submitted to IDA by the CNLS for
prior review. The approved document would form the basis of all national competitive bidding
procurement under this project.
(b) Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$ 20,000 equivalent per contract may be procured by
line ministries, Regional Ministry Representatives, and CRDs (as part of approved work program
agreements, and up to an aggregate of $1.8 million equivalent) through national shopping procedures.
In the case when a contract for goods cost the equivalent or more than US$ 20,000, the CNLS will
carry out such procurement on behalf of these entities. The CNLS may procure goods to cost less that
$ 25,000 through National shopping procedures and/or international shopping procedures (for those
goods to be procured under Parts A, B and D of the Project), and/or through the United Nations
Agencies (LAPSO, UNIPAC, UNFPA, WHO), all up to an aggregate of US$ 2.0 millions in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
(c)The procedures followed and the total aggregate amounts for all shopping methods under the
project, will be reviewed after six months of project implementation. Depending on performance and
the result of the review, the total aggregate amount may be adjusted where necessary. Standard
request forms and establishment of guidelines for conducting the shopping methods will be discussed
during the negotiations as per the Bank's memorandum of June 8, 2000 on " Guidance Procurement
note on Handling Procurement under shopping method" and will be included in the project
Implementation Manual.
(d) Procurement of reagents for H[V/AIDS considered as proprietary items costing less than US$
50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 0.12 million equivalent, may be procured
directly from manufacturers and authorized local distributors in view of the requirements of existing
laboratory/testing equipment in Guinea.
13. Grant for community sub-projects. The project will finance community sub-projects related to
HIV/AIDS activities (total is estimated at US$10.00 million equivalent), such as IEC-related
activities and materials, minor repairs or works, care and support for AIDS patients and orphans,
awareness campaigns, income generating activities for person living with HIV/AIDS and their
dependants. Funding these activities will be in form of grants.
14. Financing will depend on applications received from conmmunities and NGO and private
organizations against positive lists of activities. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods,
small works, and services to be procured under these activities due to their demand driven nature.
Therefore, the type of activities to be financed and their procurement details will depend on the needs
identified by the communities. Procurement of items for the implementation of sub-projects would be
carried out in accordance with simplified procurement procedures referred to in section 3.15 of the
guidelines and in accordance with the project Implementation Manual. The manual will contain a
special chapter describing the procedures and tools in accordance with those found in the Bank's
-45 -



Guidelines for simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based Investments
(February 1998). The CNLS will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines.
Ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent
technical audits.
15. Aggregate amounts are limitative, therefore, the CNLS will maintain a tracking system to ensure
that they are not exceeded the specified amounts, and that IDA is advised in a timely fashion when it
is likely to happen.
Consulting Services, Studies, and Training
16. The consultant services, studies and training financed by IDA would be for the following type of
activities: studies and surveys related to the monitoring and evaluation activities, trainers, community
developments specialists, public relations firms (IEC campaigns), specific HAIV/STI prevention
services, procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, audit, and accounting
specialists. The CNLS would ensure that the procurement notices are widely publicized to get
candidacies from consultants (firms and individuals). Based on agreed upon criteria, the CNLS will
maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short lists. The following
selection procedures would be used.
(a) Ouality -and -Cost-based selection: All consulting service contracts for firms would be awarded
through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. To ensure that priority is given to the
identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists for contract estimated to cost
at or less than US$100,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants (in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the consultant Guidelines), provided that a
sufficient number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available. However, if foreign
firms have expressed interest, they should not be excluded from consideration.
(b) Consultant's Oualification selection may be used for consulting services for research, and
targeted intervention for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to work
with vulnerable groups and proven track records would be recruited. The amount of the contract is
estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000. This method may also be used for the selection of training
institutions when training cost exceed US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract.
(c) Single Source Selection may be used for consulting assignments such as those provided by
NGOs or other organizations to assist province and community sub-projects costing less than US$
5,000 up to an aggregate of US$ 28,700 equivalent, and for beneficiary assessments in view of the
specific nature and requirements of the methodology. Technical assistance contracts with GTZ,
University of MontrealJSIDA3, and AGBEF can be done through single source up to a maximum
amount of US$300,000/firm/year and if unit costs are satisfactory to IDA. Those three firms have
been in operation in Guinea for several years with positive results, they also have the technical staff
which can provide the necessary quality control for rapid expansion of the firms' activities, also, they
can expand rapidly their activities if further financing is made available to them.
(d) Consultants for services meeting the requirements of section V of the consultants Guidelines will
be selected under the provisions for "Selection of Individual Consultants" method. Individual
Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of curriculum vitae against job description
requirements of those expressing interest in the assignment, or those having been identified directly
by the Borrower. Consultants hired under the project cannot be civil servants.
-46 -



17. Training, workshops, and conferences. The total cost of these activities is estimated at US$ 1.4
million equivalent for the project. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will
be carried out on the basis of annual approved programs that will identify the general framework of
training and similar activities for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the
number of participants, and cost estimates.
Prior Review
18. All ICB, the first three NCB contracts, and direct contracting for works and goods would be
subject to prior review as per paragraph 2 Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. All other contracts would be
subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consultant
contracts costing US$ 100,000 equivalent or more for firms would be subject to IDA prior review.
For consulting contracts costing less than US$ 100,000, but more than US$ 50,000, the Borrower
will notify the Bank of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial offers.
With respect to each contract for employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employments of the consultants shall be fumished to IDA for its prior review. Any amendment to
existing contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review threshold are
subject to IDA review. The first ten contracts with communities will be submitted to prior review by
IDA.
19. All terms of reference and all single selection of consultants would be subject to IDA prior
review. Other procurement subject to IDA review would include: annual training plans for, local and
overseas training and workshops, including terms of reference and estimated budgets. All out of
country training will be subject to IDA approval.
Post Review
20. Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national and community)
would be carried out for procurement under the prior review thresholds during IDA supervision
missions and through annual ex-post procurement audits. At minimum, 1 out of 10 contracts would
be managed by CNLS, and 1 out of 3 contracts managed by line ministries for goods will be subject
to post review. Post-review of in-country training will be conducted from time to time to review the
selection of institutions /courses contents/trainees and justifications thereof, and cost incurred.
Annual independent technical audits (ex-post procurement audits) would (a) verify that the
procurement and contracting procedure s and processes followed for the projects were in accordance
with the Grant Agreement (GA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price
competitiveness of each contract in the selected representative sample; (c) review and comments on
contract administration and managements issues as dealt with by the participating agencies; (d)
review capacity of participating agencies in handling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify
improvements in the procurement process in light of the any identified deficiencies. All thresholds
stated in this section will be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annul basis. Amendments may
be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurement implemented. Amendments
to the Grant Agreement (GA) may be proposed accordingly.
-47 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
~ r =:#.-  +             .   Y -  _  -  - Procurement Method  .  : -,.
_.'Expenditure Category -        - IB            NCB           Other.   'NB.F.;       Total (est
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.08         0.00        0.08
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.08)        (0.00)     (0.08)
2. Goods                            1.10            0.58          1.80         0.00        3.48
(1.10)          (0.58)       (1.80)        (0.00)     (3.48)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          5.57         0.00        5.57
Consultants and Training           (0.00)          (0.00)        (5.57)       (0.00)      (5.57)
4. Grants for subprojects           0.00            0.00          9.15         0.00        9.15
(0.00)          (0.00)       (9.15)        (0.00)     (9.15)
5. Operating costs                  0.00            0.00          0.31         0.00        0.31
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.31)        (0.00)      (0.31)
6. Unallocated                      0.00            0.00          1.71         0.00        1.71
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.71)       (0.00)      (1.71)
Total                             1.10           0.58          18.62         0.00       20.30
0(1.10)                    (0.58)        (18.62)       (0.00)     (20.30)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
PPF amount of $700,000, is included in Unallocated.
-48 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
-        - _ - - --  Contract.Value-. -: u                 -      Contracts Subject'to
Threshold-    .   - -, Procurmet                lor Review
Expenditure Category    '(USS thousands)    -            -' -Method  -  (US$ millions); ,
1. Works                 > or = US$20,000 eq.          NCB               = or > US$20,000
> US$20,000           Price quotation 3     The first 2 contracts
contractors
2. Goods                > or = US$100,000 eq.          ICB                     All
<US$100,000          NCB/UN Agencies       The first three contracts
< US$20,000         Price quotation from 3  The first two contracts
suppliers
<US$25,000           Direct Contracting            All
3. Services -- Consultant  > or = US$ 100,000         QCBS                     All
firm s                 _____________________           SSS                     A ll
4. Services - Auditors     <US$100,000 eq              LCS            = or > US$50,000 eq; first
2 contracts and all TOR
regardless of the cost
5. Services - Individuals  > or = US$50,000 eq.                                All
<US$50,000                 CQ             = or < US$50,000 eq and
all TORs regardless of cost
<US$10,000 and all IEC          SSS                     All
training
6. Miscellaneous:                                      SSS                first ten contracts
contracts with
communities
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 6.00 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-49 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The National Committee for the fight against AIDS, (CNLS) working under the Premier
Minister's Cabinet, will coordinate all activities related to the implementation of the project. It has
established a Secretariat to provide technical assistance to the CNLS and which will play the role of
Program Administration Unit. The Secretariat will be staffed by a project Coordinator, who has been
already appointed, a Financial Management Specialist, a Procurement and a Monitoring managers, as
well as a Local Response and a Sectoral Response managers.
The main objective of the CNLS Secretariat include: (i) to ensure that a sound financial
management system will be maintained including accounting, financial reporting and auditing system and
they can provide the Bank/Government with accurate and timely information regarding project resources
and expenditures; (ii) to support management in the deployment of resources with due regard to
economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the fight against HIV/AIDS and the subsequent relief to the
people of Guinea.
The CNLS Secretariat will also recruit a Financial Management Adviser (Agence de Gestion
Financiere) which will be in charge of all financial management aspects of the project. The mains
functions of this FMA are well drafted in the Annex 5 of the appraisal mission Aide M6moire. These
functions include the planning/budgeting, the procurement and monitoring, the accounting/reporting
system and the management of the two special accounts. The terms of references for the recruitment of
this FMA have also been prepared during the appraisal mission.
2. Audit Arrangements
The Government will recruit an independent auditor in line with project credit agreement.
Audited financial statements will be submitted to the bank within 6 months after the financial year end.
Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial statements the auditor must include a separate
paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditure withdrawn under SOE procedures.
Regarding the special account, the external auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the
agree of compliance with Bank procedures and the balance at the year end. Additionally, it will be
required to prepare a separate Management letter giving observations and comments and providing
recommendations of accounting records, system, control and compliance with financial covenants.
Communities should also be audited for their own purposes as part of the project reporting
systems. This audit may be a simple audit ex-post undertaken by the external auditor on a semester basis
and by the bank during the supervision missions.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement
Handbook. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the grant Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter. Disbursement would be made against standard IDA documentation
requirements. Govemment counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to cover the share of costs not
financed by IDA will be deposited by the Government in a Project Account managed by the CNLS
Secretariat.
The Financial Management System will use the traditional document-based method of
disbursements. Therefore, disbursement procedures as outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook
- 50 -



will be followed for all components and during the whole life of the project. Considering the nature of
the project and anticipated rapid disbursements, the bank will be flexible applying PMR requirements.
A. Use of statement of expenditures (SOE).
Disbursement for all expenditures would be made against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures for: (a) contracts for consulting firms in an amount inferior to $100,000 equivalent, (b)
contracts for individual consultants in an amount inferior to $50,000 equivalent, (c) contracts for works
and goods in an amount inferior to $50,000 and (d) community sub-projects, training and operating cost,
which would be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE).
All supporting documentation for SOE would be retained at a suitable location at the CNLS
Secretariat, and at the CRDs level and be readily accessible for review by periodic IDA supervision
missions and external auditors. Replenishment of funds from IDA to the special accounts "A and B" will
be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous advance, reflected in the consolidated
SOEs prepared by the Secretariat via the FMA.
B. Special accounts and funds Flows:
The Project management will pay close attention to the flow of funds especially in relation to the
number of tiers before the funds reach the end users/beneficiaries. Factors to be taken in to account
include the geographic coverage of the project, the location of the financial management entities and the
Guinean banking network. To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, the CNLS' Secretariat would open two special accounts "A and B" in US dollars in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The authorization allocated would be for $1.2 million for special account A and $500,000 for
special account B, this would cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon grant effectiveness,
IDA would deposit into each special account an amount representing fifty percent of the authorized
allocation.
Special account A (Fonds d'appui aux communautis)
This account would finance the expenditures related to the community based initiative
component; it will exclusively service component 1 of the project. The funding to the communities will
be based on approved project proposals. All community based activities will be handled through this
special account and paid for under a financing agreement. On approval, the communities will receive
payment under the financing agreement for eligible qualifying activities and will be required to report on
the use of the funds using agreed formats. Before funds are transferred to the communities an assessment
will be made of the existence of at least a basic accounting system and knowledgeable staff to record the
transactions and produce basic financial reports.
Special account B
This account would finance all project expenditures including those related to the line ministries
and to the regions. It will be used for components 2,3 and 4 of the project. The activities under these
components will be funded according to approved annual and quarterly work programs. Following
approval of the work program, 90-day advances will be provided to line Ministries and 30-day advances
to deconcentrated units for eligible qualifying activities in accordance with procedures. Replenishment
- 51 -



will be on a monthly basis after satisfactory submission of reconciliation to the CNLS. The reconciliation
will consist of a bank statement and the supporting documents for any expenditure.
The financial management system of the respective ministries will be assessed before the
effectiveness of the special accounts. The assessment will comprise: staffing, accounting system,
integrated computerized system and reporting system.
A negative list will be made available to the whole management of the project in order to better
follow up the use of funds for only project purposes.
90-days advances will be authorized for the main line Ministries, i.e Education, Health, Youth,
Social affairs, Communication, and Agriculture. For all other Ministries, CNLS will effect directly all
payments to beneficiaries. At the regional level, payments for training and operating cost will also be
made directly by CNLS.
For the community based initiatives component, the CRD will appraise yearly small scale
applications from the communities based on a simple checklist. Qualified proposals will receive funds
from the CRD. The CRD will receive funds on the basis of a financing agreement for subprojects based
on a yearly plan of action which includes all small scale applications from the communities. No
subproject can exceed US10,000$ equivalent per CRD at a time. This amount can be reviewed after one
year of project implementation. The subsequent installment under the financing agreement will be made
based on a certificate by a technical evaluator. The CRD will check the progress report from each
community, endorse the request for next payment, and pay. It will forward the infornation to the
Secretariat so it can be entered into the contract monitoring system.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Staffing
The recruitment of staff was begun upon appointment of the project coordinator, who is the
CNLS Executive Secretary. All terms of references for financial, procurement, and monitoring managers
were drafted promptly and submitted to IDA by negotiations. To assist the financial manager, suitably
qualified and experienced staff will be made available. Varying levels of staff training may be required in
financial, management, and govermment accounting, information systems and computer applications, and
procedures relating to the utilization of funds (special account, disbursement, special commitment,
procurement). On-the-job training will be provided.
Accounting System
The project will have a full financial management system at the central level which comprises a
computerized financial management system, using an integrated accounting package. An operation
manual also will be available.
At the local level, it will be important to keep simplicity as primary objective. Key principles
applied to the community accounting system will include the use of the local language, requiring that all
transactions be recorded in simple format, and requiring that supporting documents be retained.
Reporting system
The financial monitoring reports will cover financial progress, physical progress, and
-52 -



procurement information. At a minimum, financial reports will include a statement showing, for the
period and cumulatively, the sources and uses of funds and the uses of funds by expenditure type.
The physical progress report will include both narrative information and output indicators.
The procurement report will provide information on the procurement of goods, works, and
related services, the selection of consultants, and compliance with agreed procurement methods.
All these reports will be done in such a way as to enable the Project coordination to compare
expenditures against targets. The report system will be clearly linked to the funds-flow mechanism and
will be in a simplified format.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
- Exp"enditure Category      Arnount in1US$millilii      Financing Percentage   :
Works                                     0.08                     100% foreign
80% local
Goods -- Vehicles, Motorcycles, and       3.48                     100% foreign
Equipment, Drugs, Tests, and Reagents                               80% local
Training                                  0.48                        100%
Consultant Services                       5.09                        80%
Grants for subprojects--Community-        9.15               100% of amounts disbursed
based and Civil Society Organizations
(1.03 of which unallocated)
PPF                                       0.70
Operating Costs                           0.29                        90%
Unallocated                               1.03
Total Project Costs                       20.30
Total                                     20.30
- 53 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
Project Schedule     -            --             Planned                -   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     9
First Bank mission (identification)            01/05/2002                  01/05/2002
Appraisal mission departure                    05/02/2002                  06/21/2002
Negotiations                                   09/17/2002                  10/10/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/31/2002                  04/03/2003
Prepared by:
Tonia Marek, Public Health Specialist
Preparation assistance:
A Japanese PHRD grant for US$383,900 (TF026713) was received and used for project preparation
by the Bank to contract consulting services for: a Communication Plan, an NGO assessment, a Waste
Management Plan, a Mother-to-Child transmission Strategy, the Manuals of Operation, the integration
of Traditional Healers, a 100% condom strategy for target groups, an orphans strategy, a private
sector strategy, the design of a management training program.
A Project Preparation Facility for US$700,000 was approved in April for Govemment to start some
of the urgent activities outlined in several ministerial Sector plans.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name . . !-                 l-       . Speciality
Tonia Marek                      Task Team Leader, Public Health Specialist
Asha Ayoung                      Procurement Specialist
Anne-Marie Bodo                  Pharmaceuticals
Bella Diallo                     Financial management-- Flow of Funds
Oury Diallo                      Rural Development
Cherif Diallo                     Education, Health
Hassane Cisse                    Lawyer, LEGAF
Ousman Jah                       Co-Task Team Leader, Operations Officer
Myrina McCullough                Inventories and costing
Christy Hansen                   Tuberculosis, Private/Public Sector
Rima Al-Azar                     NGOs Assessment
Mohsen Farza                     Health, monitoring
Rodrigue Djahlin                 Community Development
Mamadou Sevede                   Procurement system
Aissatou Chipkaou                Program Assistant
Ren6e Desclaux                   Finance Officer (Disbursements, LOAAF)
Bachir Souhlal                   Advisor
Robert Hecht                     Peer Reviewer
Serigne Omar Fye                 ISDS, ASPEN
-54 -



Kamla Devi Pariadhaven            Program Assistant
IHisham Abdo Kahin                 Legal Consultant
- 55 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Plans Sectoriels de Janvier 2002
*   Plans Sectoriels de Mars 2002
*   Cadre Strategique National pour une Riposte Multisectorielle contre les IST/VIHISIDA, 2002-2006,
Mars
*   Plan dActions du PMS pour les Orphelins, Marie-France Adrien, Consultant
*   Planification Strategique de la Riposte, Analyse de la Reponse au VIHISIDA/lST, Janvier 2002
*   Planification Strategique de la Riposte, Analyse de la Situation du VIG/SIDA.SIT, Decembre 2001
*   Plan d'Urgence de Lutte Contre les IST/VIHISIDA, Aout 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Aide Memoire de la mission d'identification du 22 janvier 2002
*   Aide Memoire de la mission de pre-evaluation du 25 mars 2002
*   Aide Memoire de la mission d'evaluation du I mai 2002
C. Other
*   "Appui a la reponse locale au VIHISIDA, Approche multisectorielle integree au niveau prefectoral"
G7Z, Mai 2002.
*   "Rapport de la premiere enquete sur la qualite de la prise en charge des IST dans les regions de
Kindia, Mamou, et Labe", Universite de Montreal et PNLS, Fe'vrier 2002
*   "Enquete CAP sur les IST/SIDA dans les Zones Minieres de la Guinee" (ECAPMINES/2001),"
STAT-View Association, 2001.
* "Etude de Base Socio-Economique, CRD de Gberedou Baranama, Pre'fecture de Kankan,"
CENAFOD, Juillet 2001.
*   "Information-Education-Communication pour la Prevention et la Prise en Charge des MST aupres
de Filles Libres en Guine, " SIDA-2 Guinee, Avril 2001.
*   "Rapport d'activites de sensibilisation en matire de lutte contre les IST/SIDA...zones Basse Guinde
et en Moyenne Guinee" by Ministere de lAgriculture et e l'Elevage, mai 2001.
*   "Rapport d'activite's de de lutte contre les IST/SIDA...zones Transhumance a Boffa, Boki et Fria,"
Dr. M.B. Diallo, Minist&e de la Sante, mai 2001.
*   "La Sexual ite des Adolescents dans les Re'gions Administratives de Faranah, Kankan et
N'ZWrikor6, " PRISM, November 2000.
*   "Etude de Marchi sur Prudence Plus en Basse et Moyenne Guinee, " STAT-View Association,
September 2000.
*   "Etude sur la sante urbaine a Conakry", KIT (Royal Tropical Institute), for the Ministry of Health,
August 2000
*   "KAP Survey on STI and AIDS among refugees in Guinea, " G7Z 1999.
* "Etude Qualitative sur la Privention des MST/SIDA aupres des Filles Libres et des camionneurs a
Tamagaly et Mamou, " SIDALERTE, Octobre 1997.
* "Rapport de I 'Enque^te CAP aupr&s des Tenanciers et Filles Libres au Km 36, " SIDALERTE, June
1996
*   "Recensement Gengral de la Population... 1996, Caracteristiques de l 'Habitation, " FNUAP, Conakry
2000
*   "Recensement Gieniral de la Population ... 1996, Etat de la Population, " FNUAP, Conakry 2000
- 56 -



*   "Recensement General de la Population... 1996, Caracteristiques des Menages," FNUAP, Conakry
2000
*Including electronic files
-57 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
13-Jun-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                        disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA                       Cancel.   Undisb.     Ong   Frm Revd
P065128      2002 SAC IV                                       0 00     50.00                        0.00      0 37     8.98      0 00
P050046      2002 EDUCATION FOR ALL PROJECT                    0.00     70.00                        0.00     71 77     0.00      0.00
P049716      2000 CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVERY       0.00     19.00                        000      14.37     18.78     0.00
P001074      1999 URBANIII                                     0.00     18.00                        000      12.25      9.58     000
P041568      1999 POP&REPROO HEALTH                            0.00     11.30                        000       1.54     -3.01     000
P050732      1999 VILLAGE COMMUNITY SUPPORT PROGRAM            0.00     22 00                        0.00     14.24     -6.06     0 00
P001075      1997 THIRD WATER SUPPLY                           000      25.00                        0.00     38.69     13.02     1 77
P001087      1995 EQUITY AND SCHOOL IM                         0.00     42.50                        000       5.21     9.71      000
P001068      1993 AGR EXPORT PROMOTION                         000      20.80                        000       5.67      5.97     580
Total:      0.00     278.60                        0.00    164.10     56.98     7.57
GUINEA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval             Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
1988                   Aurifere                             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      00
1998                   SEF Agro                              0.12      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.12      0.00      0.00      0.00
1993/98                SGFH                                  0.00      0.00      0.40      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.40      0.00
Total Portfolio:              0.12      0.00       0.40      0.00       0.12      0.00      0.40      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan       Equity       Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Guinea     Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      7.4       659     2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   450       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     3.4       313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       2.4       2.6       1.9
Labor force (#)                                        ..      2.6       2.4      GNI                 .          Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (lateat year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  48
Urban population (% of total population)              30        34        32
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       44        47        59
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              98        92        77
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)             ..         ..       ..          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  49        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  76        38        38
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      51        78        96           -     Guinea
Male                                                65        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              37        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            ,,     2.8        3.5      3.1
Gross domestic investmentGDP                  ..     17.5      22.2     22.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..    30.9       21.4     25.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..     17.7      17.5     18.6
Gross national savings/GDP                           10.4      14.9      15.7                     I
Current account balance/GDP                   ..     -9.4      -7.2     -8.5      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      1.9       1.7       1.9             omes Investment
Total debtGDP                                 ..     87.9      99.4     108.5    savings
Total debt service/exports                  19.8     20.3      16.7      16.4
Present value of debtGOP                      ..      ..       68.2     76.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..      ..      315.7    293.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  ..      4.3     3.9        1.8      5.3            -     Guinea
GDP per capita                       ..      1.5      1.5      -0.8      2.8                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..      4.6     6.0        0.0      5.2
.~ ~ ~   ~
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GOP(%)
(% ol GDP)
Agnculture                                    ..    23.8       24.3     23.7
Industry                                      ..    33.3       37.9     38.8     1-
Manufacturing                                ..     4.6       4.2       4.1     s
Services                                      ..    42.9       37.8     39.7      o /
Private consumption                           ..    73.4       76.5     75.4     -*      5   g     97   Os    99   00
General govemment consumption                 ..     8.9        6.0      5.9
Imports ot goods and services                 ..    30.6      26.1      29.4                    G 0        GDP
(averageannualgrowth)1980-90  1990-00  1999  2000  Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..     4 3        5.5     -2.8    Is .
Industry                                             4.7        5.3      4.3     W-.
Manufacturing                                ..     4.1       6.5       7.0 0
Services                                     ..      3.6        2.9      3.4
Private consumption                          ..      3.5        1.7      3.6            Os 95a                9 9 
General govemment consumption                 ..     4.7        3.3      3.6    *5
Gross domestic investment                     ..     2.8        4.5      5.6                  Exports      -Imports
Imports of goods and services                ..      1.2      -0.5       9.0
Note: 2000 data are prellminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 59 -



Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                                   15
Consumer prices                             ..    23.3       4.6      6.8    1
Implicit GDP deflator                       ..    23.9       3.3     10.1
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                           o
Currentrevenue                              ..     15.8     10.9     11.1           ss    96    97    go   99    00
Current budget balance                      ..     3.4       1.8      1.7           -     GDP defator  -CPC
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..      ..      -5.4     -5.6
TRADE
(USS3$ millions)                          1980    1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         ..     817       646      695      o,
Other metals                               ..     447      295      299
Aluminum                                   ..     166       86      103      7.0
Manufactures                               ..
Total imports (ci.                                 723       582      555      soo 
Food                                       ..      12       82       87      250
Fuel and energy                             .     65        93       99
Capital goods                              ..      96      106      120        0
94  95   99   97   99  99   00
Export price index (19951000)                .     140        94       97
Import price Index (1995-100)               ..      92        88       96               *ErEots      Uimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    .     153       107      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            198     199       1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              553     829       759      808      0
Imports of goods andservlces               481     891       924      917
Resource balance                            72     -62      -165     -109      2
Net income                                 -95    -149       -84      -82     -4
Net current transfers                       -8     -53        -8      -10        I              l    i   i   i
Current account balance                    -32    -264      -257     -201
Financing Items (net)                       57     315       215      158
Changes In net reserves                    -25     -51        42       44     -0e
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)       0     116       273      212
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUSS)          19.0    660.2   1,343.6  1,709.6
EXTERNAL DEE3T and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                Compostlion ot 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,133   2,476     3,521    3,387
IBRD                                      55      28         0        0
IDA                                       32     392      1,014     982                G 335
F:30    -
Total debtservice                          109     169       128      132                                B 9ss2
IBRD                                       9      14         0        0
IDA                                        0       3        18.      18
Composition of net resource flows
Officlalgrants                            25      95       109      112
Officlalcreditors                          1     119        30        2       E:t295                     C113
Private creditors                         46     -19        -1        0
Foreign direct investment                 34      18        34      -33
PortfolioequLtY                            0       0         ..       .                              632
World Bank program
Commitments                               17     174        61        0     A - IBFD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             10      52        29       29     B - IoA  D - Otler multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       3      13        10       11     C-IMF                     G-SShout-temi
Net flows                                  7      39        19       18
Interest payments                          6       5         8        7
Net transfers                              1      35        11       11
Development Economics                                                                                        9/21/01
-60-



Additional Annex 11:SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS
GUINEA: MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)
The project will need intensive supervision, given its multi-sectoral and multi-agency nature,
fast-track preparation, and large span of activities. Moreover, some of the actors to be involved (i.e.
associations of PLWHA) have relatively limited experience with Bank operations.
Some of the skills required for supervision will be needed on a regular basis while others
will be required on an ad-hoc basis. Therefore, a core supervision team will be established, to be
complemented by other technical specialists, as agreed upon with the recipient. The core team would
carry out annually, on average, 2 three-week supervision missions, comprised of approximately 5 staff.
Other technical experts would provide support periodically, as required. During the first year, a heavier
supervision program would be expected, with 3 missions, tapering down over subsequent years.
On the other hand, as the project grows, more people will be involved, and the need for
continuous, intensive assistance will increase. During the first year of the project, the Bank
would explore the possibilities of recruiting a consultant(s) to provide technical backstopping,
possibly financed from a trust fund. This person(s) would be well placed to provide regular inputs
to Bank supervision missions and to troubleshoot at an early stage. The Bank's supervision task
would be facilitated by the recipient's Monitoring and Evaluation unit, which is being set up within the
National AIDS Commission, and by the continuous financial monitoring of the Project's Finance
Management Agent.
The core team would be comprised of the following experts from headquarters and from
the country office: (i) task team leader with experience in health projects, with particular focus on
HIV/AIDS operations; (ii) operation officer who would oversee day to day implementation of
project in country; (iii) rural development specialist for the day to day implementation of the local
response component (iv) financial management specialist who would review adherence to Bank
procedures with regard to fiduciary responsibilities; and (v) procurement/implementation specialist who
would be responsible for the procurement, implementation and institutional issues.
The core team would also include representatives from Guinea's development partners active in
the fight against HIV/AIDS. As begun during project preparation, partners from the at-large UNAIDS
group in Guinea would be invited to participate in supervision missions to ensure complementarity of
interventions, build strong partnerships, and facilitate a cross fertilization of experiences. During
preparation, UNAIDS and the French Cooperation participated in missions with IDA, while all other
at-large UNAIDS partners were involved in specific discussions and during the missions' regular
briefings and debriefings with the UNAIDS at-large group. UNAIDS has appointed an AIDS program
officer in Conakry who started to work in the summer of 2002, and who will contribute to the supervision
and facilitation of the HIV/AIDS program implementation.
The core team would visit each region at least once a year, either by themselves or
accompanied by other specialists. For the first year, a total of 34 staff weeks are planned, of which 16
headquarter staff weeks, 18 country office staff weeks to emphasize that the country office assumes
greater responsibility for the supervision of the project than headquarters.
The core team would be complemented with other technical experts in the following areas: (a)
sector specialists (e.g. rural development, education, transport, mining, energy, private sector) to review
- 61 -



progress in respective sector; (b) monitoring and evaluation; (c) public health specialist who would assist
with design and monitoring of interventions aimed at mitigating the health and socio-economnic impact of
the epidemic, for 9 staff weeks per year, which permiits three missions/year; (d) communications
specialist to review CCC interventions; (e) economists to assist in priority setting and in monitoring the
impact of the epidemic on households, and/or (f) social scientists to explore the social and aspects of the
disease. The team has proposed the following breakdown of staff weeks:
Supervision Planning
Staff                 Consultant Staff Weeks  Number of Bank      Estimated Total Budget
and travel for Year 1  Staff/Weeks for Year 1  for Year 1
Task Team Leader      3 trips               10
Resident Mission Health                     10
Resident Mission Rural                       8
Financial Sp.         1 trip                 2
Procurement Sp.       1 trip                 4
Consultant            9 SW + 3 trips         --
Total:                pround US$60,000      34 SW; around $73,000  $133,000
Expected yearly supervision missions:
- yearly end of year evaluation mission to take stock of what has been accomplished, and deciding on
next year's action plan. Those missions should be led by Government and held jointly with other donors.
- about six months after the end of year evaluation mission, a regular supervision mission.
A Mid-Term Review will be carried out about 30 months after effectiveness.
-62 -



AL             12 i                   10                    8
'-------- ----v        -                                                            go GUINEA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U I N E A,0
To Xime ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ oK go
-12'                                                                                             2
<0  ~~~~~~~  leI.n,eIe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       I  ~~~Niondokoro  /M         L
~~~               /  ~~~~~~~~~s~~ikrima  H A U T E
10" ~ ~ ~ t     1X h        '0o                           (     _  ; 1 
Ocecz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n. lk,Cona~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~din
*10 '   J L.                                        rnRUTES R E PAR TU  TEMP| 
CH2 < INTERNATIONAL DIRPO R T  \ > t < EFER  I '7
A t a n cMAURITANIA             i AERODROMES LEN/ G uE c 'RSIR                  -'  .
..-; BISSA   GUKINEA     8-0uRaA -   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES  r                             C  b)AOTE  80-
Conralrr*  -.  r, iF_ OIMItOTES DES PREEC             /                    L    I   D     1   R
ADMINISTATIVER REGONA ONDRESSrk
SIERPAFLE0-NE~"'.  ~  COE     INTE PRNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  / 
xn'  0              Guel ol '-KL E  or acceptance of such boundaries,  or any
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                N~~~~~RV R
-  Cult ol ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FEUE









Report No.:         23881  GUI
Type:     PAD



