Report No. 23863
Report No: I073378 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/18/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GUINEA Project ID: P073378
Project: HIV-AIDS GLOBAL MITIGATION SUPPORT      Task Team Leader: Tonia Marek
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 30, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 25, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 20.00
Managing Unit: AFTH2     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project is part of the World Bank's Multi-country HIV/AIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP2, report P7497 AFR) approved on
February 7, 2002. In accordance with the main goal of MAP2, the overall
objectives of the project are to assist the Government of Guinea in: (i)
preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS by reducing transmission among high risk
groups; (ii) expanding access to treatment, care and support for people
living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in Guinea; and (iii) supporting civil society
and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS prevention and care. The project
will support the implementation of the National Plan against HIV/AIDS
(Plan National de Lutte contre le SIDA - PNLS) for the period FY03-07 and
promote civil society and community initiatives for prevention and care
put forward by beneficiary groups selected on the basis of the technical
quality and likely impact of their proposals. The Plan is in the process
of being finalized. Its broad objectives are to:
fn keep the prevalence level of HIV below 5? by 2006;
n mitigate the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at individual,
household
and community levels; and
n create an enabling environment for a broader and stronger public/private
partnership to
implement the plan.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will support implementation of Guinea's strategic plan
through a wide variety of public sector agencies, private and
non-governmental organizations, and community-based organizations. It
will be implemented over a four-year period. The project includes four
major components as follows:
Support to community-based initiatives in the area of prevention, social
support, and mitigation. This component will build upon the experience of
the two Bank financed projects PACV and PPSG. Under this component, the
project will support action plans and proposals prepared by local
communities, youth clubs, women organizations, PLWA associations, as well



as local NGOs and religious groups. Local communities are expected to
receive about 60 percent of project funds
Support to Sectors. Under this component, the project will support annual
action plans prepared by ministries, regions, and prefectures, and by
public agencies, as well as by large private firms (more than 1,000
members) or unions (greater than 5,000 members). Action plans will
include performance indicators and define monitoring systems. Several
ministries are in the process of preparing action plans. The Ministries
of Health, Education, Interior, Mining, Social Affairs, Youth, and
Communications, and Commerce and Industry have already made concrete
proposals. These proposals will be further developed and refined during
project preparation. The proposal made by the Ministry of Health covers
the full spectrum of prevention and care activities, in particular blood
safety, voluntary testing, prevention of mohter-to-child transmission, and
sentinel sites. Proposals made by other ministries focus on staff
training and sensitization of the segment of population they serve. The
two largest trade unions, have made proposals centered on the training of
workers' delegates and the sensitization of workers in the work place.
Capacity building. The component will strengthen the capacity of
government agencies, civil society, rural organizations and private sector
to prepare and implement HIV/AIDS prevention and care projects. It will
reinforce the resource management, monitoring and evaluation capacity of
the HIV/AIDS committees. It will provide support and training to the
HIV/AIDS units of line ministries. It will include a comprehensive
on-the-job training for health personnel in all activities related to
prevention and care. It will help NGOs provide support to local groups in
the formulation and execution of proposals. Most of the activities will
be contracted out to local or international firms specialized in
communications or training. Procurement of condoms will also be given to
a specialized agency. Evaluation will also be contracted out.
Project management and administration. This component will provide
support to facilitate the programming, coordination and monitoring of
project operations, including support to the HIV/AIDS committees. The
project management component will support the incremental cost of the
executive secretariat, and the local units. The secretariat will include
a monitoring and evaluation unit. Funds will be available for financing
services provided by consultants.
Components:
Support to community based initiatives
Support to sectors
Capacity Building
Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will cover the entire country. Key characteristics of the
population in regards to HIV/AIDS are: inadequate knowledge and
- 2-



inappropriate attitudes, precocity of sexual relations, high prevalence of
risky behaviors, women's subordinate status, and the importance of mining
and trucking activities. The knowledge about HIV/AIDS in the general
population has been promoted mainly through national and rural radio, as
well as through the various development agents who have been trained in
the agriculture sector. Peer educators also promote improved knowledge
about HIV prevention and AIDS care primarily through youth clubs both in
schools and outside of schools. The social marketing of condoms program
has studied the market and made condoms easily available at     hot spots £
and other vending points. The major mining company has started an AIDS
prevention campaign for its personnel. An HIV/AIDS network of NGOs called
ROSEGUI has been established. They work with truck drivers and
prostitutes. For refugees, the UNHCR and MSF, along with the NGO IRC, work
on AIDS in refugee camps.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
- 3 -



The only potential environmental issue would relate to waste management of
medical products. A waste management plan will be developed (along
standardized guidelines of other MAP projects), approved by ASPEN, and
submitted to the InfoShop and in country prior to Appraisal.
N.A.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Stakeholders will be extensively consulted during the preparation of the
program through staff from the different sectors, and through
participatory workshops. Specific groups will be consulted through focus
group discussions, in particular prostitutes, miners, truck drivers, and
youth. Communities will design their own HIV/AIDS prevention activities
and will be provided a negative list as well as a non-restrictive list of
possible activities.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
- 4 -



Date of submission to InfoShop Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Tonia Marek     3/14/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         3/15/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Alexandre V. Abrantes    3/14/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5-



