Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H014 GUI 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS  Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 30 , 2002 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H014 GUI 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Association has received from the Recipient its national plan against 
HIV/AIDS (HIV/AIDS National Plan) dated September 23, 2002, describing the 
Recipient’s program of objectives, policies and actions designed to prevent and control 
the spread of HIV/AIDS epidemic (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on December 20, 
2001, the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region estimated in 
the amount of SDR 500,000,000 over a period of three years;  
(D) 
the Project is part of the Second Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Program for 
the Africa Region;  
(E) 
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. 549, adopted by its 
Board of Governors on September 29, 2002, to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
“Grant”) is being financed out of the funds so transferred; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
2
-
-
ARTICLE I  
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), 
(13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06(a); 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant; and 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account. 
Page  4
3
-
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“90-day Advance Account” means each of the accounts referred to in 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Accountable 90-day Advance” means withdrawals from Special 
Account B necessary to meet Eligible Expenditures (as defined in paragraph 1 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement) for each of the Main Line Ministries (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part B of the Project for a period of less than 90 days; 
(c) 
“AIDS” means acquired immune deficiency syndrome; 
(d) “CNLS” 
means 
Commission Nationale de Lutte Contre le SIDA
,
the 
Recipient’s national HIV/AIDS committee established and operating pursuant to the 
CNLS Decree (as hereinafter defined);   
(e) 
“CNLS Arrêtés” means the Recipient’s Arrêté No. 1855 dated May 7, 
2002 and Arrêté No. 1856 dated May 7, 2002 establishing the CNLS Secretariat (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(f) 
“CNLS Decree” means the Recipient’s Decree No. 016 dated March 5, 
2002 establishing CNLS; 
(g) 
“CNLS Secretariat” means the secretariat established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Arrêté No. 1855 dated May 7, 2002 and Arrêté No. 1856 
dated May 7, 2002; 
(h) 
“Community Action Plan” means each action plan to be prepared by a 
community group setting its strategy of fighting HIV/AIDS and referred to in paragraph 
11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) “CRD” 
means 
Communauté Rurale de Développement, 
a
rural 
development community, i.e., a municipality established in each of the Recipient’s 
regions; 
(j) 
“Financial Management Services Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and a financial management services agency and 
referred to in paragraph  7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Francs Guinéens” or “GNF” means the currency of the Recipient; 
Page  5
4
-
-
(m) 
“HIV” means the human immuno-deficiency virus; 
(n) 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the CNLS Secretariat and a CRD in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited in the  Project 
Account (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement and 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Main Line Ministries” means the Recipient’s Ministries of Education, 
Health, Youth, Social Affairs, Communication and Agriculture. 
(q) 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations; 
(r) 
“NGO Register” means the list of NGOs maintained by the Recipient and 
consisting of NGOs which have the capacity of providing assistance to community 
groups in identifying and implementing Sub-Projects (as hereinafter defined), and 
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
2
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Operations Manual; 
(u) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on April 29, 2002 and on behalf of the Recipient on May 3, 
2002; 
(v) 
“Project Year” means the first period of twelve (12) months following 
the Effective Date of the Project  (First Project Year) and each subsequent period of 
twelve months thereafter until the completion of the Project; 
(w) 
“Special Account A” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Part A.1 of the Project and referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;  
(x) 
“Special Account B” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, B, C and D of the 
Project and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(y) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account A and Special Account B; 
Page  6
5
-
-
(z) 
“Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made, or to be made, out of the Grant 
proceeds to finance a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(aa) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
a
CRD and a Sub-Grant Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) for the provision of a Sub-
Grant in accordance with paragraphs 11 and 12 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(bb) 
“Sub-Grant Beneficiary” means a community group, civil society 
organization, private sector entity to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Grant is made or 
proposed to be made; 
(cc) 
“Sub-Project” means any activity under Part A.1 of the Project, in 
respect of which a Sub-Grant has been, or may be, provided; and 
(dd) 
“Waste Management Plan” means the waste management plan to be 
adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, setting out the measures 
and arrangements necessary to ensure proper management of hazardous waste under the 
Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made in 
accordance with a Sub-Grant Agreement for the benefit of a Sub-Grant Beneficiary to 
meet the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for Subprojects to be 
financed under Part A.1 of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Grant Account is requested.  
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
Page  7
6
-
-
out of each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.   
Section 2.05. (a) Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on August 
31 and February 28 in each year.  
(b) 
The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
7
-
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through CNLS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure future achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
open an account in Francs Guinéens in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain the Project Account under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of GNF 300,000,000 
(the Initial Deposit) followed six months later by an amount of GNF 375,000,000; and  
(ii) thereafter, at annual intervals, replenish the Project Account by the amounts required to 
finance the Recipient’s contribution for expenditures under the Project as shall be agreed 
upon between the Recipient and the Association; and 
Page  9
8
-
-
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year:  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  10
9
-
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association
’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
Page  11
10
-
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried. 
(b) The 
C
NLS Decree and/or CNLS Arrêtés shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of CNLS to implement the Project. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established an adequate financial management system 
for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, including by entering into a Financial 
Management Services Agreement with a financial management services agency under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the purposes of assisting the 
Recipient in the financial management of the Project; 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted a Project Operations Manual including a 
Project implementation plan; a financial management manual; and a procurement plan for 
the implementation of the Project during the first Project Year, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein;  
(d) 
the Recipient has employed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(e) 
the Recipient has adopted the Waste Management Plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  12
11
-
-
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
B. P. 579 
   
 Conakry 
 
Guinea 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(224) 42 21 02 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
12
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
 
By 
 
 
 
          /s/ Rafiou Barry 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
  /s/ Hartwig Schafer 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Page  14
13
-
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
60,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 80% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods 
2,600,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 80% 
of local expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services and 
3,800,000 
80% 
 audits 
 
(4) Training 
360,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Sub-Grants for Sub-Projects 
7,000,000 
100% of amounts  
 
under Part A.1 of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(6) 
Refunding of 
530,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Operating 
Costs 
220,000 
90% 
 
(8) Unallocated 
830,000 
 
_________
15,400,000 
 TOTAL 
======== 
 
 
Page  15
14
-
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental costs incurred under the 
Project on account of fuel and maintenance for vehicles, equipment operation and 
maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses, staff travel, subsistence 
and representation allowances, salaries for contractual and temporary staff, management 
fees, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works 
costing less than $100,000; (b) services for consulting firms costing less than $100,000; 
(c) services for individual consultants costing less than $50,000; (d) goods costing less 
than $50,000; (e) Sub-Grants for Sub-Projects under Part A.1 of the Project; (f) training; 
and (g) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  16
15
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient’s multi-sectoral efforts to 
limit and contain the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic through: (1) implementation of 
the Recipient’s HIV/AIDS National Plan to increase access to prevention services as well 
as  care and support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; and (2) promotion of 
civil society and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS prevention. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Support to Community-Based Initiatives
1. 
Implementation of community-based Sub-Projects, aimed at HIV/AIDS 
prevention, care and mitigation, through provision of Sub-Grants to Sub-Grant 
Beneficiaries. 
2. 
Carrying out of participatory campaigns among local communities to raise 
awareness and provide information on the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and to identify demands 
and needs of such communities. 
3. 
Carrying out of an update to the NGO Register to include and assess NGOs 
which are interested in joining the NGO Register. 
4. 
Provision of training to communities on: (a) HIV/AIDS prevention and care of 
infected and affected people; (b) social mobilization for AIDS; (c) advocacy and social 
communication; (d) counseling; and (e) project management and monitoring. 
Part B:
Support to the Public Sector
Implementation of annual action plans to be prepared by several of the 
Recipient’s Ministries at the central and regional levels, including:  
1. 
Action plans prepared by the Ministry of Health covering HIV/AIDS prevention 
activities such as blood safety, voluntary testing, counseling, prevention of mother-to-
child transmission, sentinel sites and a pilot antiretroviral therapy for about 150 patients. 
2. 
Development and management of a hazardous waste system including: (a) 
acquisition of incinerators; (b) construction of burials of medical waste in selected health 
centers; and (c) training of health workers in handling HIV/AIDS hazardous materials. 
Page  17
16
-
-
3. 
Preparation and implementation of training guides including those on: (a) peer 
sexual education to be designed by the Ministry of Education; (b) counseling for testing 
to be designed by the Ministry of Health; (c) social mobilization to be designed by the 
Ministry of Youth; (d) advocacy and social communication to be designed by the 
Ministry of Communication; and (e) other HIV/AIDS related subjects as deemed 
necessary for the Project. 
Part C:
Capacity Building
Strengthening of the Recipient’s agencies, civil society, rural organizations and 
private sector capacity to develop and implement HIV/AIDS prevention and care projects 
including: (1) update of the Recipient’s HIV/AIDS National Plan; (2) provision of 
technical advisory services to public and private institutions; (3) provision of training, 
facilitation of communication and acquisition of procurement needs such as goods, drugs 
and condoms necessary to support implementation of Parts A and B above; and 
(4) carrying out of studies and surveys for monitoring and evaluation purposes. 
Part D:
Project Management and Coordination
Strengthening the capacity of CNLS to manage, coordinate, program, monitor 
and evaluate the Project, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2008. 
Page  18
17
-
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  19
18
-
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $5,000 equivalent or less per 
contract up to and aggregate amount not to exceed $130,000, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods to be procured under Parts A, B and D of the Project may be procured 
from the United Nations Development Programme Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office, United Nations Chil
dren’s Fund Procurement and Assembly Center, United 
Nations Population Fund or World Health Organization  in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for the Sub-Projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and described in 
the Project Operations Manual. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $96,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  20
19
-
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be procured under international 
competitive bidding procedures; (b) the first three contracts for goods to be procured 
under national competitive bidding procedures; (c) each contract for goods to be procured 
under direct contracting procedures; and (d) each of the first 10 Sub-Grants under Part 
A.1 of the Project,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
20
-
-
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services: (i) which are estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract; 
and (ii) for contracts under Part C of the Project, in aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,500,000, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of `paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Least Cost Selection
Services for financial audits, under Article IV of this Agreement, estimated to 
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines." 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience and the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
Page  22
21
-
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
22
-
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation Oversight
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, a CNLS Secretariat in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Association, 
and appoint thereto staff having experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association including a director, a deputy director, local and sectoral response specialists, 
financial management and administrative specialists and procurement specialist. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Operations 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, setting out details of: (a) 
the Project implementation plan; (b) a financial management manual; (c) Project 
procurement arrangements; (d) procedures for preparation, appraisal, implementation and 
supervision of Community Action Plans; (e) standard formats for Sub-Grant Agreements 
and Implementation Agreements; and (f) such other administrative, financial, technical 
and organizational arrangements as shall be required for the Project.  
3. 
The Recipient shall, no later than March 15, 2003, adopt training modules for 
training of trainers program for the First Project Year, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association. 
4. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Operations Manual 
and the Waste Management Plan; and (ii) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended 
or waived, the Project Operations Manual or the Waste Management Plan or any 
provision thereto, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.   
5. 
The CNLS Secretariat shall supervise and coordinate the overall implementation 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project 
Operations Manual. 
6. 
The Recipient shall maintain and update the NGO Register to include specialized 
NGOs which have the capacity to provide assistance to Beneficiaries preparing and 
implementing HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities including Sub-Projects. 
 
Selection of NGOs to carry out Project activities shall be from the NGO Register. 
7. 
The Recipient shall enter into and maintain, at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, a Financial Management Services Agreement with a 
financial management services agency under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association setting out details of the provision of financial management services by such 
agency to the Recipient including: (a) establishment of a financial and accounting 
Page  24
23
-
-
management system satisfactory to the Association; and (b) carrying out of all aspects of 
Project financial management. 
8. 
The Recipient shall, by March 15, 2003, develop and establish a computerized 
contract tracking and monitoring system. 
9. 
The Recipient shall carry out data collection surveys during the first year of the 
Project, prior to the midterm review and at the completion of the Project. 
B. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects
10. 
The Recipient shall provide Sub-Grants to finance community-based Sub-
Projects in accordance with procedures and criteria set forth in the Project Operations 
Manual which shall include, but not be limited to, the following criteria, that: (a) the 
Community Action Plan has been designed in a participatory approach; (b) the proposed 
Sub-Project fits into the overall Community Action Plan; (c) the proposed Sub-Project 
activities shall not be those of the negative list as it appears in the Project Operations 
Manual; and (d) the Sub-Grant Beneficiary shall co-finance at least 20% of its proposed 
Sub-Project, in cash or kind.  
11. 
Community Action Plans shall be submitted to the respective CRD for approval. 
CRDs shall submit a package of approved Community Action Plans to the CNLS 
Secretariat for Sub-Grants financing. Upon its approval, CNLS Secretariat shall enter into 
an Implementation Agreement with the respective CRD, in forms and substance 
satisfactory to  the Association, setting forth: (a) details of activities, implementation 
arrangements, monitoring and evaluation of the Sub-Projects; (b) the obligation of CRD 
to enter into a Sub-Grant Agreement with each  Sub-Grant Beneficiary, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in paragraph 12 of this 
Schedule. 
12. 
Sub-Grant Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:  
(a) 
the obligation of the Sub-Grant Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-Project 
in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards 
and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-Projects; 
(b) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-Grant shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in carrying out the Sub-Project; 
(c) 
the right of CRD or CNLS Secretariat to inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association  shall so  request,  the  goods,  works, sites  and  plants  
Page  25
24
-
-
included in the Sub-Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(d) 
the right of CRD and CNLS Secretariat to obtain all information, as 
CRD, CNLS Secretariat or the Association shall reasonably request, regarding the 
administration, operation and financial management of the Sub-Project; 
(e) 
the right of CRD, including at the request of CNLS Secretariat, to 
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-Grant Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the 
Sub-Grant upon failure by the Sub-Grant Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations 
under the Sub-Grant Agreement; and 
(f) 
the rights and obligations of any agency which shall execute the Sub-
Project on behalf of the Sub-Grant Beneficiary. 
C. Work 
Plans
13. 
The Recipient shall cause all public and private institutions participating in the 
Project to prepare and furnish to CNLS Secretariat annual work plans in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
14. 
The Recipient’s ministries’ work plans shall not be financed unless they are 
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
15. 
For purposes of implementation of the action plans referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, the CNLS Secretariat may conclude a memorandum of understanding with 
each ministry, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which shall specify, 
inter alia
:
(i) the activities to be implemented at both the central and regional levels; and 
(ii) the modalities of transfers of funds by the CNLS Secretariat to the relevant ministry 
for the financing of its action plan at the central and regional levels, it being understood 
that, in order to facilitate the carrying out of activities at the regional level, the CNLS 
Secretariat may directly transfer funds to the regional directorates of a ministry, through a 
monthly advance mechanism, provided that such directorates furnish on time to CNLS 
adequate statements of expenditures to justify expenses paid with such funds. 
D. Antiretroviral 
Therapy
16. 
Pilot antiretroviral therapy under Part B of the Project shall not be carried out 
until the following conditions are in place: (a) training of technical personnel necessary to 
carry out this therapy; (b) acquisition of equipment necessary to monitor patients’ 
reaction to the therapy; and (c) the Recipient has designed and implemented a system to 
control access to antiretroviral therapy including equitable and fair guidelines and criteria 
for selection of beneficiary patients of this pilot therapy.  
17. 
The Recipient shall: (a) continue to negotiate prices of antiretroviral therapy 
drugs with pharmaceutical companies; and (b) only procure generic drugs. 
Page  26
25
-
-
E. Reports
18. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  27
26
-
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means category (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special Account A; and 
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (6) and (7) set forth in said table in respect of Special 
Account B. 
 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Sub-Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in respect of the Special 
Account A, an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $600,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,500,000; and (ii) in respect of the Special Account B, an amount 
equivalent to $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said 
Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
Page  28
27
-
-
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph  
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  29
28
-
-
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
7. 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in 
Francs Guinéens a 90-day Advance 
Account for each of the Main Line Ministries in a commercial bank, on terms and 
Page  30
29
-
-
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure and attachment.  
8. 
The Recipient shall, in accordance with the procedures set out in the Project 
Operations Manual, withdraw from Special Account B and deposit into each 90-day 
Advance Account, an Accountable 90-day Advance. 
9. 
Payments out of each 90-day Advance Account shall only be made for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
10. 
In the event that the Association, after consultation with the Recipient, 
determines that any outstanding amount in any 90-day Advance Account is not further 
required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient, upon notice from the 
Association shall promptly refund such outstanding amount to Special Account B.
 
