Page  1
39757 
 
Updated Project Information Document (PID) 
 
This is an update of the original PID dated June 2002 following a request by Government 
to restructure the project, including changes in the Project Development Objectives (PDOs).  The 
project has been in implementation since March 28, 2003, had a thorough mid-term review in 
June 2006, and is currently being restructured based on recommendations of the mid-term 
review. 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Past Failures and Challenges from an Unsettled Environment
.
Guinea is recovering 
from the utter failure of a centrally planned economy, which prevailed until the mid- 1980s. The 
introduction of multi-party democracy in 1994 improved political accountability
,
even if 
elections have been plagued with widespread irregularities
.
Guinea’s stability has also been 
threatened by regional crises.  Conflicts in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Cote d’Ivoire have resulted 
in an influx of refugees, the destabilization of border regions as a result of incursions of fighters, 
and the return of economic migrants from Cote d’Ivoire. There is close consultation among the 
presidents of Guinea, Cote d’Ivoire, Liberia and Sierra Leone to review security and cooperation 
matters in the framework of the Mano River Convention.  Progress in implementing the 
Marcoussis and Ouagadougou Peace Agreements in Côte d’Ivoire will be important for restoring 
stability in the region. Discontent amongst Guinea’s population is on the rise.  Soaring food 
prices, rising electricity bills and unpaid state salaries provoked numerous strikes and street 
Project name 
GUINEA-MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS 
PROJECT (MAP) 
Region 
Africa Regional Office 
Sector 
HA - HIV/AIDS 
Project ID 
P073378 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA 
Implementing Agencies 
National Committee for the Fight against AIDS 
(CNLS) 
Address: Conakry, Guinea 
Contact Person: Dr Hadja Mariama Djelo Barry 
Tel: 224-41-52-83/41-52-52  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[x] B  Partial Assessment  [
 
]
C
[
]
FI  [ ] 
TBD  
Date PID Prepared 
June 20, 2002 
Date PID Updated 
May 4, 2007 
Date of Appraisal/Negotiations 
Date 
June 20, 2002 
Board Approval Date 
August 7, 2002 
Page  2
2
demonstrations, this situation ended up by the nomination of a new Prime Minister designated by 
the Workers Unions in February 2007. 
 
Poor Social Indicators.  
In the 1990s, Guinea made significant strides in human 
development, particularly in education, and managed to reduce the gap related to averages for 
sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). School enrollments increased from under 30 percent in the 1980s to 
56 percent by the end of the 1990s.  Girls' enrollment rates doubled from 20 to 40 percent. 
Important achievements were made in the health sector during the past decade to develop a basic 
health care system. Vaccination rates for Polio3 increased from 15% in 1982 to 17% in 1990, 
and reached 54% in 1995.  However, Guinea continues to compare poorly with other SSA 
countries. In 1999, for instance, one child out of four suffered from chronic malnutrition and one 
woman out of ten suffered from acute malnutrition. 
 
Success to Build Upon.  
Guinea was a pioneer in implementing a decentralized cost-
recovery system for primary health care.  The success of this system might be in great part 
responsible for the higher decrease in infant mortality among the poor than among the non-poor 
in the 90's, a result in equity that no other country of Africa has achieved.  In the last few years 
however, it seems that local health committees started mismanaging the committee's funds due to 
lack of proper supervision. In addition, the bankruptcy of the bank where all the committees' 
revolving funds were held contributed to the problem.  Another success in Guinea is its 
tuberculosis control program which covers the whole country with the DOTS system that was 
established in 1990. Since its inception, the program has never experienced a drug stock-out.  All 
donors, under the leadership of the national tuberculosis (TB) program, plan drug supply needs, 
and drug procurement and distribution collaboratively.  It is estimated that approximately 17% of 
new TB patients are infected with HIV. 
 
Epidemiological Situation of HIV/AIDS.  
The low official HIV prevalence rate 
reported in the past few years was more attributable to poor reporting and monitoring than to 
reality.  The sentinel sites which had been established to monitor Sexually Transmitted Infections 
(STIs) and HIV/AIDS prevalence haven't functioned since 1996.  With no data, it was assumed 
that Guinea's HIV prevalence rate mirrored that of Senegal, its neighbor, it was said for example 
that the population of reproductive age had a rate around three percent in 2000.  However, the 
national prevalence survey which was undertaken in July 2001 showed that the HIV prevalence 
rate is much higher than anticipated.  Pregnant women tested showed that HIV prevalence has 
reached a critical point in the urban areas throughout the country, at 4.4%, with particularly 
alarming rates in Conakry
 (5%) and Guinée Forestière region (7%).  The higher rates in Guinée 
Forestière region probably stem from conflict situations, including a large military presence, 
increased migration, as well as the well traveled road going to neighboring countries such as 
Cote d'Ivoire.  In the late 1980s, the gender ratio of HIV infected people, who reported to health 
facilities, was eight men for one woman. 
 
According to the 2005 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), the ratio of people 
infected with HIV is 210 women for 100 men. The national HIV/AIDS prevalence rate is 1.5. A 
number of factors contribute to the spread of HIV/AIDS, including: inadequate knowledge and 
inappropriate attitudes, precocity of sexual relations, high prevalence of risky behaviors, 
women's subordinate status, importance of mining and trucking activities, large number of 
Page  3
3
refugees and displaced people, and, more generally, high incidence of poverty.  About 40 percent 
of households are below the poverty line. The high rate of STIs is a major factor in the spread of 
HIV/AIDS.  According to the 2005 DHS results among adult women and men who declared 
having had an STI during the last twelve months, the HIV prevalence rate is 2.2 and 1.4, 
respectively, compared to the national prevalence rate of 1.5. 
 
Government and Donors Response to the HIV/AIDS Challenge.  
Since the notification of the 
first AIDS case in 1987, the Government response has been slow and uncoordinated but since 
then many efforts have been made.  The National Plan for the Fight against HIV/AIDS (PNLS) 
was coordinated by a National Committee created in November 2000 and chaired by the Minister 
of Health (MOH). In early 2002 the PNLS was abolished to be replaced by a multi-sectoral 
National AIDS Committee (CNLS) under the leadership of the Prime Minister.  The CNLS 
Executive Secretary was selected in May 2002. Focal points for HIV/AIDS exist in most 
ministries, and Regional committees (CRLS) as well as Prefectoral committees (CPLS) have 
been established under the chairmanship of the Health Director in each Region and of the 
Medical Officer in each Prefecture.  The prefectoral committee includes a representative of youth 
organizations, a teacher and a prominent person at the local level.  The Government's national 
budget has included a line item for AIDS since 1998.  Although this budget line continues to 
exist in the National Budget but no expenses can be charged to it due to treasury constraints
.
The following AIDS prevention activities have been financed from multiple sources: the 
Ministry of Agriculture trained 128 trainers, 1,500 agricultural extension agents
,
and 1,000 
auxiliary agents in HIV/AIDS prevention who have reached more than 700,000 farmers and 
110,000 cattle breeders.  The Bank-financed village community support project (PACV) trained 
50 persons in 33 prefectures.  The Bank-funded reproductive health project (PPSG) financed 
several micro-projects related to HIV/AIDS prevention.  USAID and KfW finance a social 
marketing of condoms program which is managed by a national NGO and covers the whole 
country, but the condoms are not widely used in spite of their low price of GNF 25 per unit 
(US$0.02).  USAID also provides technical assistance for drugs stock management. GTZ has 
been active in peer education.  Canada is financing its second HIV/AIDS and STI prevention 
project in two regions and could increase its coverage if further financing was available.  
 
WHO is involved in providing training activities.  UNICEF has been active in helping to 
set up 22 anti-AIDS clubs in secondary and technical schools.  UNFPA is involved in condoms 
provision among other activities.  The major mining company has started an HIV/AIDS 
prevention campaign for its personnel.  An HIV/AIDS network of NGOs called ROSEGUI has 
been established, within which such NGOs as SIDALERTE and MST UNIVERSITE work with 
truck drivers and commercial sex workers.  For refugees, the UNHCR and MSF, along with the 
NGO IRC, work on HIV/AIDS in refugee camps. 
 
At present, Guinea has a National Blood Transfusion Policy which includes the 
prevention of HIV/AIDS and 100% of blood units in hospitals are regularly and adequately 
screened. 
 
UNAIDS set up an extended national committee including bilateral donors.  This 
Committee meets on a regular basis for coordination purposes.  Since the creation of the CNLS, 
the UNAIDS Committee is working in even closer collaboration with Government. 
Page  4
4
Assessment of Results and Shortcomings.  
In January 2002, the MOH undertook a 
critical analysis of the Government's response to the AIDS epidemics. It noted the following 
weaknesses: non functionality of the different committees, poor coordination, poor intersectoral 
collaboration, lack of political commitment by sectoral ministries, lack of information and 
training.  Indeed, while initiatives taken so far are steps in the right direction, their efficiency has 
been sorely limited by lack of resources and the narrow focus on the health sector.  The 
Government therefore decided to adopt a multi-sectoral approach in the fight against HIV/AIDS.  
The CNLS was created and placed in the Prime Minister's office, and its membership has been 
broadened to all line ministries and partners involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS.  Religious 
groups are increasingly involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS and are expected to participate 
actively in the preparation of the new National Strategy (2008
–2013) and its action plan.  
Associations of People Living With AIDS (PLWA) are established and are represented in the 
institutional framework. 
 
Government Strategy.  
The initial Government's multi-sectoral strategy for the fight 
against HIV/AIDS covered the period 2002-2006, and it emphasized seven areas for action: (i) 
activities covering the whole population, namely community mobilization for HIV/AIDS 
prevention; (ii) improving communication for behavior change through local radios, religious 
leaders, and advocacy at various levels; (iii) targeted interventions especially for youth, 
commercial sex workers, refugees, miners, prisoners, military and police; (iv) health sector 
response emphasizing epidemiological surveillance, STI control, blood safety, mother to child 
transmission, and more generally testing and counseling; (v) care and psycho-social support to 
HIV infected people and affected families; (vi) research on HIV/AIDS; and (vii) strengthening 
the institutional framework, where the national, regional and local HIV/AIDS committees will be 
reinforced.  Their membership will be broadened to include representatives of institutions and 
groups active in the fight against HIV/AIDS.  Their operations will be strengthened through 
training and allocation of additional resources.  At the local level their role will be to support 
initiatives by NGOs, local groups and more broadly, the civil society.  The National AIDS 
Committee will review action plans prepared by line ministries and large enterprises and provide 
support as needed.  Certain areas of this plan will be covered by other donors than the World 
Bank, in particular for refugees and basic research.  Some donors are already financing other 
areas on a small scale, which will be expanded with Bank financing, such as targeted 
interventions for youth and STI control.  The Bank has been financing parts of this national 
strategy since September 2003.  As indicated above, a new national strategy for the period 2008-
2013 is under preparation in consultation with all stakeholders.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project is part of the World Bank's Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa 
Region (MAP2, Report P7497-AFR) approved on February 7, 2002.  In accordance with the 
main goal of the MAP2, the overall objective of the project is to assist the Government of Guinea 
in limiting and reversing the trend of the epidemic, by preventing new infections.  This objective, 
however, was found to be unrealistic and it is currently being proposed that it be revised, as 
explained in section 3 below.  The project supports the implementation of the National Plan 
against HIV/AIDS and promotes civil society and community initiatives for prevention and care. 
Page  5
5
3. 
Rationale for Bank's Involvement  
 
The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region places the epidemic at the 
center of the development agenda.  Curtailing the spread of HIV is pivotal if human development 
and overall development goals in the region and in countries such as Guinea are to be achieved.  
The Bank has provided leadership to the donor community in assisting Guinea move from a 
state-controlled economy to a market-based economy.  It has helped Guinea focus on poverty 
issues and strategies for improving the delivery of basic services to the population.  Considerable 
progress has been made in past years.  This progress is not sustainable, however, if strong efforts 
backed by the international community are not made to help Guinea implement its HIV/AIDS 
program.  Donors have expressed interest in supporting the program and indicated that Bank 
involvement was essential for its success. 
 
IDA has played a pivotal role in supporting the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.  The IDA-
funded Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
 
(US$20 million Grant) has been the main source of 
funding for the implementation of this strategy, followed by the Global Fund with US$12 million 
for three years.  The Bank
’s strategy in the field of HIV/AIDS aims at supporting the country’s 
efforts to stem and reverse current rising HIV/AIDS cases and provide effective care and 
treatment to infected and affected persons and communities as spelled out in the National 
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.  To this end, the objective of the Project was to support the 
Recipient’s multi-sectoral efforts to limit and contain the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic 
through: (i) implementation of the Government's National HIV/AIDS Plan to increase access to 
prevention services as well as care and support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; 
and (ii) promotion of civil society and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS prevention.  Based 
on the experience and lessons learned from the implementation of project activities in the last 3 
years, acknowledging that measuring HIV incidence is currently beyond the country’s capacity, 
and because it is not possible to determine if the Project interventions would be solely 
responsible for having an impact on the incidence, the Government has requested the Bank to 
change the PDO to make it more realistic and achievable.  However, the project description will 
remain the same. The revised PDOs are: 
 
·
PDO1: "Increase in HIV/AIDS knowledge and in low-risk behaviors"; 
·
PDO2: "Improvement in the coverage and in the use of HIV/AIDS prevention, care, 
treatment and support services ". 
 
4. Description 
 
The project supports the implementation of Guinea's strategic plan through a wide variety 
of public sector agencies, private and non-governmental organizations, and community-based 
organizations.  It is being implemented over a five-year period, since March 28, 2003, and is 
expected to close on July 31, 2008.  The project includes four major components as follows: 
 
Component 1: Support to Community-based Initiatives 
in the area of prevention, 
social support, and mitigation.  This component builds upon the experience of the two Bank 
financed projects, PACV and PPSG.  Under this component, the project supports action plans 
Page  6
6
and proposals prepared by local communities, youth clubs, women organizations, PLWA 
associations, as well as local NGOs and religious groups.  Activities are identified by the 
communities through a participatory diagnosis process supported by local NGOs specialized in 
this process.  Activities include prevention, social support, and care of AIDS cases Local mining 
companies which qualify as "communities" and submit AIDS prevention and care activities for 
their employees and their families are being co-financed by the Project.  The size of any single 
activity is not large (many are around US$1,000), with the larger activities for organizations 
needing multi-year commitment.  Quality is being controlled by the Ministry of Rural 
Development which is helped in this task by specialized institutions such as qualified NGOs.  
The selection of these specialized institutions is made according to predefined criteria and their 
mode of intervention is described in the Manual of Procedures. 
 
Component 2: Support to Public Sectors. 
Under this component, the project supports 
annual action plans prepared by ministries, at the central and regional levels, and by other public 
agencies.  These proposals are formalized in Annual Agreements which are signed by the CNLS 
Secretariat and the central ministry concerned.  Some agreements are also signed directly with 
regional representatives of the ministries.  The proposals made by the Ministry of Health cover 
the full spectrum of prevention and care activities, in particular blood safety, voluntary testing, 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission, and sentinel sites. 60% of the funds for this 
component are earmarked for the Ministry of Health.  This is justified by the fact that the 
Ministry of Health plays a large role in terms of testing, counseling, caring as well as in 
prevention through STI prevention programs.  The proposals made by the Ministry of Education 
also include school-based HIV/AIDS education.  The proposals by the Ministry of 
Communication include mainly reinforcing HIV/AIDS programs of rural radios as well as 
advocacy campaigns.  Proposals made by other ministries focus mainly on staff training and 
sensitization of the segment of population they serve.  Four national reference training guides 
which were designed by different ministries are now being used everywhere in Guinea.  The four 
guides are: (a) Guide for Peer Sexual Education, prepared by the Ministry of Education, but in 
collaboration with other ministries; (b) Guide for counseling for testing, designed by the Ministry 
of Health; (c) Guide for social mobilization, done by the Ministry of Youth; and (d) Guide for 
advocacy and social communication designed by the Ministry of Communication. 
 
Component 3: Capacity Building.  
This component aims to strengthen the capacity of 
government agencies, civil society, rural organizations and private sector in preparing and 
implementing HIV/AIDS prevention and care projects.  It reinforces the resource management, 
monitoring and evaluation capacity of the HIV/AIDS committees.  It finances pooled cross-
sectoral activities such as training, advocacy, as well as technical assistance to sectors.  It 
provides support and training to the HIV/AIDS units of line ministries, to the CNLS Secretariat, 
and to other sectors.  It includes a comprehensive on-the-job training for health personnel in all 
activities related to prevention and care.  It helps NGOs provide support to local groups in the 
formulation and execution of proposals.  Most of the activities are being contracted out to local 
or international institutions specialized in communication or training.  Some entities which have 
shown success in executing HIV/AIDS and SIT programs are also being contracted to rapidly 
expand their services and to also serve as technical support to the CNLS and ministries in terms 
of building capacity in the different sectors they work with mainly through training and 
supervision. In this regard contracts have been established with GTZ, SIDA3/University of 
Page  7
7
Montreal, and AGBEF.  Other specialized NGOs have been identified through a selection 
process after the first year of implementation. 
 
Component 4: Project Coordination and Facilitation.  
This component provides 
support to facilitate the programming, coordination and monitoring of project operations, 
including support to the HIV/AIDS committees.  The project management component supports 
the incremental cost of the Executive Secretariat.  The Secretariat includes a Monitoring and 
Evaluation unit where a contract monitoring system has been installed and funds have been made 
available for financing services provided by consultants.  
 
5. Implementation 
 
The project is implemented by a large number of public agencies and civil society 
organizations.  The CNLS Secretariat coordinates implementation of the project at the national 
level and is operating on the principle of 
"faire faire 
".  The Secretariat includes a maximum of 
six professional staff: a program officer, a procurement specialist, a financial and administrative 
specialist, a community initiatives/private sector coordinator, a public sectoral response 
coordinator, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist.  Staff were hired through a competitive 
process.  A number of tasks are being contracted out such as financial management and contracts 
monitoring.  The CNLS is supervising the project implementation.  Review groups are 
established to approve proposals made by public sector agencies and civil sector organizations.  
Each review group includes about seven representatives of the public sector and of the civil 
society.  
 
Regional, prefectoral and sub-prefectoral committees supervise implementation of action 
plans and proposals at local levels.  The project puts in place decentral
ized units such as “CRLS” 
and “CPLS” to help with certain administrative, financial and procurement aspects. 
 
The procedures for preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of 
action plans and proposals are detailed in an operational manual.  The manual includes 
procedures for procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation.  
 
To provide assistance to local groups, several specialized NGOs were identified and 
selected to train local groups to design AIDS prevention and care activities which can be 
financed by the project.  Such NGOs already exist and are working with local communities, 
doing participatory diagnosis and identifying relevant activities.  An NGO assessment was 
carried out in order to set up an open roster of NGOs from which Government is selecting those 
to be contracted for different services. 
 
Technical support is being made available from a Financial Management Agency whose 
responsibilities includes: (a) the establishment of a financial accounting management system 
including installation of appropriate financial management software that will meet Government 
of Guinea and IDA reporting requirements and a Contract Management system and; (b) the 
overall responsibility of the project's financial management by placing a full-time Financial 
Management Specialist in the CNLS Secretariat. 
 
Page  8
8
The contracts management system should allow the early identification of problem 
contracts and should provide the necessary checkpoints to trigger subsequent actions.  It is linked 
to the financial and administrative procedures. 
 
6. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the program depends on the degree to which the strategy and 
activities become fully owned by the various partners at national, regional, prefectoral, and local 
levels.  It hinges on improved capacity at all levels to develop and implement action plans and 
proposals that are effective in changing behaviors and providing care and support to affected 
groups. 
 
7.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Project design took into account the lessons learned from international experience with 
HIV/AIDS programs, and from the implementation of Bank-financed projects in Guinea. 
 
Key lessons that were learned from the experience under the MAP-I included: 
 
·
Importance of political leadership and commitment.  Experience showed that strong 
commitment from the top political and religious leadership in the country is important for 
the success of HIV/AIDS efforts.  The President of the Republic of Guinea, the 
Government and the leaders of the major religious groups have demonstrated strong 
support for the program. 
·
Need for a multi-sectoral approach.  Experience in Guinea and in other countries had 
shown that HIV/AIDS control activities start in the health sector, but needed to be 
expanded to other sectors rapidly. 
·
Need for community participation.  Local communities have a key role to play in the 
prevention of HIV/AIDS, the care of infected people and the support to affected groups.  
The spread of HIV/AIDS results in a heavy burden to local communities.  They need 
support to cope with the HIV/AIDS epidemic.  They are able to express their 
requirements.  Appropriate mechanisms were put in place to facilitate the provision of 
support. 
·
MAP projects tended to lose momentum after Board approval.  Funds available under a 
PHRD grant and a PPF were used to sensitize representatives of public sector and civil 
society organizations, to establish program coordination and implementation mechanisms 
and to train community development agents.  
·
Importance of partnerships: some MAPs had been prepared very fast and other 
development partners were not involved enough.  In Guinea the MAP worked through the 
UNAIDS group which was extended to other non-UN partners. 
·
The tendency for some National AIDS Committee to become bureaucracies: this was 
taken into account in Guinea by limiting the CNLS to six professionals, and by not 
creating decentralized units. 
Page  9
9
·
Importance of Monitoring and Evaluation.  The design of the monitoring and evaluation 
system should focus on who will use the indicators and how they will influence the 
decision-making process.  The initial PDO that committed the country to reverse the HIV 
incidence with the Project’s support was determined to be unrealistic because it is not 
possible to determine if the Project interventions would be solely responsible for having 
an impact on the incidence. 
 
9. 
Environment Aspects (including any Public Consultation) 
 
Issues: 
The program is not expected to have major environmental impacts.  The handling 
and disposal of HIV/AIDS-infected materials is the most significant issue.  An assessment of 
current practices was carried out.  A clinical waste management plan was prepared.  The plan 
includes training on how to safely dispose contaminated blood and other materials.  This training 
was delivered to health staff in the majority of the facilities.  Health organizations benefiting 
from proceeds to the credit are required to demonstrate that they have safe methods of waste 
disposal and that the training provided to their staff includes precautions in handling sensitive 
materials.  The waste management plan has been implemented and is currently under review. 
 
10. Financing 
 
BORROWER:  
US$2m 
IDA:  
 
US$20m 
Total Project Cost: US$22m 
 
11. Contact Point: 
 
Task Manager: Ibrahim Magazi 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone: 225-22 400 400 
Fax: 202-473-8216 
 
12. For information on other project related documents contact
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, I.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
 
