Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2160 ROY
                (Taiz Flood Disaster Prevention and
                   Municipal Development Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 16, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2160 ROY
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MHUP" means the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning
of the Borrower; and
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
    (b)     The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
Page  3
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2000 and ending June 1, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MHUP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
Page  4
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                        ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  5
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  CENPLAN                   2266 CENPLAN YE
                  Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                  By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works             8,200,000         65%
(2)   Equipment                 800,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(3) (a) Consultants'          1,000,000         100% of foreign
Page  6
        services                                expenditures and
        under Part A                            90% of local
        of the                                  expenditures
        Project
    (b) Consultants'            800,000         100% of foreign
        services                                expenditures and
        under Part B                            90% of local
        of the                                  expenditures
        Project
(4)   Unallocated               900,000
                             __________
            TOTAL            11,700,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to provide flood control
works in the city of Taiz and to improve MHUP's urban management and
development capabilities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
(1)   Construction of flood control structures in wadis Seena, Al
Nassar, Madam and Al Kamet.
(2)   Restoration of street pavement, terracing of unstable slopes,
provision of surface drainage footpaths in the city of Taiz and
provision of equipment for road maintenance.
Part B:
(1)   Provision of training to strengthen staff capabilities within
MHUP:
      (a)   to minimize harm caused by natural disasters through
appropriate planning and development policies, including provision
of early warning systems for major urban centers;
      (b)   to provide municipal engineering, procurement,
construction management, urban development and housing services for
the Borrower's growing urban population;
      (c)   to improve field surveys, design, materials testing and
research; and
      (d)   to manage, operate and maintain flood control works,
roads, buildings and other municipal properties.
Page  7
(2)   Preparation of a feasibility study, engineering design and
tender documents for a suitable future urban development project.
                        *     *     *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each.
Part B:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local Competitive Bidding:
      Contracts for works under Parts A (1) and A (2) of the Project
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$3,200,000, may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    International Shopping:
      Contracts for maintenance equipment estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Part C:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,200,000 or more, and with respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to the first contract for works estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $1,200,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 2 (a) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
      (c)   With respect to each contract not governed by
subparagraph (a) above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
Page  8
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (c) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall cause MHUP to employ by December 31, 1990,
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement: (i) an Advisor to the Housing Sector within the
Housing Directorate; and (ii) a municipal engineer to assist MHUP in
strengthening its branch offices.
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by October 30 of each year or such later date as the
Association may agree, furnish to the Association for its
concurrence, MHUP's proposed annual work programs for the Project,
and proposed budgetary allocations for the carrying out of said
programs during the following year; and
      (b)   by December 31 of each year or such later date as the
Association may agree, ensure that annual budgetary allocations
required for the carrying out of the said programs during the
following year are made.
3.    MHUP shall, not later than December 31, 1990, establish a
project management team within its Housing Directorate with
organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
4.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, commencing December 31, 1990, the Borrower shall
cause MHUP to prepare and furnish to the Association quarterly
progress reports, in form and substance agreed to between the
Association and the Borrower.
5.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1990, furnish evidence
satisfactory to the Association that all necessary action has been
taken: (i) to acquire land within or along the wadi courses listed
in Part A (1) of the Project; (ii) to relocate occupants of the land
within or along such wadi courses to other areas of the city of
Taiz; and (iii) to purchase houses located within public rights-of-
way of such wadi courses at market value in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1992, cause MHUP to strengthen
the management of its branch offices in Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz.
7.    The Borrower shall cause MHUP to employ by September 30, 1991,
Page  9
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, advisors to the Housing Directorate.
8.    The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1991, provide to the
Association a draft national policy for municipal resource
mobilization, including a billing and collection mechanism, and
shall exchange views with the Association thereon. On the basis of
such exchange of views, the Borrower shall, by January 31, 1992
approve a national policy for municipal resource mobilization, and
shall, by September 30, 1992, submit such national policy to the
Legislature for its consideration.
9.    The Borrower shall cause MHUP to employ by December 31, 1991,
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, an Advisor to its Projects Department to assist in
establishing a section on public works design and material testing
and research.
10.   The Borrower shall cause MHUP to employ by December 31, 1991,
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, an Advisor on mitigation of natural disasters and
early warning systems to assist MHUP in establishing and organizing
a Disaster Preparedness and Relief Unit.
11.   The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1996, put into effect in the
city of Taiz a system for differential price recovery of the cost of
the Project during a twenty-year period, calculated at an annual
interest rate of ten percent, in accordance with the national policy
for municipal resource mobilization referred to in paragraph 9 of
this Schedule.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and
3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
Page  10
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  11
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
