                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 28320

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-36670)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                        FOR A

                        THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                     March 26, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective February 2004)

                     Currency Unit = Leu
                            US$ 1 = 12.8
                                Leu
                           FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1     December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANRE             National Agency for Energy Regulation
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CIS              Commonwealth of Independent States
DFID             Department for International Development, U.K.
FDI              Foreign Direct Investment
FSAP             Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSU              Former Soviet Union
GOM              Government of Moldova
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
IAS              International Accounting Standards
IDA              International Development Association
IMF              International Monetary Fund
MTEF             Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NARTI            National Agency for Telecom Regulation
PRGF             Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC              Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC            Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SME              Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE              State-Owned Enterprise
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WTO              World Trade Organization

                    Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu (ECAVP)
                 Country Director     Luca Barbone (ECC07)
                   Sector Director    Cheryl Gray (ECSPE)
                  Sector Manager      Deborah Wetzel (ECSPE)
   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Lawrence Bouton (ECSPE)

                                          MOLDOVA
                     THIRD STRUCTRUAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Moldova                                  38

                                              Preface


The Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC3) to the Republic of Moldova in the amount of
SDR24.1 million (US$30 million equivalent) was approved on June 20, 2002. It was made
effective on August 7, 2002 and the first (US$10 million) of three tranches was disbursed. The
Government of Moldova (GOM), however, was not able to fulfill all of the second tranche
conditions by the September 30, 2003 closing date. In addition to the tranche conditions, SAC3
required the adherence to and implementation of the measures specified in the LDP and
maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, defined as a satisfactory IMF
assessment of Moldova's macroeconomic policies that would provide a basis for access to Fund
resources. The IMF was unable to complete the second review of the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) and the arrangement expired at the end of 2003. SAC3 closed on the
original closing date with the second and third tranches (totaling US$20 million) undisbursed.

SAC3 followed the blend SAL2/SAC2, which was approved in 1997, and its successor, which
was named, simply, SAC, which was approved in 1999. This ICR covers the period beginning
with design and implementation of prior actions for SAC3 and progress in the reform program
until the date of this report. It focuses on tranche release conditions and the broader program
described in the LDP.

This report was prepared by Richard Carroll and is based on a field mission in February 2004,
interviews with World Bank (headquarters and the country office) and GOM staff and materials
from the project file. Luca Barbone is the Country Director and Deborah Wetzel is the Sector
Manager for Moldova. Lawrence Bouton (Task Manager for the credit) had overall responsibility
for monitoring the policy matrix for SAC3. Harry Broadman (ECSPE), Irina Astrakhan (PSD),
Anush Bezhanyan (Pension Reform), Vladislav Vucetic (Energy), Mark Davis (first task
manager), Hoonae Kim (Agriculture), Joana Godinho and Betty Hanan (Health) and Marta
Castello-Branco (IMF) provided comments for the ICR. Bank staff in Moldova who were
interviewed are identified in Annex 8. Lawrence Bouton reviewed this report.

The efforts of the World Bank resident mission in Chisinau are gratefully acknowledged both for
logistical support and substantive input. Alexandru Otel provided excellent logistical support.
The interview list of members of the Government of Moldova and the private sector is found in
Annex 8.

Project ID: P065163                                                  Project Name: SAC 3
Team Leader: Lawrence Bouton                                         TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SAC 3                                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-36670
   Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (32%); Central government
                            administration (25%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry
                            sector (21%); Telecommunications (11%); Crops (11%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Other
                            public sector governance (S); Other rural development (S); Debt
                            management and fiscal substainability (S); Other financial and
                            private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/25/2001                                     Effective: 06/15/2002                08/07/2002
     Appraisal: 02/26/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/20/2002                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Luca Barbone                                   Roger Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:        Deborah L. Wetzel - Cheryl Gray                Samuel Otoo - Cheryl Gray
Team Leader at ICR:             Lawrence Bouton                                Mark Davis - Harry Broadman
ICR Primary Author:             Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

Moldova, a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), has faced enormous
challenges in its transition to a market economy. There are the physical challenges of being
landlocked and having highly variable weather in an agriculture-dependent economy. There is
also the legacy of the old system of obsolete industry and weak institutions. Externally, the terms
of trade deteriorated as trade and prices were rationalized, and the regional financial crisis of 1998
and the Transnistrian separatist movement aggravated an already difficult economic situation.
Partly as a result of these challenges, with the exception of 1997, Moldova did not register any
positive growth from the beginning of its transition until the year 2000. Moldova's GNP per
capita is only $560 (2003), less than half of its pre-transition level, making it the poorest nation in
Europe. More than half of all Moldovans live in poverty. Moldova has also accumulated
significant amounts of debt, with external debt at over 80 percent of GDP and public external debt
service at 44 percent of central government revenues in 2002.

The Board of Directors approved the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC3) of US$30
million equivalent (SDR24.1 million) on June 20, 2002 to continue support to the GOM's
economic reform program. SAC3's predecessor, SAC (see note), was launched in August 1999
and closed in December 2001. It focused on pension reform, land privatization and farm
restructuring, unbundling and privatization of energy enterprises and privatization of other
enterprises. SAC3 was a three-tranche operation and became effective on August 7, 2002. SAC3
was extraordinarily challenging because it required the government, whose electoral platform was
sometimes at odds with the reform agenda negotiated with the Bank, to implement an ambitious
reform program.

Note: The numbering of the adjustment operations in Moldova requires explanation. The First Structural
Adjustment Loan ($60 million) was approved in December 1994. The Second Structural Adjustment Loan and
Credit ($100 million, of which IDA credit was $45 million) was approved in 1997, with the SAC portion referred
to as SAC2. The first two tranches ($35 million each) disbursed in September 1997 and May 1999 while the third
tranche was converted to a $40 million Structural Adjustment Credit (which was approved on June 24, 1999).
This latter operation was called simply SAC, even though it followed SAC2. The next operation was appropriately
named SAC3, and was approved in June 2002.


Key Dates for Moldova's Membership in the Bank

§        Joined World Bank on August 12, 1992
§        Made IDA eligible (blend status) in May 1997
§        Became an IDA only country in May 2000

Objective

The original objectives of Moldova's SAC3, as stated in the Report and Recommendation of the
President of the International Development Association, dated May 23, 2002, were to support
and deepen the reform process and help achieve the objectives of the I-PRSP in two broad areas.



                                                      - 2 -

Specifically, SAC3 would support reforms to:

        Reduce Poverty:

·       improve the monitoring and evaluation of poverty reduction measures,
·       improve the education system, and the efficiency of health care delivery, and
·       strengthen social protection.

        Improve the Business Environment:

·       implement hard budget constraints
·       improve fiduciary management
·       maintain liberal market policies in the agriculture sector and further develop land and
        credit markets
·       secure the financial viability of the power sector by completing change of
        ownership/management control of the power companies and assure the independence of
        the energy regulator
·       reduce administrative barriers to business entry and exit
·       reform the institutional framework and procedures governing privatization, and
·       liberalize the privatization of the telecom and winery sectors.

SAC3 objectives mirrored the three pillars of the I-PRSP (Sustainable and Inclusive Economic
Growth, Human Development, and Social Protection), which was presented to the Boards of the
IDA and the IMF in December 2000. SAC3 was consistent with the            I-PRSP and the Country
Assistance Strategy Progress Report (CASPR-see section 3.3), all of which were responsive to
economic and social priorities. SAC3 followed in the footsteps of earlier adjustment operations,
supporting a broad reform agenda. In retrospect, objectives of SAC3, while ambitious, were
appropriate. As is detailed below, however, many of these objectives had neither strong nor
consistent Government ownership.

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of SAC3 were likewise consistent with the main goals of the I-PRSP and Bank
Group's CASPR of May 24, 2002, which the Executive Directors discussed at the same time.
The CASPR focused on reforms and investments in two key areas of the I-PRSP: (i) poverty
alleviation; and (ii) improving the business environment by reducing administrative barriers to
investment and new entry. The components of SAC3 corresponded with these program
directions and consisted of:

1.      Poverty Alleviation
        a. Poverty Analysis and Evaluation
        b. Improve Social Service Delivery: Education


                                                  - 3 -

         c. Improve Social Service Delivery: Health Care
         d. Strengthen Social Protection: Pension Reform

2.       Improvement of the Business Environment
         a. Harden Budget Constraints and Improve Fiduciary Management
         b. Reform Business and Administrative Framework
         c. Agriculture Sector Reform
         d. Energy Sector Reforms
         e. Privatization Program: Legal Framework, Telecom and Wineries

Each component and subcomponent was relevant to the reform program that aimed at poverty
reduction and stimulating foreign and domestic investment. Several components were designed to
continue reforms from previous operations such as pension reform, privatization, and health
sector restructuring, as well as to maintain past reforms, as in the agriculture and energy sectors.
While the program was appropriately designed to deal with Moldova's priority socio-economic
problems, it was soon evident that the GOM's commitment to the SAC3 design was weak. This
weakness is discussed in the following sections.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


ICR ­ Satisfactory. The SAC3 MOP presented systematically the risks and associated
mitigation measures. The risks fell into three categories: political, macroeconomic and
implementation capacity. Political risks of lack of ownership and instability and social unrest were
to be countered by front loading the core reforms and back loading of financing within a
three-tranche program, continued dialog through the PRSP and reducing budget arrears and
improving public services. Macroeconomic risks, such as, external trade shocks, insufficient
investment and high debt service were to be countered by close monitoring with the IMF, debt
sustainability analysis, demonstration effects from improvements in the business environment and
facilitating the supply of concessional resources. Weak implementation capacity would be
mitigated by essential TA from IDA and other donors in key elements of the program, close
coordination of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) with SAC3 implementation and intensive
Bank supervision of SAC3.

In general, the Bank recognized the risks posed by the election of a government whose electoral
platform ran counter to many of the policies supported by this credit. For example, part of the
project design featured opting for the strategy of an agricultural Memorandum of Understanding
that laid down principles to steer Government initiatives away from policy reversals. It is
questionable in the political climate at the time of SAC3 launch (and currently) that any design
could have achieved much more than staving off of reform reversals. In the end, SAC3 had to be
cancelled because legal tranche conditions were not fulfilled, key areas of reform articulated in the
LDP were not be adhered to and the IMF program went off track.




                                                  - 4 -

The MOP also cited the risk of declining ownership that was to be countered by frontloading the
reform agenda. Examination of the tranche conditions reveals that the most challenging and high
impact conditions were in the second tranche. Second tranche conditions were not fully met (and
some backtracking occurred) which, along with the points noted above, resulted in cancellation of
two-thirds of the credit amount.

SAC3 design did not include a parallel TA operation, as do some adjustment operations.
However, there seems to have been adequate TA support in virtually all reform areas despite
reports from component task team leaders (TTLs) from the Bank that SAC3 would have
benefited from more TA. Table 1 summarizes the TA that was available to the reform program
during the SAC3 period as well as reported areas of TA deficiency.

A lesson learned from the SAC (the adjustment operation immediately preceding SAC3) as
expressed in the SAC ICR made the point that "it is important to take adequately into account the
political economy of the evolving situation," adding that the leaders of the new government
"re-thought some of the directions towards which the Moldovan economy has committed itself."
Unfortunately, the ICR did not go on to state how that consideration would have shaped the SAC
differently, or the implications for the next operation (i.e., SAC3).

Moldova's financing needs argued for a SAC3 in part to mitigate the social consequences of the
need to run a primary budget surplus in order to pay public interest and amortization payments.
Through SAC3, the Bank could deliver an infusion of much needed liquidity while trying to move
reforms forward where possible and prevent backtracking on the reforms by the new government.
These goals were appropriate to the financial and political conditions in Moldova, and were
generally successful even though the overall implementation of reforms was not satisfactory (as
section 4 shows).

The objectives and components of the project were developed in coordination with the
Government. The Government requested the opportunity to demonstrate its reform intentions,
participated in active dialogue on the various components of the credit, and negotiated and signed
the LDP ­ all indicators that the program would go forward with the support of the Government.
Thus, quality at entry was satisfactory, despite the subsequent cancellation of second and third
tranches.

QAG ­ N.A.




                                                 - 5 -

                                TABLE 1: TA Coverage for SAC3
          Component                        Type of TA                           Source
Fiscal management              Debt management, taxation and      DFID and multi-year USAID
                               budgeting (Medium Term             effort, which was recently
                               Expenditure Framework)             terminated.
Poverty Analysis               Support for poverty monitoring     Bank Staff and UNDP TA
Health                         Hospital Restructuring Plan        Bank financed, also joint
                               consultant                         supervision with health sector
                                                                  investment project. (Health
                                                                  Investment Fund Project)
Education                      Limited TA for EMIS                Funds under the General
                                                                  Education Project
Improving the Business         Cost of Doing Business Surveys     Local consultants-Bank financed
Environment
                               SMEs                               USAID
                               Civil Code                         USAID and GTZ
                               TA for inspections diagnostics      USAID
Pensions                       General reform support, legal and  Social Protection Management
                               financial support.                 Project, ECFSP
Privatization                  Financial advisor for sale of      Advisor was hired using
                               MoldTelecom                        counterpart funds of proceeds of
                                                                  the credit (privatization was not
                                                                  successful, however)
                               Winery privatizations              Government hired a financial
                                                                  advisor using counterpart funds
                                                                  of the proceeds from SAC3.
Energy                         Privatization and debt management USAID, Bank supervision
                               consultants. Capacity building for USAID support for ANRE.
                               ANRE
                               Privatization preparation for      USAID
                               remaining two electricity
                               distribution companies.
Telecom                        Regulatory Support to NARTI        USAID, recently terminated



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The SAC3 outcome rating is somewhat complicated. On one hand, the reforms supported by
SAC3 did not advance significantly, nor was there fundamental Government support in many
areas. On the other hand, it is probable that in the absence of SAC3, reform efforts would have
stagnated and reform reversals would have been substantially worse. Thus, from a counterfactual
standpoint, as the evidence below will support, it was worthwhile, through SAC3, to continue to
engage the Government in the reform process. Stakeholders within and outside of Government
confirmed this view in interviews during the ICR field mission.

However, the conventional standard for outcome rating is the achievement of the declared
objectives. And although many of the second and third tranche conditions were carried out, the



                                                   - 6 -

fact is that much of the anticipated benefits from the reforms was undermined by government
actions that were inconsistent with the reforms and so the SAC3 outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
To reiterate, this rating does not mean that SAC3 did not have significant achievements, nor that
the operation should never have taken place. There were significant achievements in many areas
and it was better that the operation did take place than if it did not. The operation advanced the
reform agenda in a number of areas and, more importantly, helped reduce the incidence and
severity of policy reversals. It also delivered a $10 million financial infusion at a time when the
Government faced a need to reschedule its debt (and still does), though this amount fell $20
million short of the originally planned assistance.

This section reviews macroeconomic achievements, and then reviews the outcomes of SAC3 with
respect to the two project development objectives. In reviewing these outcomes, it is essential to
distinguish between the significant reform progress leading up to the SAC3 period (i.e., the
mid-1990s to about mid-2001) and the SAC3 period itself, (pre-effectiveness) mid-2001 to the
end of 2003 (with additional information on the reform program post SAC3 until the date of this
report), during which the reform progress faltered.

Macroeconomic Developments

Macroeconomic performance was better than expected in 2002 as real GDP grew by 7.8 percent
and inflation fell to 4.4 percent at the end of the year (Table 2). However, in 2003, inflation
accelerated - because of food and utility price increases as well as the rapid expansion of the
money supply - reaching 15.7 percent at the end of 2003. Growth remained strong at 6.3 percent,
but continues to be largely driven by remittance-financed consumption. Medium term growth
prospects are uncertain, owing mainly to Moldova's susceptibility to shocks and the low level of
investment. Moldova's economic base remains narrow, depending mainly on agriculture and the
Russian export market.

The poor investment climate has discouraged foreign and domestic investors from helping to
deepen and diversify the economy. FDI fell from 10.1 percent of GDP in 2001 to 6.0 percent in
2002 and is the lowest in per capita terms in the ECA region. Private domestic investment is
essentially unchanged during 2001 to 2003 at 14.0-14.5 percent of GDP, too low to sustain the
current growth rate over the medium term.

Growth also benefited the fiscal accounts. A robust increase in VAT collections and lower
interest expenditures (reflecting both lower interest rates and the accumulation of interest
payment arrears) resulted in a fiscal policy that has remained relatively tight over the last three
years. However, primary surpluses have been insufficient to allow the government to fully service
all of its external debts. The GOM suspended debt payments to bilateral creditors in August 2003.
As noted in the IMF Article IV staff report, the 2004 budget envisages a fiscal loosening and does
not provide for all scheduled debt service.




                                                  - 7 -

                         TABLE 2: Moldova Macroeconomic Indicators 2000-2003

Indicators                                         2000    2001     2002        2003
                                                                             Estimated
Real GDP Growth (Percent change)                    2.1     6.1      7.8        6.3
CPI, percent (end period)                          18.5     6.4      4.4        15.7
Unemployment rate, ILO methodology (%)              8.5     7.3      6.8         ..
Net Foreign Direct Investment (% of GDP)            6.3     7.6      3.5        -0.7
Private Investment (% of GDP)                      12.5    14.4      14.5      14.4/b
Government Primary Cash Balance (% of GDP)          3.2     4.1      0.4        2.7
Government Overall Cash Balance (% of GDP)         -3.1    -0.1      -1.8       -0.2
Exchange Rate-MDL/US$ (end of period)              12.4    13.1      13.9       13.3
Current Acct. Balance (% of GDP)                   -9.0    -4.9      -6.1       -8.8
Merchandise Exports (fob, US$m)                   476.8    567.2    659.8      790.0
Gross Official International Reserves (US$m)        218    229       269        260
Gross Official International Reserves (months of    2.4     2.1      2.1        2.2
imports of G&S)
Sources: Government of Moldova and IMF.

Objective 1: Reduce poverty through improving monitoring and evaluation of poverty
reduction measures, improvement of the education system, and efficiency of health care
delivery, and strengthening of social protection. (Marginally Unsatisfactory)

Poverty monitoring capacity has improved with improvements in the quality and accessibility of
household budget survey (HBS), which are now publicly available on the Government website.
There is better cooperation between government agencies in contributing to pilot questionnaires
in the social sectors for the HBS. The Poverty Monitoring and Planning Unit in the Ministry of
Economy has improved its capacity as shown in its development of an absolute poverty
measurement consistent with international practice. The Department of Statistics (DSS) has
improved its capacity to respond to various sectors' needs for survey data and is receiving
donor-funded TA for a number of activities (see section 4.2). An official measure of absolute
poverty, however, has not been adopted.

Significant progress was made up to 2001 with hospital restructuring and consolidation (from 265
to 65) and nearly $10 million in annual cost savings or about 25 percent of publicly financed
health spending was achieved - a restructuring effort which is unprecedented in any country in the
region. During SAC3, however, health sector restructuring has become more difficult, technically
and politically. The government approved a hospital restructuring plan for Chisinau (a SAC3
condition) to reduce the number of tertiary facilities in Chisinau from currently 27 to 12 over 10
years - also an aggressive and painful cut. The Government, however, delayed the
implementation of this plan (not carrying out activities planned for 2003) while it pilot-tested a
new health insurance system. Most importantly, following the countrywide implementation of the
health insurance system, all hospitals have now been converted into legal autonomous,
self-financing entities. They will receive funds from the Health Insurance Company (HIC) in
exchange for actual service volume and quality. This change in the legal and budgetary status of
the hospitals is important for the restructuring plan as there is no longer a separation between



                                                  - 8 -

Municipal Hospitals (which were under the Municipal budget) and the Republican hospitals
(under the MOH budget).

Pension reform measures met conditions, but were undermined, for example, by a lack of respect
for the indexation formula that was passed in April 2003. In 2003, the GOM increased pensions
more than called for by the index while in 2004, the GOM indicated an increase below what the
formula would suggest. Thus, the Government passed indexation, but then did not respect it.
The Government's financial projections indicate that the pension scheme is actuarially sound for
the next 30 years. This assumes, of course, that the basic provisions of pension reform are
preserved. Unfortunately, current interference with these reforms threatens to undermine the
soundness of the pension system.

The quality of basic education will likely improve in lower secondary education as a result of
establishing a new institutional structure for revising the curriculum, new learning assessments and
national examinations and increased textbook availability. However, the Government has not
formally adopted a sector strategy to address emerging inequities in the education system, which
was a third tranche condition.

Objective 2: Improve the business environment through implementation of hard budget
constraints and improvement of fiduciary management, maintaining liberal market policies
in the agriculture sector and further development of land and credit markets, securing the
financial viability of the power sector by completing change of ownership/management
control of the power companies and assuring the independence of the energy regulator,
reducing administrative barriers to business entry and exit, reforming the institutional
framework and procedures governing privatization, progress in liberalizing the telecom
sector and privatizing the winery sector. (Unsatisfactory)

The GOM has had a weak record with respect to eliminating financial preferences and investments
in the winery sector. During SAC3 implementation, the GOM adopted a governmental decree to
grant interest free loans for new vineyards but then suspended the decree when objections were
raised. After SAC3 closed, the Government indicated that it will provide a 25,000 Lei subsidy per
hectare to expand wine cultivation in Moldova. The funds are off-budget and are generated from
wine trademark fees. Part of the rationale for this subsidy is the difficult access of growers to
affordable credit. Vineyards must develop for five years before production and available credit
vehicles require payment after one year. Farmers also cannot provide the up to 400 percent
collateral to loan value. Nevertheless, subsidies from the state budget are counter to the objective
of establishing hard budget constraints, the Government's pledge to end all financial public
support for the wine and tobacco sectors and, ultimately, withdraw the public sector from these
productive activities.

After considerable delay, the first phase of tariff re-balancing in the telecom sector was carried
out, but the benefits were diminished by the exemption of a large segment of consumers
represented by veterans, pensioners and their families - a substantial share of the population in
Moldova. Winery privatization and planning for hospital consolidation have advanced, but have
not met the agreements and expectations at appraisal.



                                                  - 9 -

A number of measures to improve the business environment were carried out, most prominently
the elimination of the double VAT, which had impeded enterprise restructuring, and the
enactment of a new civil code that protects property rights.

Licensing was streamlined under a centralized Chamber of Licenses, but a few agencies still have
licensing authority. More importantly, line ministries have introduced new requirements for
companies prior to their going to the one-stop chamber of licensing. The Ministry of economy is
launching a re-vamped comprehensive initiative to battle the line ministries, but this initiative has
not yet begun to bear fruit. These and other measures are detailed in the next section and in the
Sustainability section.

On privatization, there was a condition that the government could relinquish interests in
companies where its percentage of shares was small, through issuance of stock rights. Many
companies took advantage and absorbed residual shares. Others did not exercise their rights to
buy because of the low value of the companies. It is still not clear what the total value is of
enterprises owned by the state, as data are not available.

The assets of both wineries and tobacco companies continued to deteriorate as privatization
proceeded slowly. Of the 10 wineries planned for privatization, only five were offered for sale
and only three were actually privatized. MoldTelecom again did not attract an acceptable bid, so
it remains in state hands. In retrospect, the timing was not right to attempt to sell MoldTelecom,
mainly because of the unfavorable international and domestic investment climate. The failure to
rebalance tariffs in advance of privatization may have also contributed to the lack of international
interest in the company.

Next to the persistent proposals to consolidate agriculture through producer cooperatives, the
most discouraging Government action was the challenging of privatization contracts that were
concluded under previous governments. The case of the Spanish firm, Union Fenosa, which had
purchased three of the nation's five electricity distribution companies, illustrates these efforts.
The Court of Accounts (CoA), a governmental body under the Parliament, challenged this
privatization. In the LDP, the GOM committed itself to resolving the objections by the CoA to the
purchase and sale agreement putting the case to rest. Instead, the GOM withdrew its objections
to the CoA challenge and the case went all the way to the Moldovan Supreme Court. It was not
until early October 2003 that the CoA finally withdrew it case against the government for
privatizing the three distribution companies to Union Fenosa and agreed to a three-party
memorandum (the CoA, the Government and Union Fenosa) stating that the CoA recognizes the
legal validity of the privatization contract and has no claims against it. Unfortunately, the case
dragged on for over three years, even beyond the closing date of SAC3, exacerbating the
perception that Moldova is hostile environment for foreign investors and contributing to the
decision to not to extend the closing date of SAC3.

The second big negative for the energy sector was the perceived lack of independence of the
energy regulatory agency. In particular, the agency was continuously under pressure by the
government to delay and/or limit the increase in tariffs even to the point where this issue delayed



                                                 - 10 -

the declaration of effectiveness for SAC3.      Nevertheless, the agency did increase electricity
tariffs two times during the SAC3 period, both for the privatized and state-owned companies,
with cumulative increases being substantial (20% for the privatized companies and 29% for the
state owned ones, whose tariffs are still lower). The main positive outcome in energy sector is
that the reliability of electricity supply has improved substantially since privatization and the move
to fuller cost recovery has improved the financial performance of the sector.

The GOM passed amendments to the privatization law to make it easier to privatize power
distribution companies. In an environment of limited investor interest, the constraint against sale
of a distribution company when there was only one bid was removed. The environment was not
conducive to selling distribution companies so the Bank did not press forward in this area, though
the Bank did insist that GOM have a financial advisor in place before SAC3 was made effective.
GOM is moving forward on its own having hired an investment bank to initiate tenders. To
further pave the way for privatization, the Government agrees to take over all distribution
company debt over 60 days old at the time of privatization. About 70 percent of electricity
distribution capacity has already been privatized. There were no second or third tranche
conditions for energy because it was considered unrealistic to expect further privatizations during
the time of SAC3 and because the Bank did not want to overload the GOM with conditionalities.

                                  TABLE 3: SAC3 Tranche Releases
                                                    Planned        Planned          Actual
 Tranche     Expected            Actual Date        Amount         Amount       Amount (m.
             Date                                 (m. SDRs)        (m. US$       US$ equiv.)
                                                                    equiv.)
     1         6-30-2002            8-7-2002           8.1            10.0            10.7
     2        12-31-2002            Cancelled          8.0            10.0              0
     3         4-30-2003            Cancelled          8.0            10.0              0
  Total                                               24.1            30.0            10.7


4.2 Outputs by components:


     Poverty Alleviation

         Poverty Analysis and Evaluation

The Government prepared a three-year plan for strengthening poverty monitoring and evaluation
that had wide government input. The Department of Statistics (DSS) appears to have improved
its capacity to address the needs of economic sectors for survey data. The Household Surveys are
now available on the website of the DSS. In addition, the Poverty Monitoring and Planning Unit
in the Ministry of Economics has developed a methodology for the establishment of an absolute
poverty measurement that is consistent with international standards (though broader consultation
is still needed). The remaining agenda includes (i) full implementation of the improved data base;
(ii) helping stakeholders use the household surveys for policy analysis that will lead to future
demand of survey data; (iii) broader consultation around the poverty methodology and (iv) official



                                                  - 11 -

   adoption of an absolute poverty line.

           Improve Social Service Delivery: Education

   The Government did not follow through on the third tranche condition to adopt a sector strategy
   to address the drop out rates of poor students. Though the Government has stated its
   commitment to educational reforms, it will need to accelerate its efforts to develop the
   information database necessary (Educational Management Information System-EMIS) to monitor
   progress in reducing dropout rates. Future risks include incomplete implementation or
   backtracking, limited capacity in policy-making, and limited downstream support for
   implementation. Funds for EMIS could be linked to Government adoption of the sector strategy.

         TABLE 4: Overview of SAC3 Components, Issues, Actions and Major Outcomes
   Components       Issues/Objectives             Actions                           Outcomes
A. Macro           Maintain a sound      Satisfactory completion of GOM carried out some but not all agreed
Framework          macroeconomic         IMF PRGF review.           prior actions and the Fund decided to let
                   policy                                           the current PRGF expire at the end of
                                                                    calendar 2003.
B. Poverty
Alleviation
  Poverty          Improve poverty       Built capacity in          Improved quality and availability of
Monitoring         monitoring and        Department of Statistics.  Household Budget Surveys and increased
                   input into line       SAC3 also laid             participation of sectoral ministries in
                   ministry activities.  groundwork for donor       data surveys. Donor (EU) funding for
                                         support for data gathering the census is on hold pending
                                         and analysis in other      re-establishment of IMF program.
                                         areas including a national
                                         census planned for 2004.
     Education    Improve basic         New structure for          3rd tranche condition of Government
                  education             curriculum revision,       adopting a strategy that addresses poor
                                        national examinations for  children drop out rate and increases
                                        grades 4 and 9, core       resources for poor children has not been
                                        textbooks rental scheme,   met. Outcome indicators are not yet
                                        and additional teacher     available.
                                        training.
  Health           Improve social        Adopted a hospital         Earlier consolidation reforms save $10
                   service delivery.     restructuring plan with    million annually, but little progress in
                                         targets for continued      further restructuring hospitals in the
                                         restructuring and          capital, Chisinau. A Hospital insurance
                                         consolidation of the       scheme appears to have replaced forced
                                         number of hospitals.       restructuring as the means to achieve
                                                                    sector efficiency.




                                                       - 12 -

  Components          Issues/Objectives              Actions                               Outcomes
  Social             Improve financial     Consolidated 15 pension         GOM has deviated significantly from the
Protection-Pensions soundness of and       categories into one under       agreed pension index formula thus
                     enhance real          new pension law and             defeating the purpose of indexing to
                     benefits from         indexed pensions to             maintain purchasing power while
                     pension scheme.       inflation and wage              permitting financial viability. Still,
                                           increases.                      pensions projections suggest actuarial
                                                                           soundness for next 30 years. Farmers are
                                                                           in the process of being integrated into the
                                                                           national pension scheme.
C. Improving the
business
environment
  General            Measure the            Second Cost of Doing            This was the second time this survey
    business         quality of business    Business Survey was             was carried out. It found that businesses
    environment      environment            conducted.                      continue to be plagued by bureaucracy
                                                                            and pervasive corruption. GOM has not
                                                                            published the study as agreed.
                    Improve the business Reduce the number of             Completed action, however, line ministries
                    environment.          licenses and centralize in      continue to introduce sub-legal
                                          the Chamber of Licensing. requirements before businesses go to the
                                          Double VAT elimination          Chamber of Licensing.
                                          and Inspections reform
     Energy Sector Maintain gains in      Pass amendments to make it These amendments were passed, but
                    privatization and     easier to privatize electricity privatization is moving at a slower pace
                    efficiency to date.   distribution companies.         than envisaged. Troubling was the case
                                                                          brought by the Court of Accounts that
                                                                          challenged the privatization of 3 electricity
                                                                          distribution companies with the goal of
                                                                          abrogating the contract. The case was
                                                                          withdrawn after the SAC3 closing date.
                                                                          Improvements in reliability of electricity
                                                                          supply, achieved prior to SAC3, have been
                                                                          sustained, as has financial performance in
                                                                          the sector.
     Winery         Halt deterioration of Three (smaller) of ten          Agreed 33% of state winery value was not
      privatization winery assets and     wineries were privatized.       privatized. The main state-owned winery,
                    improve production. Investor conference was           Cricova, was declared a national heritage
                                          held, but required bidding      and not eligible for privatization. Only 5 of
                                          documents were not              10 wineries were prepared for privatization.
                                          produced.
  Telecom sector     Improve                Carry out tariff                Only first phase of rebalancing was
                     competitiveness of     rebalancing and                 carried out by project close, and then
                     telecom.               maintain independence           was partially undermined by exemptions
                                            of NARTI.                       for veterans and pensioners. Also, tariff
                                                                            increases were delayed and reduced by
                                                                            the Presidency, compromising the
                                                                            independence of ANRTI.




                                                        - 13 -

Components       Issues/Objectives            Actions                       Outcomes
Agriculture      Pursue improved      Adhere to the MOU for    Largely adhered to the MOU. The
                 productivity         agriculture.             MOU was useful in preventing
                 through private                               government intervention in this sector.
                 initiatives.


        Improve Social Service Delivery: Health Care

Adopting a hospital restructuring and consolidation plan for the capital proved to be a struggle.
GOM commitment to the plan has been uneven. In fact, there has been very little implementation
of the plan since it was approved. The significant achievements in this sector pre-date SAC3 and
include a substantial consolidation of the number of hospitals, from 265 to 65, which has yielded
annual savings of $10 million. The largest hospitals in Chisinau, which account for most of the
sector's capacity, still need to be restructured. As part of the hospital restructuring plan, the
GOM has agreed to carry out the restructuring, but in 2003 did not begin to meet restructuring
targets as outlined in the adopted plan.

As a strategy toward the same end, the GOM has launched its national health insurance scheme
effective January 1, 2004. During the Mid-Term Review of the Health Investment Fund Project,
the Minister of Health expressed his firm commitment to implement the Plan, but the Government
considers that selective contracting by the HIC will provide it with a better framework for
consolidation and future closings rather than top-down decisions by the MOH. This insurance
scheme may result in restructuring by subjecting hospitals to market forces, forcing them to be
more efficient in costs of services. In any case, in assessing health restructuring under SAC3,
where the long-run goal of the reform program is to improve efficiency and reallocate resources
more toward primary health care, it is important to recognize that this goal will take some time to
achieve. At present 35 percent of health resources are allocated to primary health care, 15
percent to emergency care and 50 percent to hospital care. In practice, however, expenditures in
PHC in 2003 were about 31-32 percent, but still they were much higher than before the
restructuring plan was approved. Expectations for this restructuring to be fully implemented
should be on the order of 10 to 15 year period.

        Strengthen Social Protection: Pension Reform

The pension law was amended consolidating 15 categories of pensioners into one as well as
indexing benefits to a combination of price and wage increases. (The GOM is also working on
incorporating farmers into the general pension scheme). Unfortunately, pension reform has been
partly undermined by tampering with the indexing of pensions. In first year of implementation,
2003, the indexing ("Swiss") formula was not followed. Some beneficiaries were assured of at
least a L50 benefit, which, in some cases, substantially exceeded the index amount. In 2004, a
key government official announced a pension adjustment to the press that is clearly well below
what the index formula would call for, in light of the higher domestic inflation rate. The earlier
pension reform of linking contributions to benefits has not been undertaken which weakens the
long-term sustainability of the pension reforms and reduces the incentives to participate in the
pension system.


                                                  - 14 -

Improvement of the Business Environment

        Harden Budget Constraints and Improve Fiduciary Management

In light of the heavy debt burden on the budget and limited access to external financing, Moldova
needs to extract resources from the domestic economy to service its public external debt (Total
debt service of public and publicly guaranteed debt amounted to over 50 percent of central
government revenue). Excluding grants and privatization revenues. As evidence by the accumulation of
external payment arrears in 2003, the primary surplus has been smaller than needed and, as
suggested by the IMF Article IV staff report, the 2004 budget implies a significant loosening of
the fiscal stance. The Government did not include any budgetary support to the winery and
tobacco sectors from the budget during the SAC3 period. While the GOM adopted a decree to
provide interest free loans for the plantation of new vineyards, it quickly reversed this decision. In
January 2004, after the expiration of SAC3, the Government announced that it intends to follow
through on a plan to create an extra-budgetary fund to provide subsidies of L25,000 per hectare
to encourage additional area under cultivation for wine production. This action stands in direct
contradiction of objective of hardening budget constraints. A number of actions in this area were
successfully implemented: the Government amended the law on the Court of Accounts to limit its
mandate to the auditing of the use of public funds and the Ministry of Finance reorganized its
internal audit system so as to increase its independence and capacity.

        Reform Business and Administrative Framework

The second "Cost of Doing Business" survey indicates pervasive corruption and significant
official and unofficial barriers that raise the cost of doing business in Moldova. Licensing,
registration and inspections were all to be improved. There was some streamlining of the
registering process and licensing improved with the consolidation of licensing authority into the
Chamber of Licenses. An average business required fewer official licenses (2.2 in 2002 vs. 3 in
2001), and licenses were valid for longer periods (3.2 years in 2002 vs. 2.6 years in 2001).
However, the line ministries have continued to issue authorizations as a part of licensing process.
The inspection regime did not significantly improve as businesses continued to be harassed by
frequent and arbitrary "inspections."

It is too soon to evaluate the results in reforming the business environment, but there are some
initial data. The number of inspections of the average business actually increased from 16.6 in
2001 to 19.5 in 2002 but the number of days inspectors actually spent fell considerably from 93 to
48 days over the same period. Businesses, however, continue to encounter excessive
administrative red tape at each stage of business. Certification and standardization procedures
became more arbitrary and have resulted in increase in the informal payments and time required to
obtain import and equipment certificates. Obtaining building permits has become an increasingly
complex and expensive undertaking. In the special case of scrap metal, a business needs separate
licenses for collection, processing and exporting (The fact that only one business has been given a
license to export scrap metal contributed to the decision by the IMF not to go forward with the
second review of the PRGF program). Certificates are also required to approve types of factory



                                                  - 15 -

equipment and labor qualification.

As noted above, the CoA has further damaged the environment for foreign investment by bringing
a court cases against a number of foreign companies, most notably Union Fenosa, a Spanish firm
which purchased three of the nation's five electricity distribution companies. The case challenged
the legality of the privatization contract. Although the case was finally withdrawn, the ordeal
chilled the environment for foreign (particularly, Western) and domestic investment, which will
likely hurt Moldova's medium-term growth prospects.

        Agriculture Sector Reform

The Memorandum of Understanding on Agriculture (MOUA) between the Minister of
Agriculture and the Bank in December 2001 is the guiding document for policy in the sector. It is
part of the Rural Investment Support Project (RISP) as well as SAC3. The MOUA emphasizes
private initiative and market-based, liberal price agricultural policies. The GOM has taken a
number of initiatives that might be construed as being contrary to these guiding principals. For
example, the GOM, by unofficially restricting the export of sunflower seeds, engineered a
monopoly for sunflower oil production. Far more significant, the GOM, concerned about the
impact that land privatization has had on the agricultural sector, has entertained numerous
proposals to intervene in the agricultural sector in order to encourage the formation of producer
cooperatives. The Government's rationale for producer coop based consolidation is to achieve
efficient minimum farm size. In its LDP and the MOUA, the Government agreed that farm
consolidation would be "determined by market-based transactions and not laws or decrees that
permitted government consolidation of land without the invitation, participation and approval of
all affected land owners." Fortunately, to date much of the sector has achieved consolidation of
land through the formation of limited liability companies whereby farmers lease their land to the
company and then work for wages if they decide to farm. Insofar as the Government's land
consolidation proposals have not yet been implemented, the MOUA has been an effective
instrument in battling against reform reversals. Recent weather fluctuations have given the GOM
occasion for interference in the wheat and bread markets. The GOM provided subsidized wheat
to state-owned bakeries, which drove many privately-owned bakeries into bankruptcy.

        Energy Sector Reforms

There were no specific legal conditions on energy reform in the second and third tranches of
SAC3. Instead, the Government's commitments to energy sector reforms were specified in the
LDP. Failure to abide by these reform commitments led to a delayed declaration of effectiveness
and contributed to the decision not to release the second credit tranche.

As articulated in the LDP, the GOM undertook a number of commitments to further reforms (or
maintain past reforms) in the energy sector. Overall, the GOM's record in this sector is mixed
and the policy environment in the energy sector remained an area of concerned throughout SAC3.
The GOM was largely successful in imposing and maintaining domestic financial discipline in the
sector ­ hard budget constraints and tariffs at cost recovery levels. The Government has also
been less successful in maintaining a proper regulatory environment for the sector. While
regulator has adjusted tariffs upwards and, in the face of donor objections, the Government did


                                                 - 16 -

not carry through on its proposal to merge the energy regulator with the telecom regulator and a
competition agency, the independence of the regulator has been seriously compromised as result
of strong and continuing political pressure from the Government.


Under the program, the Government committed itself to intensify its efforts to privatize the two
remaining state-run electricity distribution companies. The lack of a financial advisor to assist
with the privatization of these companies also contributed to the delay in declaring SAC3
effective. Privatization activities are now under way, with assistance from several advisors and an
investment bank, giving some credibility the Government's claims that it remains committed to a
transparent and successful privatization process. The chances for success are significantly
enhanced by the fact that the companies are now operating with profit. However, there is still
considerable uncertainty about how the process will play out in the end.


The Government's commitment to improve the policy environment was also implemented in less
satisfactory manner. In the LDP, the Government committed itself to resolving the CoA
challenge to the legality of the privatization contract with Union Fenosa. The withdrawal of
GOM opposition to the CoA decision, however, led to a Supreme Court ruling to begin court
proceedings to annul the privatization contract. While the office of the Prosecutor General
appealed the Supreme Court ruling, after considerable Bank pressure, during the SAC3 period the
GOM stopped short of confirming the legal validity of the contract and left open the possibility
that contract could be overturned. Repeated postponement of the court case to hear the appeal
only heightened the uncertainty about the final outcome of this matter. After SAC3 closed, a
memorandum between the three parties involved (the CoA, the GOM and Union Fenosa) finally
led to the formal recognition of the legality validity of the privatization contract and the dismissal
of the CoA case.


        Privatization Program: Legal Framework, Telecom and Wineries

Wineries. Winery privatization did not proceed according to the agreement under SAC3 as the
Government successfully privatized only three small wineries, leaving the bulk of assets, including
the main winery, Cricova (which was declared a "national heritage"), in state hands. It had
committed to privatizing 10 wineries. Just prior to expiration of SAC3, the GOM agreed to
prepare bidding documents for five wineries with the assistance of a financial advisor. However,
even if GOM carried out the privatization of these enterprises, the book value of these wineries
would be too low to meet the third tranche condition (33 percent of the state assets in the sector).
The failure to privatize these wineries, combined with restrictions on state financial support (if
observed), is expected to result in continued deterioration of their assets. By contrast, private
wine distributors have been gaining strength and are accounting for an increasing share of sector
output.

Telecom. The telecom regulator's (ANRTI) tariff re-balancing plan was approved after
considerable delay. The first phase was implemented, though second tranche conditions called for
full implementation. (A second rebalancing phase was implemented in February 2004). In
addition, passage of the Law on Veterans and subsequent reduction in tariffs for all pensioners to


                                                 - 17 -

pre-balancing levels by the Minister of Transportation and Communications undermined much of
the benefits of the reform as well as the credibility of the ANRTI. This tariff rollback also
undermined the long-term financial viability of MoldTelecom, because local rates will not allow
cost recovery. The GOM also committed to de-monopolization of VoIP telephony after
considerable delay. Moldova has indicated compliance with its WTO commitment to open its
telecom market to competition on January 1, 2004. A tender for MoldTelecom was launched,
but attracted only one unsatisfactory bid from a Russian firm. MoldTelecom is the largest
contributor to the Government budget and employs 8,000 people, so there is an additional
incentive for the Government not to rush to privatization that could lead to reduced government
revenue and the likely trimming of the enterprise's employees. As in the electricity sector, the
Government also interfered in the independence of the sector regulator ANRTI. Preferential
pricing packages ("social" and "economy") were offered for large segments of the population.

Legal framework for privatization. The Parliament passed a new privatization law acceptable
to the Bank. A decree to simplify and streamline auctions and tenders procedures was also
approved. Efforts to privatize remaining state assets have not matched this legislative
achievement.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


Modest. Viewed in its totality and given its starting point in the early 1990s, the cumulative
Institutional Development Impact (IDI) has been substantial. However, the IDI during the time
period covered by SAC3 of 2001-03 was modest at best. The GOM took measures to improve
the legal framework for pensions, privatizations and telecom, but the follow-through was weak.
Some of the weak record on privatization can be attributed to the equally weak investor climate.
However, rollbacks, as manifested in the Law on Veterans, can be explained only by weak
Government commitment to the reform program. The Cost of Doing Business survey also
showed modest improvement in the business climate. IDI with respect to regulation of the energy
and telecom sectors has been weak with political interference in tariff policy as characterized by,
for example, the political capture of the two regulators. With the regulatory authorities'
credibility undermined, IDI has also been modest in these sectors.

In the health sector, the impact could be substantial, but will be fully realized only when Chisinau
hospitals are consolidated as planned, which now depends to a large extent on the success of the
national health insurance scheme. Pension reforms have led to a much improved pension system,
but, again, much of this progress was achieved prior to SAC3. The additional reforms under
SAC3, such as the application of indexing, have been partially undermined and have not yielded
full benefits. Poverty monitoring has also improved, but more time is needed to judge whether



                                                 - 18 -

the outputs and analysis will find their way into targeting and other poverty reduction policy.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The external environment was unfavorable to further privatizations in telecom and electricity
distribution. With the collapse of global energy service companies, the interest of quality
investors (in terms of financing and sectoral expertise) was low. Inclement weather that led to a
drop in the output of some agricultural commodities also slowed some reform activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

While, as noted above, some progress was made under the agreed SAC3 program, it was
insufficient to warrant the release of the second and third tranches of SAC3. More could have
been achieved if Government commitment to the program through the period of implement had
been stronger. Instead, the Government often proposed or implemented actions that directly
contradicted the agreed reform program. Major examples were the policies that undermined
efforts to achieve cost recovery tariffs in the telecom sector, privatize strategic assets in the
winery sector and sustain reforms in the energy sector by confirming the legal validity of the
privatization contract with Union Fenosa. The absence of a program with the IMF, and little
prospect for its resumption in the near future, created excessive uncertainty about the
macroeconomic outlook. Without an agreed macroeconomic framework, the Bank is unable to
disburse adjustment funds. While the IMF noted that implementation of macroeconomic targets
under the PRGF-supported program was broadly satisfactory, the decision not to complete the
second review of the PRGF hinged on weak implementation of structural reforms, such as ending
of the requirement for pre-shipment inspections and failure to remove export controls on scrap
metal.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

There did appear to be some sector-specific, IA-related factors that impeded implementation.
There was a pattern at some agencies of dragging out the process of meeting tranche conditions
such as rebalancing telecom tariffs, consolidating pension privileges, implementing the hospital
restructuring plan and preparing state-owned wineries for privatization. Weak implementation
capacity may explain part of these delays. However, given the slow down and partial reversal of
some reforms, the delays appear to be explained more by a government-wide reluctance to pursue
certain reforms.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original credit amount was SDR24.1 million (US$30 million equivalent). Only the first
tranche (SDR8.1 million or US$10.7 million) was disbursed, with the remaining two tranches
(SDR16 million or US$20 million) cancelled. The credit was made on standard IDA terms with a
term of 40 years, a 10-year grace period, a standard commitment fee and an IDA service charge
of 75 basis points on the disbursed and undisbursed balances. The borrower was the Republic of



                                                     - 19 -

Moldova.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The sustainability of the SAC3-supported reform program is rated unlikely for the immediate and
medium terms. The passage of the Veterans Law undermined tariff rebalancing efforts and,
hence, the longer-term financial viability of the state-owned telecom operator. It also reversed
past reform efforts to improve targeting of social assistance by moving away from
categorical-based targeting. Lack of progress in the privatization of the state-owned wineries will
led to the further financial weakening of these enterprise and undermine efforts to create a market
for Moldovan wine by attracting strategic investors. Government actions undermining the
independence and authority of the telecom and energy regulators cast doubts on the sustainability
of reforms in these sectors. At the same time, the Government has moved forward in many
reform areas, as shown in section 4 (Table 4), and many reforms will be sustained. However, it is
not justified to rate sustainability as likely in an environment where there have been significant
reform reversals and where a number of reforms have not been fully implemented.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Sustainability of development outcomes can best be assured by improved transparency and
accountability of government institutions, including customs, tax administration and inspections,
and improved business climate to encourage investment, which will also offer the best prospect
for growth in the medium term. The Ministry of Economy has recently recognized the need to
improve the business environment and remedy the problems that continue to plague licensing and
inspections regimes and move toward deregulation of business activities. The recent draft PRSP
outlines a number of medium and long term objectives that could provide a basis for continued
donor support to Moldova's reform efforts. The establishment a strong track record of continued
reforms will ensure that the recent strong growth and poverty reduction performance can be
sustained over the medium term.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Satisfactory. The Bank responded to the GOM's urgent need for financing and, at the same
time, launched a project that built upon the reforms undertaken under previous adjustment
operations and used the knowledge gained and lessons learned from those operations. On the
downside, staff turnover led to the discontinuity of senior staff involved in the SAC3 operation.
Both the Country Director and the task manager changed at key times. There was a task manager
for preparation, a new task manager for negotiating the credit and authoring the appraisal report,
and yet another manager for supervision. Although this was problematic, it was probably not
decisive to the overall rating because there was considerable continuity at the sector staff level.
TA support came from the Bank sector projects and other donors, and was adequate.




                                                   - 20 -

The design of the operation was consistent with the pillars outlined in the CAS and the I-PRSP
and was developed with the participation and agreement of the Government. The new
Government indicated its desire to work closely with its international partners, especially the Bank
and the IMF, to implement its economic and social reform program. SAC3, negotiated in good
faith, provided the GOM with the opportunity to prove its reforms intentions. The Bank was
aware of the risk associated with insufficient ownership of the reform program and was cognizant
that delays in policy implementation could materialize. The Bank, however, was not able to
ensure a consistent level of ownership by the borrower for all the element of the broad reform
agenda supported by SAC3. (See Quality at Entry section). The design of the program, three
tranches with front-loading of reforms and backloading of financing, attempted to mitigate these
risks and, in the end, offered the Bank a clear exit strategy when the implementation of the
program went off track.

7.2 Supervision:


Satisfactory. The Bank did preserve continuity of management and component level staff during
supervision. This continuity meant allowed staff with country-specific, sector expertise to
effectively monitor and evaluate progress in implementing reforms supported by SAC3. From
the very beginning, the Bank task team stood firm on its insistent that credit tranches would only
be released upon satisfactory implementation of the agreed specific tranche conditions as well as
the adherence to and implementation of the measures specified in the LDP. When it was evident
that the Government did not have sufficient ownership of the program and was not likely to
complete it in either a timely or satisfactory way, the decision was taken not to extend the original
closing date of the credit thereby canceling the remaining two credit tranches.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Satisfactory. On balance, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Operationally, the
project built upon the reforms undertaken under previous adjustment operations and supported an
appropriate reform agenda. The program, negotiated in good faith, took a calculated risk but was
designed with a clear exit strategy in the event that reform reversals became too numerous and
implementation delays too long.     When it appeared that the government could not deliver the
promised reform, the Bank appropriately did not grant an extension.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


Satisfactory. As part of the credit preparation process, the GOM engaged the Bank in policy
dialogue and, in the end, agreed with the reform program arrived at during appraisal and
negotiation. Government support for other Bank-funded projects suggested ownership at the
component level. As required for Board presentation, the GOM undertook considerable up-front
policy actions.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Unsatisfactory. As noted above, while the GOM did make efforts to meet the various SAC3
legal conditions, its lack of ownership of the overall program led to measures that damaged the


                                                - 21 -

business climate, prolonged implementation delays, non-fulfillment of some of the conditions and
even to backtracking on some of the already made reforms.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Satisfactory. Overall progress was made, but there were actions that impeded full
implementation and undermined the desired outcomes of the program. As mentioned above, at the
component level, ownership was better and performance higher than at the broad government
level.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Unsatisfactory. With numerous reversals in reform and protracted delays in implementation, the
Borrower's performance with respect to SAC3, to which the same government had agreed, is
unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Bank was aware that the new Government's electoral platform was often at odds with the
reform agenda supported by SAC3. So, the Bank was faced with the choice of pursuing an
adjustment operation, providing some budget support and continuing to engage in order to limit
the reform reversals, or to disengage. It chose the former. It was the right decision because more
serious policy reversals almost certainly would have occurred in the absence of SAC3. Tariff
re-balancing, though partially undermined, probably would likely have been much delayed or not
have taken place at all. A hospital restructuring plan for the further elimination of excess capacity
in Chisinau Municipality Hospital and Republican Hospitals might never have been developed and
the case against Union Fenosa might have actually led to cancellation of the privatization contract.
Whether the strong stance not to extend SAC3 will be beneficial in the long-run, will depend on
the GOM response. Either reforms will unravel, or they will get back on track. However, thanks
to at least partial implementation of SAC3, the Government is in a far better position to continue
reforms under the new PRSP framework.

Granting extensions can be costly to subsequent operations if it sets a precedent for
noncompliance. In the case of Moldova, there was a mixture of delays and last minute
scrambling to implement. In the end, the Government came up short in its implementation of
second tranche conditions and adherence to the LDP. Bank staff report some surprise by their
Moldovan counterparts when the extension of SAC3 was denied and the remaining funds
cancelled. It is conceivable that the Moldovans could have reasonably expected an extension
given that they were taking action toward meeting the tranche release conditions, and because the
previous adjustment operation had received a one-year extension.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Agreement on the Structural Adjustment Credit III of US$ 30 mln was signed on 25 April 2002
by the representatives of the Republic of Moldova and the International Development Agency.


                                                - 22 -

On 12 August 2002, the first tranche of SAC III in the amount of US$ 10,648,020 (Mdl
144,865,210) was received to the account of the Ministry of Finance ­ Central Treasury, which
was used during 2002 to make external payments to the EBRD and IBRD.

Priorities of SAC III project include supporting the reforms carried out by the Government of
Moldova with a view to ensuring sustainable growth and improving the living conditions in
Moldova, by taking the following measures:

I.      Improve the quality of social services and ensure equitable access to such services;
improve social protection and raise its efficiency;

II.     Establish a framework, including legal framework, in order to attract investment,
restructure and develop enterprises.

I. In order to streamline the education and health sectors, to develop new cost-efficient reform
strategies for the sectors, and to ensure equitable social protection, it is necessary to develop a
methodology for the identification of the indigent and a methodology to analyze policy impact on
the indigent. To this end, the Government approved and has been implementing a medium-term
plan, which makes it possible to create an efficient institutional framework and to improve data
sources in order to analyze, monitor, and assess various aspects of poverty, as well as human
resources.

At the same time, a set of measures was taken necessary to improve the quality of social services
and expand the access of vulnerable strata to such services.

In particular,

(i)     A reform program was implemented to improve the quality of primary and gymnasium
education; access of students from the indigent families to university education was expanded;
measures have been taken to build capacity and develop policy analysis and medium- and
long-term strategic planning skills, using Education Management Information System;

(ii)    Health sector restructuring was started with hospital services consolidation and
streamlining at the local and regional levels and enhancement of primary and emergency care
networks. Compulsory health insurance system was implemented throughout the country, which
will lead to improved resource allocation in order to ensure more equitable and efficient
distribution of health services and streamlining of the infrastructure;

(iii)   Pay-as-you-go system was further streamlined by establishing links between individual
contributions and received pensions and gradual increase of the retirement age. Moreover, most
privileges were eliminated and transparency and equity of the system was improved. Transparent
and low-cost pension indexation scheme was developed and approved to be applied to all
subsequent pension increases; current legislation was amended in order to make retirement
conditions uniform for various population categories. Introduction of a system of individual



                                                - 23 -

accounting for contributions and reform of the pension system for agricultural workers and the
self-employed have been fully underway.

II.      The Government has placed special emphasis on the business framework reform as a
prerequisite for attracting investment and enterprise restructuring and development.

The Government took action in four main areas:

(i)      Secure ownership rights and create a competitive economy based on private initiative.
New Civil Code was approved, which explicitly provides for ownership and other in rem rights;
amendments to the Land Code were approved, which ensure ownership in land and make it
possible to freely exercise ownership rights.

(ii)     Lower business costs and enterprise restructuring costs. Insolvency Law, Licensing Law,
and Collateral Law were passed; a good progress in their implementation has been made;
enterprise registration procedure was streamlined based on the ,,one-strop shopping" principle,
which lowered the registration time and costs;

(iii)    Raise the efficiency of the regulatory framework. Amendments to the Court of Auditors
Law were approved so that the powers of the Court of Auditors are limited to the audit of use of
public funds; in order to enhance transparency and responsibility in the inspection system, several
supervisory bodies within the Center for Combating Economic Crimes and Corruption were
merged, and reform of the inspection procedures has been launched; independence of energy and
telecommunications regulatory agencies has been maintained to ensure efficient regulation of
enterprises in the sectors;

(iv)     Improve financial management in the country. The treasury system was extended to the
entire country; Large Taxpayers' Unit was set up; all inefficient and poorly targeted financial
support for the national economy sectors was eliminated; active cooperation with the international
institutions on the Assessment of Financial Responsibility of the Country (AFRC) has been
underway.

The Moldovan Government has been satisfied with the SAC III Program implementation. Such an
assessment of the Government is both due to the fact that practically all the conditionality of the
Program has been met, and the impetus the actions gave to the structural reform promotion
process. The sustainability of results of implemented SAC III actions is attested by the concepts
of line strategies as envisaged by the Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy. Line strategies
envisage the maintenance and furthering of policies in various areas: education, health, social
protection, private sector and infrastructure development.

We believe the failure to implement several measures under the Program could be accounted for
by several factors due to both those involved in the Program implementation ­ the Government
and the World Bank ­ and externalities beyond their control.

(i)      Better link should be ensured between the allocations and envisaged actions, so that



                                                - 24 -

proposed sources provide financial support for the implementation of sector-specific measures
and are disbursed gradually as those sector-specific measures are implemented. For example,
some of the envisaged sources should be linked to the progress in the implementation of the
approved hospital restructuring plan and specifically channeled to support this process;

(ii)     Actions should be implemented based on detailed analysis of needs, current conditions,
and effect of implementation, rather than based on overall perception. For example, elimination of
investment requirements during privatization of some facilities, or privatization for the sake of
privatization; elimination of wheat reserves;

(iii)    The World Bank should monitor more proactively the implications of implementation of
actions, and responsibility in the event of failure to achieve expected results (such as wheat
shortage, elimination of negative implications of sector reforms) should be shared;

(iv)     Lack of measures to reform such crucial sectors as public sector or judiciary ­ the
implementation of many other measures hinges on their development.

The Government is hopeful to rely on further support from the Bank in the development,
facilitation, and implementation of the PRSP.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The borrower's comments reflect a satisfaction with the Government's program implementation.
It presents a positive overview of the reforms implemented by the government. The comments
also presented four arguments for the failure to implement some of the SAC3 measures.

Under point (i), our understanding of the government's position is that they should have been
financially rewarded for partial implementation. Such a proposal, partial credit for partial
implementation, is contrary the credit agreement and Bank practices. Further, the Government
was informed at the very beginning of the operation that no waivers to the tranche conditions
would be considered. It was the judgment of Bank management that the reform reversal and the
lack of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework warranted the decision not to extend the
program beyond its original closing date.

Under points (ii) and (iii), the Government and Bank both agreed to the set of actions that would
be undertaken under SAC3.         The lesson we can draw from this is that the Government needs to
work with the Bank to develop a fuller appreciation of the implications and consequences of the
reform program.

Under point (iv), we agree with the Government that the reform of the public sector and judiciary
are important measures in and of themselves. At the time of SAC3 preparation, it was apparent
that the reform agenda was already ambitious. In retrospect, it would have been difficult to add


                                                 - 25 -

these major reforms challenges to a program already suffering from implementations difficulties.




               TABLE 5: Summary of PSR Ratings for Moldova SAC3
                      Category         11/02   3/03    5/03     9/03
              PDO                       S       S       S        U
             Implement                  S       U       U        U
             Proj. Mgmt.                S       NR     NR       NR
              Financial Covenants      NR      NR      NR       NR
              Other Legal Covenants    NR       NR     NR       NR
              M&E                      NR       NR     NR       NR




                                              - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Indicator/Matrix                                      Latest Status



Prior to Board Presentation


1. Government approval of a 3 year plan to
strengthen capacity in poverty monitoring and         Done. A 3 year plan for the strengthening of

evaluation which includes:                            poverty monitoring and evaluation was prepared
                                                      with substantial inputs from various Government
                                                      agencies and adopted in May 2003.

(i) assignment of responsibility for collection of

-         Survey data to DOS                          Done

-         Program data, including at local level, to
appropriate line ministries
-         Budget data, including at local level, to
MOF
(ii) improving the usefulness of existing survey data
including the HBS through                             Done

-         improvements in the questionnaire,
particularly in social policy areas, in consultation
with key line ministries
-         Revision and update of the sampling frame
of the HBS
-         Making the survey data available to the
public
(iii) Creation of a users group that would include
line ministries, DOS, MOF, as well as
non-governmental organizations to design and          Done
assess poverty relevant sectoral policies.

2. Eliminate all public sector financial support for Done. Amendments to Law on Tobacco and Tobacco
the wine and tobacco sectors by, (i) issuing a       Products and to the Law on Vineyards and Wine
Government Decree which stipulates measures for      were published in Monitorul Oficial (MO), law#
the elimination of all public sector financial       1037-XV, May 3, 2002. However, in 2003 the
support, including investments, loans and credits,   Government re-established for a while the
and subsidies, related to raw material production,   subventions for vineyards and wineries.
processing and trade in the tobacco and winery
sectors, beginning with enactment of the 2003
Budget and thereafter, and/or modification or
elimination of any other related existing
mechanisms; and (ii) enacting legislative
amendments to eliminate earmarking of all tax
revenues to the wine and tobacco sectors, including
those specified in Art. 18(2) of the Law on Tobacco
and Tobacco Products (No. 386-XV) and Art. 22 of
the Law on Vineyards and Wine (No. 1166-XIV).




                                                      - 27 -

Indicator/Matrix                                      Latest Status

3. Enactment of amendments to the Law on the          Done. The Law amending the Law on Court of
Court of Accounts (CoA), which limits CoA audits      Accounts published in MO, #1063-XV, May 17,
to use of public funds.                               2002

4. Eliminate double VAT on fixed assets brought in Done The Law amending the Title III of the Fiscal
as statutory capital of enterprises.                  Code was published in MO, law #1035-XV, May 3,
                                                      2002

5. Government to adhere to the Memorandum of          Satisfactory progress.
Understanding on Agriculture

6. Enactment of the necessary amendments, as          Done. The law amending the Individual Power
stipulated in the agreed privatization plan to the    Privatization Law was published in MO, law
Individual Power Privatization Law, the Energy        #1064-XV, May 17, 2002
Sector Debt Restructuring Law, and other laws as
necessary to enable successful implementation of the
Privatization Plan of the energy sector.

7. Write-offs of State share-holdings in privatized   Done. The Government Decree on write-offs of State
enterprises where such shares represent 10% or less share-holdings was published in MO, Decree # 620,
of the total shares outstanding and the book value of May 16, 2002. We are trying to find out whether the
state-held equity is USD50,000 equivalent or less.    decree was fully implemented or not.

8. In order to de-monopolize VoIP telephony,          Done. The law amending the Law on
issuance of a Government Decree by April 1, 2002      Telecommunications was published in MO, law
(i) specifying the necessary amendments to the        #1134-XV, June 14, 2002 (after the Board
legal and regulatory framework, including             actually).
normative acts, required to de-monopolize VoIP
and committing the Government to submit by the
earliest possible date, as prescribed by
Parliamentary and administrative procedures, these
amendments to the Parliament; and (ii) specifying
measures to be undertaken by the Government and
Moldtelecom, effective upon issuance of the decree,
for the competitive provision of VoIP (for example
through concessions or otherwise) pending
enactment of the amending legislation.




                                                       - 28 -

Indicator/Matrix                                      Latest Status

Prior to Second Tranche

1. Implementation of poverty monitoring and           Partially  done.     Satisfactory   progress.  HBS
evaluation program including improvements in          available on the DSS website. Remaining issues:
questionnaire and update of sample for HBS and its    (a) full implementation of the plans for improving
dissemination to public.                              the  database;   (b)   building    capacity  among
                                                      stakeholders for utilizing the survey for policy
                                                      analysis; (c) wider consultation and consensus
                                                      building on poverty methodology

2. Government approval of a time bound Hospital
Restructuring Plan for further elimination of excess Done. The Order of Ministry of Health on "The plan

capacity in Chisinau Municipality Hospital and       and program of actions for restructuring of hospital

Republican Hospitals.                                service in Chisinau Municipality and organization of
                                                     specialized medical centers for 2003 ­ 2012" was
                                                     published in MO, order #15, January 27, 2003.

3. Enactment of amendments to the 1998 pension
law "On the State Social Security Pension", which    Done

includes:                                            Amendments to the law "On the State Social Security
                                                     Pension" on integration of pension privileges
- Integration of pension privileges into the general published in MO, law #358-XV, July 31, 2003
  pension law with gradual withdrawal of elements
  inconsistent with the general pension law          Amendments to the law "On the State Social Security
- Specification of a clear financially viable        Pension" on indexation mechanism was published in
indexation mechanism with which to determine all     MO, law #146-XV, March 27, 2003
future pension increases
4. Full implementation of measures to eliminate all
public sector financial support, including            Partially Done. Government passed a decree in

investments, loans and credits, and subsidies,        January 2004 to establish an extra-budgetary fund

related to raw material production, processing and    provide a subsidy to grape cultivation.

trade in the tobacco and winery sectors, beginning
with enactment of the 2003 Budget and thereafter,
and/or modification or elimination of any other
related existing mechanisms.


5. Reorganization of the Ministry of Finance's
internal audit system so as to ensure increased
independence and capacity.
                                                      Partially done. Internal audit system reorganized in
                                                      May 2002, but it did not result in increased
                                                      independence and capacity.




                                                      - 29 -

Indicator/Matrix                                        Latest Status

6. Enactment of a new market oriented Civil Code        Done. The Civil Code was published in MO, law #
(to take effect January 1, 2003).                       1107-XV, June 6, 2002, but was only enacted in
                                                        June 2003 following the adoption of the procedural
                                                        code.

7. Government to adhere to the Memorandum of
Understanding on Agriculture.                          Satisfactory progress. A number of proposals
                                                       regarding government intervention in the land
                                                       consolidation process have the potential to undermine
                                                       this condition.

8. Simplify and streamline auctions and tenders: (i)
eliminate reserve prices for properties to be          Done. The procedure was simplified. 3 Govt.

auctioned at the third auction, (ii) eliminate barriersDecisions amended in May 2003.

to sale at a single English or Dutch auction to the
highest bidder, (iii) in tenders, except in special
cases, as determined by an independent financial
advisor transparently selected through an
internationally competitive process for each tender,
eliminate investment pledges and requirements, and
(iv) where the Government is shareholder/creditor, it
will act to initiate liquidation proceedings for
properties that have not been sold after three
auctions.

9. Full implementation of the agreed phases of the     Partially done. The first phase was implemented on
tariff re-balancing plan.                              February 1, 2003. The second, on February 1, 2004.
                                                       Law on Veterans rolled back elements of the first
                                                       phase of rebalancing.

10. Satisfactory progress in the privatization of all  Partially done. The investor's conference was held,
remaining state-owned wineries listed in the           however there was no satisfactory progresses in the
Privatization Program with the exception of the        privatization of all remaining stat-owned wineries
Onoteca of Cricova:                                    listed in the program.

-With assistance of the financial advisor, hold an
investors' conference in Moldova for interested and
potentially interested strategic investors.
-Prepare detailed bidding documents for the sale of
winery properties

Prior to Third Tranche

1. Government to approve an education reform            Partially done. Delays in the design of an
policy strategy to address emerging inequities in       information base to support the future
the system, including (a) drop out of poor children     rationalization of the system.
from basic education (b) higher education selection
and financial support mechanisms to ensure access
of poor students

2. Government to implement the agreed stages of         Partially done. (CFAA action plan).
the CFAA's action plan




                                                         - 30 -

Indicator/Matrix                                        Latest Status
3. Government to complete a second "Cost of              Partially done. The second "Cost of Doing
Doing Business" survey, and development of a             Business" survey was completed but its findings
policy program to implement findings; the findings       were not published.
of the survey to be published


Government to adopt reform of the business
inspection system to reduce impediments to
business activity through creation of stronger           Partially done. The Ministry of Economy carried

checks and balances and increased transparency,          out a survey with the assistance of BIZPRO. The

including modification of the enterprise inspection      law on Inspection activity was drafted by the

log requirement and establishment of a publicly          Government in February 2004.

accessible centralized registry of enterprise
inspections.

4. Government to adhere to the Memorandum of            Satisfactory progress.

Understanding on Agriculture.

5. Elimination of barriers (plot divisibility and price Done. Changes to the Law on Normative Price of
rigidity) to sale of land associated with enterprises   Land was made in 2002 to reduce the coefficient.

6. Government will offer for sale through
international tender at least 33% of the total book     Partially done.     Only 3 out of the agreed 10

value of the existing state wineries to achieve         wineries were privatized.

majority private ownership of a number of wineries.




                                                         - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                       Estimate     Estimate /a      Appraisal
             Project Cost By Component                US$ million   US$ million
BOP/Budget Support                                             30.0           10.0       33%

Total Costs                                                    30.0           10.0       33%

Total Financing Required                                  30.0                10.0      100%




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


Expenditure Category           ICB       Procurement   Method        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                            NCB           Other /a
1. BOP/Budget Support                                      30.0                     30.0
   Total Costs                                             30.0                     30.0
    Total Financed by IDA                                  30.0                     30.0
/a Or SDR8.1 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

   Expenditure Category         ICB      Procurement Method          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                            NCB        Other /b
1. BOP/Budget Support                                      10.0                     10.0
Total Costs                                                10.0                     10.0
Total Financed by IDA                                      10.0                     10.0
/b Or SDR 8.1 million.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

   Component           Appraisal Estimate             Actual        Percentage of Appraisal /a

                     IDA     Govt.    CoF.     IDA     Govt.   CoF.  IDA     Govt      CoF.
 BOP/Budget          30.0                      10.0                  33.0
 Support




                                             - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               January 2002                   3    TTL, E, Tel                           S               S
                                              3    TTL, E, En                            S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               June 2002                      8    TTL, E, H, En, Ed, P, PSD,            S               S
                                                   Tel

 Supervision
               11/02                           4   TTL, E, En, H, Tel                    S               S
               03/03                           4   TTL, E, Ed, H. Tel                    U               S
               05/03                           3   TTL, E, PSD, Tel                      U               S
               09/03                           4   TTL, E, P, Tel                        U               U

 ICR
               02/04                          1     E                                    U               U

TTL-Task Team Leader, E-Economist, H-Health specialist, En-Energy specialist, Ed-Education specialist,
P-Privatization specialist, PSD-Private sector development specialist, Tel-Telecom specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  132.18                          412.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        54.54                          226.2
  Supervision                                  65.39                          253.2
  ICR                                           2.00                            25.0
  Total                                       254.11                          916.6




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of Moldova, May 24, 2002.

Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the IPRSP,
June 2002.

Program Document For a Proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit in the Amount of SDR
24.1 million (US$30 million equivalent) to the Republic of Moldova, June 26, 2002.

Development Credit Agreement for SAC3, June 26, 2002.

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)

IMF Staff Reports

Other Project Files, BTOs, A-Ms, etc.




                                              - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Moldova


Prime Minister's Office
Mr. Alexandru Cebotari, Advisor to the Prime Minister on World Bank/IMF relations

Department of Privatization
Ms. Ludmila Buzu, Deputy Head of Main Division on Privatization and Investment

ANTRI (Telecom Regulator)
Mr. Stanislav Gordea, Deputy Director
Mr. Petru Grecu, Deputy Director
Ms. Corina Bodiu, Internal Relations Consultant

Ministry of Finance
Ms. Mariana Durlesteanu, First Deputy of Finance

Ministry of Education
Ms. Ludmila Stepan, Director of General Education Project
Mr. Mihai Paiu, Head of Division for Forecasting, Information and Documentation

USAID
Mr. Mark Levinson, Deputy Head of Mission

Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
Ms. Anghelina Apostol, Deputy Minister

Ministry of Agriculture
Mr. Dmitri Todoroglo, Minister

Ministry of Energy
Mr. Iacob Timciuc, Minister

Ministry of Health
Mr. Andrei Gherman, Minister

Presidency
Mr. Oleg Reidman, Advisor to the President on Economic Issues

IMF
Mr. Edgardo Ruggiero

ANRE (Energy Sector Regulator)
Mr. Nicolae Triboi, Director




                                             - 38 -

Union Fenosa
Mr. Ignacio Ibarro, Chairman

World Bank ­ Moldova
Ms. Maya Sandu
Mr. Victor Burunsus
Ms. Viorica Strah
Ms. Elena Nikulina
Mr. Anatol Gobjila
Mr. Sandu Ghidirim
Mr. Alexei Ionascu




                                - 39 -

- 40 -

