Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7540-MD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
May 23, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective May 20, 2002)
Currency Unit = Leu
Leu I = US$ 0.074
US$ 1 = Leu 13.6
Government Fiscal Year
January I to December 31
ARIA        -       Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
ASF        -       Agricultural Support Fund
CAS        -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIS       -       Commonwealth of Independent States
CPRM         -       Communist Party of the Republic of Moldova
DMP         -       Debt Management Plan
EBRD         -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF        -       Extended Financing Facility
FSU        -       Former Soviet Union
FY        -       Fiscal Year
GDP        -       Gross Domestic Product
GTZ        -       German Technical Assistance Agency
IDA        -       International Development Association
IBRD        -       lnternational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC       -       International Financial Corporation
IMF        -       International Monetary Fund
INCON         -       Joint Stock Company - Agricultural Produce (Moldova)
JSC        -      Joint Stock Company
LDP        -       Letter of Development Policy
LIBOR        -       London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MIGA         -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MTC         -       Moldtelecom
NBM         -       National Bank of Moldova
PP        -      Privatization Plan
PRGF        -       Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PSD        -       Private Sector Development
PSRC        -       Public Sector Reform Credit
RAO Gazprom         -      Joint Stock Company - Natural Gas (Russia)
SDR        -       Special Drawing Rights
SGRF        -       State Grain Reserve Fund
SOE                State-Owned Enterprises
SSC                Strategic Studies Center
TACIS                Technical Assistance for the CIS (European Union)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger Grawe (ECC07)
Sector Director: Cheryl Gray (ECSPE)
Team Leader: Mark Davis / Harry Broadman (ECSPE)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT ANID RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTIERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOS]ED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .........................................................i
1. ECONOMIC AND POLITIC:AL CONTEXT .           ........................................................1
A.   Background .........................................................I
B.   Recent Economic Developments .........................................................2
C.   Medium Term Eonomic Outlook ..................................         .    .3
11. THE REFORM PROGRAMI ...................................6
A. Overview .........6
B.   Poverty Alleviation and Improved Social Service Delivery ......................................................7
C.   Improving the Business Climate .....................................................  18
111. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .....................................................         34
A.   Links to the CAS and other Bank Operations .34
B. Objectives, Rati(nale and Design .34
C. Proposed Condil ions under SAC III                  ..35
D. Benefits and Risks .36
E.   Collaboration with the IMF and Other Donors .38
IV. FINANCIAL AND FIDUC'IARY MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ................................................... 40
V. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ........................................................   41
VI. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT ........................................................  41
ANNEXES
Annex 1:      Macroeconoimic Indicators
Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators .............................................
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators ..................................
Table 3: External Financing .........
Table 4: Debt Sustainability Analysis .............................. ....................................
Table 5: Moldova at a Glance .....................................
Annex 2:      Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations.
Annex 3:      Timetable (of Key Processing Events and Staffing.
Annex 4:      Letter of Development Policy.
Annex 5:      Matrix of Core Policy Actions ..............................
Box 1:        Poverty in 'Moldova .............................................
Box 2:        Risks and Mitigation Measures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






MOLDOVA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Moldova
Arnount:                  SIDR 24.1 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Siandard IDA terms, payable in 40 years
Commitment Fee:           Slandard
Service Charge:           0.75 percent of the credit amount disbursed and outstanding.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed operation will support reforms within two broad agendas
to help ensure sustained growth in Moldova over the medium term: (i)
reforms to reduce poverty through improving monitoring and evaluation
oi- poverty reduction measures, improvement of the education system
arid the efficiency of health care delivery, and strengthening social
protection; and (ii) reforms to improve the business environment through
implementation of hard budget constraints and improvement of fiduciary
management, maintaining liberal market policies in the agriculture sector
arid further development of land and credit markets, securing the
financial viability of the power sector by completing change of
owvnership/management control of the power companies and assuring the
independence of the energy regulator, reducing administrative barriers to
business entry and exit, reforming the institutional framework and
procedures governing privatization, and the liberalization/privatization
ol'the telecom and winery sectors.
Benefits:                 The credit will provide budgetary support to help the Government
consolidate economic stabilization, bolster foreign reserves, and service
external debt.  The program supported by the Credit will lay the
foundation for sustainable resumption of growth, especially through a
focus on structural reform in key areas - agriculture, energy, reducing
barriers to new enterprise formation and telecom and winery
privatization.  At the same time the program   will engender
improvements in the public sector to help ensure that the benefits of the
stbuctural reforms are broadly received. Ensuring delivery of quality
social services to the broadest possible population, and establishing a
well-targeted social protection system are the most effective ways to
increase the inclusiveness of growth.
Risks:                    The operation has three major risks: (a) weak political consensus for
reform;  (b)  insufficient  implementation  capacity;  and  (c)
macroeconomic.
The Government is supported by a strong majority party in Parliament
with over 70 percent of the votes. However, while the Government
continues to enjoy the support of the President and Parliament, internal
disagreements within the majority party could weaken the Government's
mandate to implement the proposed program. These risks are mitigated



- ii -
through the front-loading of core reforms that require decisions by the
Government, the Parliament and the President as Board conditions, and
more generally through adopting a three tranche design with front-
loading of reforms and backloading of financing. These risks are also
mitigated through the continuing public dialogue, including through the
PRSP preparation process, to build support for reforms.
The Government's reform program is necessarily relatively broad in
coverage given the range of Moldova's pressing problems. Mindful that
the Government's reform program is potentially too ambitious for its
institutional capacity, the proposed SAC III focuses on the highest
priority reforms. Nonetheless, the Government's institutional capacity
may well still be stretched under SAC III implementation. To mitigate
this risk the Bank Group is providing Technical Assistance to the
Government in several SAC III-related areas and IDA is also actively
mobilizing and coordinating donor support through the PRSP process.
The Public Sector Reform program, currently under preparation, will
also help build stability, incentives and implementation capacity in
Moldova's public service.
The reform program supported by the proposed SAC III is designed to
lay the foundations for a sustained resumption of economic growth. But
there is a clear risk that early signs of growth may not continue, if reform
implementation is slow, or if Moldova suffers an exogenous shock
affecting production (for example bad weather) or income (for example
a deterioration in the terms of trade). Sustained economic decline could
weaken reformers in Government and erode public support for the
program. Moldova's loss of its predominant export market, its reliance
on imported energy inputs, and its existing debt service requirements
could all lead to lower growth prospects. To help mitigate these risks,
SAC III contains strong actions to improve the structural foundations for
sustained growth, for example through improvements in the business
environment. In addition, IDA will be closely monitoring in close
collaboration with the IMF the macroeconomic and structural program
of the Government to ensure it stays on track over a sustained period.
There is also enhanced international scrutiny in the context of the
recently launched international initiative for the CIS-7. IDA is working
with bilateral and multilateral partners to help mobilize sufficient
concessional resources to help Moldova manage its debt burden, and is
closely monitoring efforts in the Paris Club. A debt sustainability
analysis has been developed jointly with the IMF. IDA, the IMF and the
Government will continue to explore other avenues for Moldova
achieving long run debt sustainability.
Schedule of Disbursement:  SDR 8.1 million 1'V tranche - June 2002
SDR 8.0 million 2nd tranche - November/December 2002 (estimated)
SDR 8.0 million 3rd tranche - March/April 2003 (estimated)
Poverty Category:         Poverty Focused
Project ID Number:        MD-PE-P065 163
Map:                      IBRD 24285R3



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
1'0 THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
l'O THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) to the Republic of Moldova for SDR 24.1 million. The
proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years including a grace
period of 10 years. The Credit would be disbursed in three tranches: SDR 8.1 million equivalent
upon effectiveness of the credit, SDR 8.0 million equivalent upon satisfactory completion of
second tranche policy measures (expected November/December 2002), and SDR 8.0 million
equivalent upon satisfactory completion of third tranche policy measures (expected March/April
2003).
2.    The proposed SAC IL will support critically important areas of the Government's reform
agenda, thereby supporting the implementation of the first phase of the Government's Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) presented to the Board on December 19, 2000 (IDA-
SecM2000-695). SAC 'III would also complement the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility. In particular, the proposed SAC III will support reforms to:
* Reduce poverty and improve the effectiveness of the social protection system; and
* Improve the business climate.
I. ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONTEXT
A.    BACKGROUND
3.    Moldova's transition to a market economy has been difficult. It inherited an obsolete and
misaligned industrial sector, a land-locked territory, highly variable weather conditions and weak
institutions. In addition, it suffered external shocks, including a severe terms of trade
deterioration, which accompanied trade and price rationalization at the end of the Soviet era, a
Transnistrian separatist movement that increased Moldova's dependence on agriculture and
energy imports, and the regional financial crisis of 1998. At the beginning of the transition,
Moldova experienced a dranmatic decline in output, higher inflation, worsening public finances
and a deterioration of public service delivery as revenues plummeted while the state struggled to
maintain its role as a care-taker.
4.    Moldova made relatively good early progress in market, price and foreign exchange
liberalization. It was among the first CIS countries to achieve financial stability, and by 1996
had embarked on a deeper structural reform agenda. However, progress on this agenda has been
mixed. Relatively good progress has been made in fiscal consolidation, pension reform,
agricultural policy, land privatization and energy sector reform, but until recently it was not
sufficient to generate a sustained supply response. While consecutive privatization programs
have significantly divested state-owned enterprises, many -viable enterprises were kept in state
control, limited steps have been taken to encourage improved corporate governance among
privatized enterprises, and a generally poor business climate has persisted. On the fiscal front,
while a consolidation has been achieved, deep structural reform of social service delivery has not.



- 2 -
Many of these problems are attributable to the political instability which has resulted in stop and
go policy implementation.
5.    Despite delays due to political instability, previous governments were ultimately
successful in implementing the economic reform programs supported by SAL II and SAC. Since
at least 1998, debate surrounding these programs was near the core of the political discourse
which culminated in amendments to Moldova's constitution. In July 2000, Moldova changed to
a Parliamentary form of Government and the President is now elected by Parliament.
Parliamentary elections held in February 2001 resulted in a decisive victory for the Communist
Party of the Republic of Moldova (CPRM) which won a 70 percent majority of seats. The new
Parliament elected the CPRM leader, Vladimir Voronin, as President and he appointed Vasile
Tarlev, a non-party businessman, as Prime Minister. Economic Ministers were retained from the
previous largely technocratic Government. CPRM members hold key ministries, including
agriculture, privatization, and the social sectors.
6.    Despite the legacy from early years of Moldova's transition and hardships resulting from
the 1998 regional crisis, Moldova has pursued prudent macroeconomic policies and structural
reforms. Moldova experienced its first year of economic growth (1.7 percent) in 1997.
However, the prospects for continued growth evaporated as the country was hit by the Russian
financial crisis. A sharp devaluation of the leu in 1998 worsened the terms of trade and increased
public debt and debt service. Inflation accelerated as energy prices increased. Output declined
sharply and as a result, public revenues shrank. This, combined with limited external financing
forced the Govermnent to significantly cut public spending. While the crisis contributed to
increased social hardship and poverty, it was cathartic for the State. Between February 1999 and
February 2001, just prior to the election, a significant number of reforms were implemented.
These included reform of the energy sector (e.g., significant debt restructuring, privatization of
Moldovagas, and the sale of two thirds of the power distribution companies to a strategic foreign
investor, and imposition of hard budget constraints on budgetary institutions and enterprises);
increased cash collection of taxes; prudent fiscal management through rationalization of public
expenditures, pension reform and clearance of pension arrears; continued progress in agricultural
policy and farm privatization; and good progress in privatization of other state enterprises, joint
stock companies and land under enterprises.
7.    The remaining structural reform agenda is considerable and the current Government is
committed to working closely with its international partners, especially the World Bank Group
and the IMF, to implement its economic and social reform program.
B.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
8.    Moldova's economic performance during the past two years has been positive, benefiting
from favorable external factors, prudent fiscal and monetary policies, and structural reforms in
the agricultural and energy sectors. Increased investment and demand for exports (especially
from Russia) contributed to an acceleration of GDP growth from -3.4 percent in 1999 to 2.1 and
6.1 percent, respectively, in 2000-01. Prudent management of financial policies combined with
good agricultural output (despite a severe drought and ice storm) lowered pressure on the general
price level. Consequently, end-year inflation fell from 44 percent in 1999 to a single digit rate of
6.4 percent in 2001. This combined with increased workers' remittances and direct investments
helped stabilize the exchange rate which stood at 36 percent of its 1997 level. The leu
depreciated by 3.7 percent in real terms during 2000-2001.



- 3 -
9.    The current account balance has stabilized, although its vulnerability to external shocks
remains high as the economy is highly dependent on a few export commodities and markets and
on energy imports. Aided by the real exchange rate depreciation combined with strong foreign
demand for exports and a relatively good harvest in 2001, merchandise exports increased,
especially agricultural and manufacturing products (to 52 percent of GDP), while imports
declined to 73 percent of GDP in the same year. This, together with continued inflows from
workers' remittance, lowered the current account deficit to 8.0 percent of GDP in 2001. Due to
limited foreign financing, the deficit was financed by direct foreign investment.  Gross
international reserves in 2001 increased to US$227 million, equivalent to 2.3 months of imports
of goods and services.
10.   Management of financial policies has remained relatively good, although there was
slippage in some areas of fiscal policy as arrears on external debt service increased due to lower
tax collection combined with limited foreign financing and lowered privatization revenue. In
light of these developments, the Government further cut expenditures, and as a result, the overall
cash fiscal deficit (including project loan spending) fell to 0.5 percent of GDP in 2001 (from 2.9
percent of GDP in 2000), while new on debt service to private creditors accumulated. The deficit
was financed by an increase in net domestic credit from the Central Bank. Domestic real interest
rates continued to decline further due to a reduction in the public sector's borrowing requirement
from the domestic credit market in line with the lower fiscal deficit and due to prudent monetary
policy. This contributed to an expansion of commercial banks' credit to the private sector during
this period.
11.   External Indebtedness. The 1998 regional financial crisis significantly exacerbated
Moldova's external indebtedness. Total external debt increased from virtually zero at the
beginning of the 1990s to over US$1.2 billion (or 83 percent of GDP) at end-2001, of which 77
percent was public and publicly guaranteed debt. Additionally, there remains outstanding
external arrears on energy imports to foreign suppliers (mostly Gazprom) estimated at US$298
million (20 percent of GDP). About 60 percent of total public and publicly guarantee debt is
owed to multilateral institutions including the IMF, the World Bank, and the EBRD. About 27
percent is owed to private creditors, including the outstanding balance from a US$90 million
Eurobond issued in 1997 with a bullet repayment in June 2002, US$90 million securities issued
to Gazprom of Russia, and a number of direct and publicly guaranteed credits from foreign
banks. The remaining public and publicly guaranteed debt (13 percent of total) is owed to
bilateral creditors. Private non-guaranteed debt accounted for 22 percent of total external debt
stock in 2001, which has incireased in recent years due to increased private sector borrowing from
foreign credit markets. A relatively small part of the current government debt portfolio was
contracted on concessional terms.
C. MEDIUM TERM ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
12.   Moldova's growth now seems sustainable. Positive developments during the 2000-01
period were the results of progress in fiscal consolidation, sustained output through adverse
weather conditions (severe drought and ice storm), reduced energy consumption through energy
sector restructuring, and export growth in sectors such as textiles, light industry, manufacturing,
wine-making, communications and other services. At the same time, inflation has been brought
down significantly relative to 1998 despite higher import costs; the public has regained
confidence in the leu and this has contributed to exchange rate stabilization; and tax revenue
collection remains stable at around 25 percent of official GDP. Real interest rates have begun to



-4 -
decline, thereby increasing the demand for credit from the private sector. These are promising
trends which could continue to generate higher growth and therefore additional resources to
address Moldova's social and capital investment needs over the medium term.
13.   Growth Prospects. The macroeconomic framework underpinning the proposed SAC III
envisages that sustainable economic growth in Moldova is achieved through the maintenance of
prudent financial policies aimed at lowering inflation and maintaining a competitive exchange
rate, and continued deepening of structural reforms to improve the business environment and
investment climate. These factors would provide the basis for a continued rebound of GDP
growth driven by investment and exports. The current scenario assumes moderate growth
averaging 5 percent per annum during the 2003-2005 period, with 2002 slightly lower at 4.8
percent due to a slowdown in the world economy and Moldova's exceptionally high debt
servicing requirements. Inflation is expected to slowly increase toward the end of 2002 and will
remain at around 8 percent in 2003 due to expansionary fiscal and monetary policies associated
with increased public employees' wage and pensions and an increase in monetary financing of
the fiscal deficit. Thereafter, inflation is projected to decline and stabilize at around 6 percent
over the medium-term as monetary policy is expected to tighten somewhat and central bank
credit to the government will be limited to smoothing cash flow fluctuations. The real exchange
rate is projected to appreciate slightly by 0.5 percent during 2003, before depreciating by 1.5
percent by end-2005. More details on macroeconomic projections over the 2002-05 period are
provided in Annex 1.
14.   External Position and Financing Gap. Moldova faces a financial liquidity shortfall
over the next few years but the situation is expected to improve over the medium-term. In 2002,
export growth is expected to slow down due to weak demand for exports, while imports remain
strong as a result of increased income and investment. The trade deficit is expected to widen but
will be partially offset by an increase in workers' remittances and foreign transfers. The current
account deficit is projected to decline slightly to 7.4 percent of GDP. 2002 will be a difficult
year as a bullet repayment of the Eurobond falls due in June. Meanwhile, direct foreign
investment will likely be lower due to the need to align the privatization of Moldtelecom with an
improvement in the world's telecommunication sector. This will generate a financing gap
estimated at about US$87 million - in the absence of IDA's adjustment operation (SAC III) and
disbursement of the IMF's PRGF. However, this gap is envisaged to be fully financed if the
Government successfully reschedules its debts with bilateral and private creditors, restructures
the remaining Eurobond, secures a disbursement under the Fund's PRGF, and disbursement takes
place under SAC III.
15.   Over the medium-term, the external balance is projected to improve as the current
account deficit declines to 6.0 percent of GDP by 2005 (due to a reduction in the resource
balance associated with an increase in exports relative to imports). The Government's
commitment to deepening structural reforms will encourage strong inflows associated with direct
foreign investment and net medium and long-term credit, especially from the private sector to
finance the current account deficit. The external financing gap for 2003-04 will be smaller,
averaging US$42 million (Annex 1). The stock of gross international reserves is projected to
increase to 3.1 months of imports of goods and services by 2005.
16.   Fiscal Policy. To meet high external debt service obligations, including reduction of
domestic expenditure arrears and external arrears on debt service, and to ensure sufficient



- 5 -
financing of social sectors, fiscal policy will aim to maintain a primary surplus at around 1.5
percent of GDP over the medium-term. This would be achieved through hardening budget
constraints by eliminating subsidies to productive sectors, further strengthening tax and customs
administration, rationalizing social expenditure in the context of a strengthened medium-term
expenditure framework, and better execution and monitoring of local government budgets.
Financial programming of the social sector reform program calls for equal or increased
allocations for health and education as efficiency improves, and better targeting of resources
available for direct social assistance. In 2002, the overall cash fiscal deficit (including project
loan spending) is projected to increase to 3.0 percent of GDP because of an increase in
expenditures on pension and salaries, a gradual clearance of domestic arrears, and high interest
payments. The deficit will be financed by privatization revenues, credit from the Central Bank,
and foreign sources. Thereafter, improved revenue performance, continued strong but realistic
fiscal consolidation, and gradually lower interest payments after 2002 are expected to lower the
deficit to 1.3 percent by 2005. This will contribute to the declining trend of real interest rates and
increased credit flows to the private sector.
17.   Debt Sustainability Analysis. Moldova's ability to sustain and strengthen its economic
growth over the medium term will strongly depend on the resolution of the external debt
problem. A large share of non-concessional debt contracted throughout the 1990s has begun to
put pressure on the government budget and the balance of payments. Over the past few years, the
Government of Moldova has successfully reached debt rescheduling agreements with bilateral
(Russia) and commercial creditors (mainly German banks). This has contributed to clearance of
budgetary arrears and slightly reduced some pressure on the balance of payments and the budget;
however, they did not provide long-term relief as most of the rescheduling agreements are based
on non-concessional terms.
18.   Under the current scenario, Moldova's debt sustainability is projected to improve steadily
to reach manageable levels over the long-term horizon. Key indicators for the debt sustainability
analysis, which assumes a rescheduling of the Eurobond balance and the Gazprom promissory
notes, are provided in Annex 1. The NPV of total external debt to GDP and to exports of goods
and services are projected to reach satisfactory levels by 2010, declining to 36 percent and 65
percent, respectively. Total eKternal debt service to exports of goods and services is expected to
decline to 11 percent by 2011. For fiscal sustainability, the NPV of public and publicly
guaranteed debt to central government revenue would decline sharply to 96 percent in 2010
(from a peak of 320 percent in 2002) and total debt service of public and publicly guaranteed
debt is expected to decline to about 19 percent of central government revenues by 2010.
However, both fiscal and external liquidity will be significantly constrained over the short-term.
Total external debt service to exports of goods and services will remain above 20 percent during
2002-2005 while debt services of public and publicly guaranteed debt will begin declining below
30 percent of central government revenue only in 2006.
19.   Moldova's ability to achieve a sustainable debt situation will be constrained and it will
take a longer period of time should it experience external shocks, adverse weather conditions, or
lower than expected private sector contribution. A hypothetical low case that assumes lower
GDP growth due to weak exports and investment and a sharp depreciation of the exchange rate
provides a less optimistic picture of Moldova's debt situation. Total debt service to exports of
goods and services ratio will stay over 20 percent until 2006. In terms of the fiscal position, debt
servicing will exercise strong pressure on the budget, thus, demanding for more fiscal resources



- 6 -
envisaged for the next 3-4 years. Debt service will absorb on average 42 percent of central
govermment revenues over the 2003-05 period.
20.   Addressing the Debt Burden. The above projected macroeconomic scenario cannot be
achieved without addressing Moldova's liquidity crisis over the 2002-2005 period. The
authorities' strategy to address the high debt burden consists of the following elements: (i)
continuation of tight fiscal policies aimed at maintaining a primary budget surplus of about 1'/2
percent of GDP; (ii) earmarking privatization proceeds (including for Moldtelecom) for servicing
or retiring domestic and external public debt and clearing government wage arrears; (iii)
refraining from new borrowing on non-concessional terms and issuing guarantees on non-
concessional terms for commercial ventures, whether state- or privately-owned; (iv) where
possible, using market-based methods to reduce debt; (v) improving the management of external
and domestic public debt; and (iv) approaching creditors for debt restructuring. The Government
is currently seeking to restructure its external debt with bilateral and private creditors.
II. THE REFORM PROGRAM
A.    OVERVIEW
21.   After a decade of deteriorating economic performance, Moldova has successfully
stabilized the economy and launched structural reforms to stimulate growth, and begun the
process of establishing an effective social protection system. While the Government has made
notable progress in the macroeconomic and structural reform process in the last two years, a
significant agenda reform remains. Today, Moldova is the poorest nation in Europe, having
started out at independence as a middle-income country. With economic recovery only in its
second year, poverty is still very high. Simultaneously, Moldova has become one of the region's
most heavily indebted countries. Moldova's leadership is committed to identifying and
implementing a program to sustain growth and reduce poverty. With the assistance of IDA and
the IMF, the Government has developed a reform program as a means to achieve these
objectives.
22.   The program supported by the proposed SAC III will focus on reforms in two areas:
(i)   actions to reduce poverty and strengthen social protection through improving the
monitoring, analysis and evaluation of poverty and poverty-reduction measures;
reforming the education system; enhancing the efficiency of health care delivery; and
strengthening the system for social assistance and pensions; and
(ii)  reforms to improve the business environment through implementing stronger
fiscal discipline and fiduciary management; improving the administrative framework to
facilitate new business development; maintaining liberal market policies in the agriculture
sector and further developing land markets; competitively restructuring the energy sector;
and reforming the institutional framework and procedures governing privatization,
including the liberalization/privatization of the telecom and winery sectors.
23.   The overall reform program supported by the proposed SAC III is described in detail in
the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP), signed by the Prime Minister on May
10, 2002, and reproduced in Annex 4 of this Report. All the tranche conditionalities of the



- 7 -
program, including agreed SAC III measures undertaken prior to submission of this Report to the
Association's Board, are outlined in the Matrix of Core Policy Actions contained in Annex 5 of
this Report. The Matrix of Core Policy Actions also outlines key reform measures that the
Moldovan authorities have implemented since the last SAC.
B.     POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND IMPROVED SOCIAL SERVICE DELIVERY
24.    Moldova's GDP per capita in 2001 was about US$ 400, or about one half of the 1995
figure, which is significantly below the average for CIS and Central European countries. In
1999, approximately 55% of Moldovans lived on less than $2.15 per day.] Poverty incidence
increased by about 20 percentage points between 1997 and 2000, and since then, appears to have
leveled off or even fallen slightly. Income inequality is high as are the disparities between large
cities and the rest of the cotutry (Box 1). Despite recent improvements in health status that
followed a decline in the early years of the transition, outcomes compare poorly with European
averages and with other low income CIS countries. There is an emerging threat of communicable
diseases, particularly TB and AIDS. Similarly, and despite data deficiencies, there has been a
deterioration in educational achievements. Moreover, serious inequities are emerging in health
and educational outcomes and in access to social services by different segments of the
population.
BOX 1: POVERTY IN MOLDOVA
Poverty has increased substantially in Moldova during the transition and today Moldova is one of the poorest
transition countries in Europe and Central Asia. A recent Bank study shows that the poverty rate in Moldova
increased from about 47 percent in 1997 to about 68 percent in 2000 with the sharpest increases immediately after
the Russian crisis. Along with the recovery in growth, the increase in poverty began to level off at the beginning of
2000 and by the end of 2000, the head count index declined. However, poverty in Moldova remains deep, with the
shortfall between the average expenditures of the poor and the poverty line at about 37 to 40%. Income inequality is
also high, with a gini coefficient of about 0.42 in 1999.
The profile of poverty is not dissimnilar to that in other countries in the region. In 1997-2000, poverty rates were
highest for agricultural workers, households living outside of the large cities (other towns and rural areas), and
households with 2 or more children They were lowest for households where the head had higher education, those
living in large cities, and in single person households or households with no children. Generally, pensioners are not
at an especially high risk of being poor. Reflecting poverty rates but also their higher share in the population, the
poor were predominantly the rural households, households where the heads had secondary education and were non-
elderly, and hired workers. While these groups constituted the largest share of the poor in all four years and also
contributed to most of the increase in poverty over the four years, the poverty risks of other groups, especially
households living in large cities anid those whose heads had higher education increased significantly between 1997
and 2000.
25.    Given these developments, the Government has emphasized poverty alleviation as one of
its main policy objective. On April 21, 2002, the Government approved an updated Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP) that emphasizes a three-pillar strategy: (i) sustainable and
inclusive economic growth, (ii) improved human development through better delivery of social
services, and (iii) strengthened and better targeted social protection. This reinstates the new
IIn 1996 purchasing power parity.



- 8 -
Government's commitment to the PRSP process. The Government has extended the completion
date of the full PRSP to March 2003 to ensure good quality of the participatory process.
26.   The proposed SAC III builds on earlier reform efforts and extends the reforms in support
of all three pillars that are at the foundation of the Government's I-PRSP. At the same time, it
supports the Government's plan to improve its capacity to monitor and analyze poverty and to
design policies aimed at improving the living standards of the poor. On the one hand, the
continuation of structural reforms toward a market economy are crucial to stimulate and sustain
higher growth and to reduce absolute poverty. In view of the predominance of the rural
population among the poor, moving ahead with the reforms to stimulate agricultural growth,
through continued liberalization of the agricultural sector, are key. Improved access to land and
credit markets, particularly in the rural areas, would enable to poor to take advantage of market
opportunities. The improvements in the overall business environment are essential to facilitating
restructuring and generating productive employment. Of particular importance is the
improvement in the business environment for small and medium enterprises which can serve as
an important engine for job growth, particularly among the poor.
27.   Higher incomes and increased resources from growth will improve the ability of
individuals to invest in their human capital in the future. To prevent further erosion of the
human capital stock, particularly among the poor, however, the operation supports the continued
restructuring of the health and education sectors to improve their efficiency and quality. Finally,
the operation supports the strengthening of the social protection system by supporting continued
reform of the pension system to improve its efficiency and fiscal sustainability while reducing
people's vulnerability to old age, and ensuring that social assistance programs and utility
subsidies are well targeted to the poorest and assist them in meeting immediate consumption
needs while protecting their accumulation of human, physical and social assets.
B.1. Poverty Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation
Conte;xt
28.   Several institutions have historically been involved in the collection and analysis of
information on living standards in Moldova. These include the line ministries which collect
administrative data from their institutions, the Department of Statistics and Sociological
Research (DSS) which has been collecting survey data from households and enterprises
(including agricultural surveys), and the Ministry of Finance which collects data related to
budgetary expenditures on different social programs.
29.   Although each institution prepares regular publications and some limited analysis, there
are several problems that impede the use and usefulness of these data in policy analysis and
deliberations and particularly in the design of poverty focused policies. First, the Government
lacks the capacity needed to evaluate the available information to strengthen the strategic
orientation of its overall policy agenda. There is little internal expertise and inter-agency
coordination within the Government to undertake the requisite analysis and to, in turn, feed back
into improving the relevance of the data.



- 9 -
30.   The lack of coordinat:ion between institutions within the Government is particularly
problematic in the case of measurement of poverty indicators. No clear agency has been assigned
the responsibility for developing the methodology for poverty measurement  A poverty
monitoring unit has been established in the Ministry of Economy, with some financing from
UNDP. This represents a needed initiative to start inter-agency coordination on poverty issues.
However, because the group was set up in addition to other groups that were already involved in
poverty measurement, and because roles and responsibilities were not clarified, the extent and
nature of inter-agency collaboration is less than desired. As a result, different agencies (Ministry
of Economy, Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, and the DSS) are developing their own
measures of consumption based welfare for individuals and households and different poverty
lines are in use. Poverty estinmates in-country, therefore, vary widely. The lack of consensus on
methodology complicates the iidentification of the poor, the monitoring of poverty, the analysis of
impacts of policies on the poor, and the development and design of policies targeted at the poor.
31.   There is need to improve the quality and the relevance of existing data sources.
Available administrative data are not of uniform reliability or relevance and often cover only the
people receiving services whilte excluding those who miss out. There is also need to ensure that
the data are available at the needed levels of disaggregation by programs and geographical
location. The DSS household surveys (HBS, LFS) also need to be improved in various ways.
The sample lists from which they are drawn are seriously outdated and are in need of
replacement. In view of the major demographic changes since the previous census, a new census
should be used for sample refreshment. Although plans were underway to implement a new
census in 2002, it has now been delayed to April 2003. The existing household data also do not
adequately cover key areas (e.g. health care utilization, labor market outcomes among the poor,
coverage of different social protection programs, etc.). Improvement of the quality and relevance
of existing data once again calls for improved coordination between agencies and departments
involved in the collection of- data and policy making units in linie ministries. There is also
limited use of the available data outside the Government which limits the availability of new
analyses by innovative researchers that could be useful to policymakers. It further limits
feedback that could improve the quality and relevance of the data. There is also limited
meaningful exchange with the public or with groups outside the Government on the progress on
poverty outcomes and on the success, or lack thereof, of policies aimed at improving living
standards.
Reform Objectives and SAC irII Measures
32.   The objective of this component of the SAC III program is therefore to (i) strengthen
capacity in the monitoring, analysis and evaluation of policies aimed at improving living
standards, both inside and outside the government (ii) to facilitate inter-agency coordination in
this area while clarifying roles and responsibilities, (iii) to improve the quality of the information
base to monitor changes in poverty and the impact of policies on living standards, and (iv) to
improve the exchange of information and consultation on poverty outcomes and policies with the
public or groups outside of the Government, including regular dissemination of poverty
indicators and data.
33.   In recognition of the importance of this component to monitoring progress on the current
policy agenda and to the futuwe design of policies, the Government is preparing and has approved
a three year plan (to be implemented between June 2002 and May 2005) to strengthen capacity in



- 10-
poverty monitoring and analysis. The plan identifies a set of core poverty indicators to measure
the income and non-income dimensions of poverty. It specifies the data sources for the identified
indicators, and, based on an evaluation of their adequacy, outlines steps to be taken to improve
the system of data collected (households and other surveys, administrative data, etc.). It
establishes the working groups and identifies the institutions, within and outside the
Government, involved in the implementation of the plan with specification of roles and
responsibilities. It clarifies the steps to be taken and the process to be followed in the
development and adoption of the methodology for poverty analysis. It outlines a dissemination
strategy for the poverty indicators as well as for raw data used in analysis.
34.   The plan is accompanied by a financing plan which specifies the costs associated with
each step to strengthen capacity and improve the information base, and the associated financing
plan. The Government's own budget is an important source of financing for this plan. Several
donors have also expressed interest and some (DfiD, UNDP) have made funds available to
support the Government's poverty monitoring and analysis efforts. The Government intends to
use this plan to ensure that the most critical needs in strengthening its poverty monitoring efforts,
over the medium term period, are fully financed.
35.   To improve inter-agency collaboration, the plan assigns clear responsibility to ministries
and agencies within the Government. It also specifies a consultative group to include
representation from key groups outside the Government. The institutions and working groups
coincide closely with those involved in the preparation and implementation of the PRSP. The
reform program particularly emphasizes the collaborative development of and consensus on the
methodology for consumption based poverty and the establishment of a poverty line. The
collaboration and consensus will be between all groups within the Government involved in the
development and implementation of sectoral poverty reduction strategies as well as in the
collection of the poverty monitoring data, and will include line ministries (such as agriculture,
health, education, labor and social protection), the DSS, as well as the core central ministries
(MOF, MOE). Key groups outside the Government, including donors and local researchers will
also be consulted on this methodology. Once such a methodology, consistent with international
practice, is developed, it will be approved by the Government, by the fourth quarter of 2002, and
will become the basis of regular poverty monitoring.
36.   To improve the quality of the data, and in particular, the quality and relevance of the
information from the household surveys, the reform program emphasizes the implementation of
(i) a new population census (ii) urgent improvement of the sample for the household surveys
based on sound technical recommendations; (iii) improvement in the information on access to
health care and education as well as to social protection programs through piloting and full
introduction of revised modules. The plan also incorporates regular information needs
assessments to continuously increase and improve the information available to policymakers as
well as its quality.
37.   To facilitate the sharing of information on poverty outcomes with the public and civil
society, the reform program supports the regular dissemination of key poverty indicators. The
Government has also undertaken to make unit record data available to the public in order to
facilitate independent policy relevant analysis and to obtain further feedback on the quality of the
data.



- 11 -
B. 2. Improved Social Service Delivery: Education Reform
Context
38.   Like other countries of the Former Soviet Union, Moldova inherited generally favorable
human capital indicators. Like many of these countries, with increase in poverty and the fiscal
crisis during transition, Moldova has seen an erosion in its human capital stock. Despite data
deficiencies, as measured by enrollment rates, Moldova is building less human capital than at the
time of transition. Excluding pre-school, by 1999/2000, the years of education that the average
five year old Moldovan child could expect to complete had declined by almost three years
relative to 1990/91. Enrollment rates appear to have declined at all levels, except primary
(grades 1 to 4), and university. There are increasing reports of children dropping out of basic
education and of absenteeism in schools.
39.   There are also serious concerns about the quality of the human capital. As in the case of
many of its neighbors, Moldova faces the challenge on modernizing its education system and
adapting it to prepare people for a modem market economy. Further, the sharp declines in real
expenditures, especially between 1999 and 2000, were not been accompanied by systematic
rationalization of expenditures. Instead there were ad hoc adjustments. Thus, key inputs such as
basic teaching and learning materials and laboratory facilities have been under-funded. Teachers
salaries are often not paid for months, and even when they are paid, are so low that teachers have
to find second or third jobs. Arrears have also been built up in utility payments. The under-
funding of maintenance and major repairs have contributed to deteriorating physical facilities.
The poor condition and energy inefficiency of the physical infrastructure imposes significant
demands on resources that are difficult to meet. At the same time, they threaten the safety and
quality of the schools and classrooms, and therefore the quality of the pedagogical process.
Instructional hours have been reduced and, not infrequently, further reductions occur in
instructional days due to school closures in winter or other reasons. A recent international
assessment in which 38 countries participated, showed that relative to OECD countries, and the
10 other transition economies, Moldovan eighth grade students did not perform well in
mathematics and science.
40.   At the same time, the declines in public expenditure have been accompanied by a shifting
of costs to families through formal (e.g. cost recovery at higher education and pre-school levels)
and informal means (e.g. side payments to teachers). Unfortunately, the formal cost recovery has
not been accompanied by adequate protection for the poor.  Along with the fall in fall in
incomes, this has contributed to increasing inequities in the ability of different segments of the
population to access education. Children from the wealthiest quintile of the population are 60%
more likely to be enrolled in upper secondary education and 350% more likely to be enrolled in
higher education than those from the poorest income quintiles. Urban children have a significant
participation advantage at the upper secondary and especially at the tertiary level where urban
youth are seven times more likiely to be enrolled than rural youth. emerging serious inequities in
the system. These lower participation rates at upper secondary and higher levels leads to a bias
in public expenditures at these levels in favor of urban areas and he wealthy.



- 12 -
41.   Higher education financing is further biased against the poor in policy and practice.
Publicly financed university slots are allocated on the basis of merit, without taking family
income into account. On the other hand, other (more than full cost recovery) slots are available to
those with the ability to pay. Applicants from rural or poor families tend to score below those
from wealthier families on the entrance examinations and are therefore further unable to benefit
from public subsidies at this level and their families are also less able to pay fees. Competition
for entrance into university has also encouraged unofficial payments at the secondary and tertiary
levels that poor families cannot afford.
42.   The Government has been implementing, with assistance from the World Bank, a general
education reform program to improve and modernize the quality of primary and lower secondary
education. Although major changes, such as those envisaged in the reform program, typically
take several years, the reforms are beginning to have a clear impact on the ground. New
curricula have been developed by a new and more inclusive institutional structure and in
accordance with a more coherent framework. Improved national assessments have been carried
out in grades 4 and 9. Textbooks are being provided for core subjects and are being financed
through an innovative textbook rental scheme that makes textbooks more affordable to parents.
The local publishing industry is developing well and has been supplying textbooks on the basis
of competition. Teachers are receiving in-service training in the new curricula, teaching
methods, and assessment. These reforms are having a very positive impact on the quality of
basic education system and on the process of teaching and learning in the classroom and have
been well received by all stakeholders in the education system.
43.   Moving forward, it will be important to sustain and build on the reforms that have begun
in the education system. More comprehensive structural reform of the education system is also
called for, the preserve and improve quality, equity and access at all levels. The reform strategy
for the education sector will need to be financially sustainable. As a result of the dramatic
demographic changes, and in particular, the declines in birth rates, the population numbers for
grades 1 to 12 are expected to fall by 40%. It will therefore be important to rationalize physical
infrastructure and consolidate and close down facilities, while improving the condition and
energy efficiency of existing facilities. There will also be need to reappraise the supply and
demand for teachers and ancillary staff, to adjust the size and skills of the teaching force . This
in turn calls for a review and subsequent change in the systems for pre-service and in-service
training.
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures
44.   The SAC III program has the following objectives: (i) to support the continuation of the
ongoing reforms to improve quality and to build on these achievements; (ii) to improve the
information base and capacity to support future rationalization of the system by addressing the
demand and supply side for information; (iii) support the preparation and the adoption of a
strategy to address emerging inequities at all levels of the education system. The critical
downstream needs emerging from these actions, such as improved organizational structure and
capacity to implement the reforms, and  the implementation of the rationalization and
improvements in physical plant and staffing will be supported by the forthcoming public sector
reforrn project and a follow up education project.



- 13 -
45.   In the SAC III program, the Government has committed to continue the reforms to
improve and modernize the quality of basic education. It will monitor their outcomes, and make
continuous improvements, and ensure that all aspects of the reform are coordinated with each
other. To sustain and build oni the achievements to date, and recognizing the importance of good
quality basic education, it has; committed to funding these quality improvements in the coming
years. It has also committed to preserving and building upon the positive institutions and
practices that have been established under the General Education Project. These include the
National Council for Curriculum and Evaluation and the professional and consultative processes
for curriculum revision, an independent and adequately staffed Department of Evaluation and
Assessment, and the use of transparent and competitive methods for the procurement of
textbooks. The latter will be facilitated by autonomous management of the Textbook Rental Fund
by an inter-ministerial Steering Committee.
46.   To meet the future strategic challenges of the education system, and particularly the need
to rationalize while continuirig to improve quality and equity, the Government recognizes the
need to develop capacity and capability for policy analysis and strategic planning within the
Ministry of Education in the medium and longer term. The SAC program supports thus change
by supporting intermediate steps in the establishment of an Educational Management Information
System. This will eventually ensure that managers have access to the relevant data and
information for decision-making. The Ministry has already initiated improvements in the
existing database. In particuLar, it has created detailed information for three judets. The analysis
of these databases demonstrates many of the short, medium and longer term challenges facing the
educational system. Recognizing that a good information system will need to address both the
demand and supply side of information, the SAC program supports the use of the existing
databases as a foundation for moving ahead with the development of a national EMIS. To this
end, it supports a series of actions including the finalization and dissemination of the analyses on
the basis of existing databases, a review of the legal framework governing educational
management (including implications for employment relations), and the creation of a working
group to start the initial planning of an EMIS, based on an assessment of infornation needs. The
Government will also carefully examine the experiences of other transition countries with
improvements in infrastructure efficiency and system optimization, and improving management
of education.
47.   In addition to the actions to build capacity in poverty monitoring, evaluation and analysis
described above, the reform program includes additional studies and surveys on selected topics to
better inform the development: of the strategy to improve the quality and equity of primary and
secondary and to address the inequities that have emerged in the education system. These
include a study on finances available to schools, as well as informal payments by families for
pre-tertiary education, on the state of the physical infrastructure and improving energy efficiency,
and teacher staffing needs ancl the role of pre-service and in-service training institutions. The
Government will thus prepare and approve an education reform strategy to address, among other
inequities, the (a) reduced attendance and completion of basic education, particularly among poor
children; and (b) unequal access to higher education by students from poorer households, through
changes to the existing higher education selection and financial support mechanisms.



- 14-
B. 3. Improved Social Service Delivery: Health Reform
Context
48.   Moldova has made steady progress since the mid 1990s in reversing the decline in life
expectancy and in restoring health status to levels unseen since before the economic crisis. The
most dramatic reversals is in terms of life expectancy, which increased from 65.9 years in 1995
to 67.4 years in 2000. Infant mortality declined from 22 per 1,000 live births in 1994 to 18 deaths
in 1998; maternal mortality declined from 50 to 27 deaths per 100,000; standardized mortality
decreased from 1,613 deaths per 100,000 in 1995 to 1,456 in 1999.
49.   Despite these improvements, the Moldovan health system continues to lag far behind the
outcomes achieved in other European countries. In most cases, the outcomes for Moldova are at
least 50 percent worse than the European average. Even in comparison to other CIS countries
and other countries with similar incomes per capita, Moldova lags behind in all but life
expectancy, infant and maternal mortality. Moldova is the second worst of all European and CIS
countries in terms of the incidence of breast and colon cancer, with the exception of Armenia and
Lithuania. The prevalence of tuberculosis rose to 89/100,000 in 2001, a 98 percent increase as
compared to 1990. The steepest growth in HIV/AIDS rates in the world is observed in the region,
and Moldova is amongst the four regional countries with highest prevalence of the infection. In
sum, the health system faces the added complexity that the dual epidemiological profile,
characterized by diseases of poor countries, like infectious diseases, and diseases of rich
countries, like cancer and cardiovascular diseases, poses a serious challenge in the resource
constrained environment that is the Moldovan health sector.
50.   Over the past few years, the Government has made substantial progress in confronting the
emerging crisis in the sector. The national health system reform program has been centered on
four key pillars: a) strengthening the primary care network, b) improving the allocation of
resources to ensure a more equitable and efficient orientation of healthcare resources, c)
restructuring the health system at the national and judet levels, and d) strengthening the quality of
health care staff.
51.   The Government has aimed at allocating 35 percent of the health resources to national
public health priorities and primary health care, and the Health Investment Fund has been
instrumental in reactivating investment in primary care and emergency care. Most judet health
authorities are preparing or implementing detailed strategies for investing on primary and
emergency care and reducing excess capacity at the hospital level under the Bank-financed health
project. The Government, the Municipality of Chisinau and the Judet Health Authorities have
already taken concrete steps to reduce excess capacity since 1998: (i) the number of hospitals
decreased from 253 to 65; (ii) the number of hospital beds decreased by 50 percent; (iii) 8
Republican and Municipal Hospitals in Chisinau were either closed or consolidated; and (iv)
more than 100 ancillary facilities have been closed.



- 15 -
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures2
52.   Improving the allocation of resources to ensure a more equitable and efficient orientation
of healthcare resources will enable the Government to achieve a better utilization of finances and
to appropriately meet the health needs of the population. Given the current economic crisis
facing the country, the budge ary resources allocated to healthcare system have been reduced to a
minimum. The Government's intention is to ensure that the majority of these funds are allocated
to guarantee access to a minimum package of essential services and pharmaceuticals. Toward
this end the Government plans to develop a diagnostic mechanism that would provide a basis for
informed policy decisions in health sector finance through analysis of (i) the use of financial
resources spent on various levels of health care services (e.g., primary care, hospitals, and public
health), (ii) sources of financing, and (iii) the effectiveness of the utilization of resources. The
Government will address the outstanding financing issues within the existing macroeconomic
framework, with the use of best practice for health insurance design and through a better
understanding of what has worked and what has not in other CIS countries.
53.   Restructuring the health system at the national and judet levels will allow better use of
public funds by reducing expenditures on maintenance of infrastructure and unnecessary energy
costs while refocusing them  on essential health services.  Thus the reform  focuses on
restructuring the medical services provider network with a consolidation of the existing
infrastructure and a reorientalion of resources from the curative, specialized level care, towards
basic primary care. Under the SAC III the Government will implement a time-bound Hospital
Restructuring Plan for further elimination of excess capacity at the 17 Republican Hospitals and
the Chisinau Municipality Hospitals.
54.   The territorial reforms introduced in 1999 develop a decentralized framework for the
management of the healthcare delivery system. As part of the implementation process associated
with the decentralization, the Government will separate the healthcare providers and financing
functions (purchaser-provider split) to optimize medical care and to increase the accountability at
the local level. At the same time, changes will be required at the central level to improve the
policy making and regulatory capacity of the central level Ministry of Health. The development
of these policies will help ensure the following actions are taken: (i) publicly funded healthcare
services will be purchased from accredited medical facilities on a contract basis between health
authorities (the purchaser) and health facilities (the provider); (ii) over the next several years, the
majority of all health care pioviders will become autonomous entities and will no longer be
financed from the Governmenit budget; the legislative framework will be a critical element to
guarantee the success of this activity; (iii) efforts will be made to sell non-productive assets that
have resulted from the dramatic downsizing that has taken place over the past several years; (iv)
the Ministry of Health will strengthen its policy making and regulatory capacity to improve
oversight in the system and to develop the strategic vision required to guide the sector through
2 The Bank is also assisting the Government to identify funding for, and implement TB/AIDS pilot projects and
activities, and initiate the preparation of a TB/AIDS Project. The Government, UN agencies and NGOs have
established a Country Coordination Mechanism, which has just obtained a $1.7 million grant from the Global
Fund on AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.



- 16-
the difficult reform process; (v) the Government will restructure health service providers to allow
them to be financially and managerially autonomous and run by professional managers; and (vi)
the Government will revise its drug purchasing policy to allow wholesale procurement through a
competitive tender mechanism and to ensure the provision of a basic package of pharmaceuticals
to all citizens.
55.   The Government will also strengthen the quality of the workforce through actions aimed
at improving the clinical management of illness with the introduction of modem protocols,
strengthening institutional capacity through training physicians and improving management to
improve value for money in the healthcare system. Taking into account the present infrastructure
and the social-economic situation of public health sector, these measures will be urgently
initiated to ensure that the most pressing needs are met within a period of two to four years. The
Government will carry out and approve a human resource restructuring plan that will undertake
an inventory of the existing staffing levels and conditions in all health facilities, provide a clear
framework and estimate financing needs for further downsizing. The plan will promote the
reassignment of staff to underserved areas, ensure changes in medical education - including
policies and standards for training specialist physicians - to provide for an adequate supply of
medical professionals in accordance with the population's needs and resource levels. It will also
introduce alternative contracting mechanisms that combine fixed salary with variable salary
based on performance indicators and productivity. Second, development of primary care and
improving efficiency at the hospital level will require the development of new skills. The
Government will support retraining of physicians and professional staff, and improvements in
their management capacity.
B. 4. Strengthening Social Protection: Pension Reform
Context
56.   Moldova's current system of social protection remains weak and ineffective. The existing
social assistance programs rely on categorical and discretionary targeting approaches, and
Moldova lacks a policy and strategy to identify and target the poorest in society. The Government
recognizes and tries to address this issue. Some success in improving targeting of nominal
compensations for energy costs was achieved in 2000. The Government also lacks a coherent
strategy to protect the unemployed and disabled. The numbers of children taken into institutional
care is rising and there is no policy and strategy for de-institutionalization or provision of
alternative community-based care services.
57.   The capacity of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection to design and implement
social protection policies is limited. The policy-making responsibilities are unclear and
fragmented among several ministries (MLSPF, MOER and other line ministries) and social
protection costs are divided between national and local government. The Government needs to
identify and assign institutional responsibility for the design of social protection (and social
assistance in particular) policies and programs, including those institutional care programs that
currently fall under other ministries (e.g. to Ministry of Labor and Social Protection).
58.   In the area of pension policy the Government of Moldova began a reform of pension
system in 1998 and is in the process of its implementation. The 1998 reform rationalized the



- 17-
pay-as-you-go pension system by establishing a strong linkage between individual contributions
made and pensions received. The 1998 Law set a policy for the gradually increase in retirement
age (to reach by the year 2008 the age of 60 for female and 65 for male population); incentives
for individuals to work longer were introduced in pension benefit formula. The reform
eliminated most privileges and significantly improved the transparency and equity of the state
pension system.
59.   The early years of inmplementation have produced some positive outcomes. From a
position of high and increasing arrears, and significant in-kind contribution and benefit payment,
the system improved and recorded a small surplus in the social fund budget in 2001. All
payments were made in cash and on time. With the assistance of the World Bank, the
Government is building institutions to strengthen administration and enhance accountability.
60.   Nevertheless, the policy adopted since 1999 deviates from what was envisaged in the
reform strategy in several important ways. One is the treatment of farmers. Instead of
introducing a flat contribution scheme, linking farmers' pensions to contributions, for various
reasons, the old scheme was carried forward. As a result, significant redistribution to farmers
remains in the system, inconsistent with the principle of the reformed pension policy.
61.   The lack of pension indexation according to inflation is another major deviation.
Although required in the adopled legislation, for various reasons, pensions have not been indexed
regularly.  As a result, pensions' dropped significantly in real value, leaving pensioners
unprotected. The recent increase of pension adopted by the Government suggests re-calculating
the pensions instead of increase by straight percent is inconsistent with the pension reform
principal. In the absence of continued implementation of pension reform and without clearly
defined indexation mechanismt, the pensioners will face the risk of falling into poverty. Ad hoc
adjustment of pension level will leave the system nontransparent and inequitable, as well as
subject to financial disequilibrium.
Reform Objectives and SAC IllI Measures
62.   In light of the above, the reform program under the SAC III will support the continuation
of the pension reform to ensure sustainable and adequate old-age protection. The Government
will continue implementation of the pension reform based on the fundamental principles
introduced in the 1998 Pensiont Law including: (i) compliance with pension formula; (ii) gradual
increase in retirement age; and (iii) gradual elimination of pension privileges.
63.   To do so, a set of amendments to the 1998 pension law will be enacted including: (i)
integration of pension privileges into the general pension law with gradual withdrawal of
elements inconsistent with the general pension law; and (ii) specification of a clear financially
viable indexation mechanism with which to determine all future pension increases.
64.   The Government will also develop and approve multi-year financial projections,
demonstrating the financial inipact of these, and any other proposed legislative changes, on the
pension system and on future pensioners.
65.   In the absence of further reform in farmers pensions, Moldova's pension scheme will face
a serious setback. The financial situation will deteriorate, risking further arrears and delayed
payments, which in turn would increase the burden of the state budget. Under the SAC III



- 18-
program, the Government will prepare and approve a medium-term strategy to further reform
pension policy for farmers and the self-employed consistent with the reformed pension structure.
C.    IMPROVING THE BUSINESS CLIMATE
66.   The sustainable growth of the Moldovan economy - and the ability of Moldovan
enterprises to compete in international markets - requires a business environment conducive to
private sector investment (from both domestic and foreign sources) and new enterprise
development. Official statistics indicate that at present, the share of private sector business in
Moldova accounts for 75 percent of GDP, 70 percent of employment and 59 percent of exports.
However, the sizeable role played by the Moldovan private sector in the economy is more a sign
of the great resiliency of struggling entrepreneurs than of a supportive business environment. As
shown by a recent cross-country cost-of-doing-business survey funded by IDA, Moldovan
enterprises are subject to excessive State regulation, and the official and unofficial costs of doing
business in Moldova are much higher than in a number of other FSU countries and Bulgaria.3
67.    The Government believes adherence to, and further implementation of market-oriented
policies will send a strong signal to the business community, both at home and abroad, that it is
serious about structural reform and that Moldova is a good place to do business. In part, this
means pursuing a sound macroeconomic framework, including servicing external debts, to
maintain low levels of inflation and to continue to bring down real interest rates. It also means
taking steps to strengthen fiscal and fiduciary discipline, including through administering sound
tax policy and rationalizing expenditures, easing barriers to new business entrants, and
continuing competitive restructuring and privatization efforts of strategic sectors.
68.   The proposed SAC m     program supports the Government's efforts in strengthening
economy-wide structural reforms towards a market-friendly business environment and refraining
from any actions that would jeopardize this objective. In agriculture, a key sector in Moldova,
SAC III would support liberal market policies and further development of private land markets.4
In energy, the primary focus will be to make the power sector financially viable by privatizing or
changing management control of the power companies and assuring the independence of the
energy regulator; this will pave the way for the financial viability of the energy sector.5 In the
other key enterprise sectors, SAC III will provide the support needed to refine the rules and
procedures regarding the privatization process to make it more competitive and transparent, and
to accelerate the restructuring and/or liquidation of large loss-making enterprises. It will also
facilitate the privatization of strategic assets - Moldtelecom and the wineries.
3The business climate in Moldova was compared with that of Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Ukraine and Bulgaria,
where the same survey instrument was used.
4This will be complemented by the proposed Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) designed to improve
access of private farmers and rural businesses to knowledge, markets and finance.
5A proposed Energy 11 project would strengthen the power transmission network.



- 19-
C. 1. Hardening Budget Constraints and Improving Fiduciary Management
Context
69.   Strong fiscal discipline and fiduciary management are keys to improvement of Moldova's
economic competitiveness. To improve financial management, a single treasury system to
service the State Budget has been established. In 2001, a Cash Management Unit was created in
the Treasury to improve cash flow forecasting and management. Public debt management has
also been strengthened by consolidating foreign and domestic debt departments into a single unit
while improving its front, middle, and back office functions that provide support to senior
managers in developing and implementing a comprehensive and proactive public debt strategy
based on the country's debt sustainability analysis.
70.   A continued strong macroeconomic framework is needed to ensure the full benefits of the
structural reforms. With IMF support under the PRGF arrangement, the Government is taking
steps to maintain budgetary discipline and low inflation, lower interest rates and ensure external
sustainability. In this regard, the PRGF arrangement calls for a primary budget surplus on a
commitment basis of 1'/2 percent of GDP over the coming years to stabilize and subsequently
reduce the debt burden, increase revenue collection, and pay down budgetary arrears. Monetary
policies aim at further reducing inflation and maintaining foreign reserves equivalent to 3 months
of imports. Social entitlements will be maintained at levels commensurate with available
resources and paid on a timely basis. The structural reforms supported by the proposed SAC III
aim to strengthen the supply response and sustain stabilization.
71.   At the local level, a territorial administrative reform was implemented in 1998 which
reduced the number of administrative units (judets) and staffing levels, and an effort was made to
decentralize the fiscal system. USAID and the Bank (through a PHRD Grant) are providing
technical assistance for Public Sector Reform. The government has taken significant steps for the
computerization of the budgeting and treasury operations. However, the computerization was
done on a piece-meal basis and there is no integrated financial management system. It is
important to set-up an integrated financial management system.
72.   To strengthening financial accountability -in Moldova, it is important to improve the
internal and external audit functions. Currently both the external and internal audit capacities are
very weak and need significant improvement. The Government is aware of the problem and
recognizes that the auditing fimction should be strengthened within government bodies, and at
the level of the Ministry of Finance for internal audits across government bodies. At the same
time, external audits are currently conducted by Court of Accounts (CoA). The Court of
Accounts was set-up in 1994 ;nd does not have the adequate expertise in carrying out a modern
audit. While the founding acts of the CoA give it broad and nearly unchecked authority, the
Government recognizes that the CoA does not have appropriate guidelines for operation, exerts
its power in areas which should be outside its mandate (i.e., outside the use of public funds), and
does not have adequate skills and expertise. Indeed, the CoA is interfering in many joint venture
enterprises and damaging the business environment in the country. The CoA has about 140 staff,
of which 70 staff are in the central office and remaining staff are in regional offices. Most of the
staff are not qualified and lack adequate skills and expertise in carrying out a quality audit. The



- 20 -
audit reports are mostly of compliance nature. The CoA does not have the capacity to carry out
value-for-money audits or performance audit. The CoA submits its reports directly to the
Parliament, but the Ministry of Finance, which is an auditee of CoA, allocates the budget of the
CoA. This raises conflicts of interest.
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures
73.   The Government recognizes that subsidies for specific sectors do not promote efficient
use of budgetary resources, especially under tight fiscal pressure, and that limited resources
should be prioritized based on the efficiency and effectiveness of sectoral programs. To this end,
the Government will take steps to eliminate all public sector financial support for the wine and
tobacco sectors by (i) issuing a Government Decree which stipulates measures for the elimination
of all public sector financial support, including investments, loans and credits, and subsidies,
related to raw material production, processing and trade in the tobacco and winery sectors,
beginning with enactment of the 2003 Budget and thereafter, and/or modification or elimination
of any other related existing mechanisms; and (ii) enacting legislative amendments to eliminate
earmarking of all tax revenues to the wine and tobacco sectors, including those specified in Art.
18(2) of the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products (No. 386-XV) and Art. 22 of the Law on
Vineyards and Wine (No. 1 l66-XIV).
74.   Recognizing the importance of the wine sector for the Moldovan economy, the
Government recently approved a decision to establish a Wine Department that will engage in
export promotion activities. However, the Government will ensure that the activities of this
Department will not undercut functions of the market system through the provision of direct and
indirect financial support to private wineries. Further, the Government will not introduce any
earmarked taxes to create new extra budgetary funds for this purpose.
75.   Building on its past achievements and recognizing that fundamental change will require
forward planning and commitment, the Government is moving to a Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) based on improved macroeconomic forecasts and realistic resource
framework. This will help to improve resource allocation to strategic priority policy areas,
provide for increased commitment to predictability of policy and funding, and also will provide
line ministries with hard budget constraints and a measure of fiscal autonomy, but within a clear
accountability framework. In parallel with development of the MTEF and social sector reform
strategies, the Government plans to amend the Law on Local Government Finance and improve
tax-sharing arrangements in an effort to ensure accountability and fiscal autonomy at the local
level. This effort will be complemented critically by the new local treasury offices, where efforts
are ongoing to improve software, hardware and information-connectivity with the central
Treasury office in the Ministry of Finance in Chisinau.
76.   To reform the Court of Accounts, the Government will seek enactment of amendments to
the law on the CoA so that the CoA's mandate is limited to audit the use of public funds. To
further strengthen internal control for use of public resources, the Ministry of Finance will
reorganize the internal audit system as to increase independence and capacity. To ensure the
independence of the CoA, its budget will be approved by the Parliament. This arrangement will
require the proper independent review of its accounts and performance by an independent
external organization. The Government will initiate action to reach agreement with a similar CoA
of a European country to carry out such an audit of the financial statements and review its



- 21 -
performance. This arrangement will facilitate improvement in the quality of audit of CoA and
also review of its budget and expenditures. Through SAC III, the Government will streamline
the auditing function to avoid continued reputational risk to Moldova's business environment.
77.   To further improve fiduciary management, the Association is supporting other critical
government actions in this area. Building on an earlier IDF grant to improve the Government's
institutional and legal framework for procurement and a Law on Procurement that was approved
by Parliament in 1997, a Country Procurement Assessment will be carried out in FY03.
Additionally, through technical assistance supported by a PHRD grant for Public Sector Reform,
work is ongoing to improve the system of intergovernmental finance. A Public Expenditure
Review is also being carried out, to be completed in FY03. The Association has initiated a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and intends to completed it in CY 2002.
As part of the CFAA, the Government will prepare an analysis highlighting the strengths and
weaknesses of major users of public resources. Under SAC III the Government will adopt and
implement an action plan reconamended by the CFAA to improve the financial accountability in
Moldova both in the central government and also in the local government institutions.
C. 2. Reform of Business Admxtinistrative Framework
Context
78.   Burdened by a myriad of regulations, many businesses have resorted to operating in the
gray economy. Unpredictable changes in commercial legislation and administrative barriers of all
kind, including licensing, inspections, certification and customs procedures, impose the major
constraints for business entry and sustainable growth. Over the past several years, the
Government has taken several steps to reduce administrative barriers to business, including a
stronger rules-based policy firamework and improved legal systems and institutions. The
Parliament adopted a new Law on Licensing of business activities, consolidated the licensing
authority in the newly established Licensing Chamber and adopted rules to help cut rent-seeking
opportunities in about 25 ministries and departments that previously used to issue licenses. The
number of activities requiring licenses was reduced from 106 to 55, while leaving authority for
licensing for strategic industries - telecommunications, energy and banking - to independent,
qualified regulatory agencies.
79.   Reforms to streamline the system governing business inspections have been underway.
Among other actions, the Law on Creation of an Office of the Ombudsman was passed on
October 17, 1997. The office was established and three lawyers are elected by the Parliament
for a five year term. However, under the provisions of the current law the mandate of the
Ombudsman is focused primarily on settlement of claims brought in by individuals. As the recent
cost-of-doing-business survey shows, Moldovan businesses still complain of the intrusiveness
and arbitrariness of the State inspection and regulatory system and thus further reforms are
needed.
80.   The Government has taken further steps in improving the legal framework for bankruptcy
by enacting a new Law on Insolvency, which came into effect on February 15, 2002. The law
provides for out-of-court (restructuring) and court-led (plan and liquidation) procedures, and
introduces improvements based on experience and lessons leamed in the past few years.
Furthermore, the improvement of the legal framework is to be complemented by the efforts to
strengthen the capacity of the economic courts dealing with bankruptcy cases.



- 22 -
81.   In order to further enforce financial discipline on legal entities and persons, the
Parliament passed a series of laws including the Law on Prevention and Combating of Money
Laundering. The Law on Ratification of the Convention on Money Laundering, Identification,
Sequestration and Seizure of Revenues from Criminal Activity6 was adopted on March 15, 2002.
The Law on Financial Disclosure of Public Officials has passed the first reading in the
Parliament.
82.   The new Law on Pledge was passed on July 30, 2001. The Law provides clear provisions
on the pledge procedure of movable and immovable property, along with the needed regulation
on relations between the pledgor and pledgee. The law sets up the concept of a Pledge Registry
for movable property, which is to be implemented under the guidance of the Ministry of Justice.
The regulations related to the introduction of the Pledge Registry comes into effect on July 1,
2002.
83.   As one of the first CIS countries to accede to the World Trade Organization (WTO), in
2001, Moldova has made its commitment to the rules-based world trade regime. In order to fulfill
its WTO membership commitments, the Government plans to carry out substantial work on
harmonization of appropriate legislation and regulations in several areas. The Government has
started customs reform in order to combat corruption and smuggling, including through the
introduction of new customs seals and the rotation of senior customs officers. The Government is
committed to further reform the customs procedures.
84.   A new, market-oriented Civil Code will become a cornerstone of the Moldovan
legislative system. The work on it started in 1994 when a working group was set up by the
Parliament. In the fall of 2000 the draft Civil Code presented by the working group was voted on
by the Parliament as a basic draft. The Parliament then created a special commission to finalize
the draft Civil Code, and the special commission presented the proposed Code for the second
reading in the winter of 2002 during which the draft underwent substantial changes. That draft
passed the second reading in March 2002, and in April 2002 the entire Civil Code was-
surprisingly and quickly-approved in the third reading. Assessment of the passed Civil Code is
still underway to see what amendments might be necessary to bring it in line with international
standards.
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures
85.   While substantial progress in improving Moldova's business environment has been made,
a challenging reform agenda remains. The Government reform strategy aims at further
deregulation and upgrading the legal foundations and institutional capacity for a sound business
environment. The main objectives of these reforms are: acceleration of economic growth and job
creation, with a particular focus on SME development; promotion of foreign and domestic
investment; and reduction in size and scope of the gray economy by reducing disincentives for
business to enter the formal economy. To this end, SAC III will support the priority reforms to:
(i) remove administrative barriers to entry, exit and efficient operations of business; (ii) reduce
barriers to restructuring and redeployment of assets; (iii) provide a modern, market-oriented
framework for business legislation and commercial transactions; (iv) facilitate institutionalization
of the business-government consultative mechanism.
86.   To reduce barriers to entry and exit the Government is committed to decrease further the
6 Strasbourg Convention of November 8, 1990.



- 23 -
number of licenses and simrplify the licensing procedures. To this end, it will review  the
procedures and practices of the Licensing Chamber after the first year of operations and introduce
necessary modifications to the Law on Licensing. In order to decrease the cost of exit the
Government will develop a program to streamline the procedure of exit and de-registration,
including a one-stop-shop procedure and automatic de-registration following a set period of
business in-activity. The Government will analyze the respective legal documents, including but
not limited to the Law on Slate Registration of Enterprises and the Concept of Legal Entities
Registry, in order to ensure exit simplification and will amend the documents accordingly.
87.   The Government has a clear perception of the scope of reform of the inspection system in
order to reduce business harassment and increase the efficiency of inspections through
transparency and accountability. The Government is committed to conduct a radical reform of
the business inspection system to reduce impediments to business activity. This will entail
creation of stronger checks and balances, enhanced coordination among the inspecting
institutions for the proper filtering of inspections, modification of the enterprise inspection log
requirement and establishment of a publicly accessible centralized registry of enterprise
inspections.  As of today, the Ministry of Economy has presented an initial draft of a
Governmental Resolution on the reform of the inspection procedure.
88.   To enable the efficient redeployment of physical and financial assets to more productive
uses, the Government has eliminated stipulations in the Tax Code for VAT which levy VAT on
fixed assets brought in as statutory capital of an enterprise. This measure will eliminate a source
of discrimination against business reorganization in a low-liquid market, thus encouraging better
allocation of productive resources while reducing the costs of doing business. It will facilitate
enterprise restructuring, establishment of joint ventures and attraction of foreign investments.
89.   The market-oriented Civil Code is to include a clear stipulation of property rights and of
other real rights; norms on mortgages and pledges (subsuming the provisions of the Law on
Pledges enacted on July 30, 2001); and is to completely define the regulation of a set civil matter,
including all general and special norms. The new Civil Code (which will come into effect on
January 1, 2003) will require that all other laws be brought into conformity with it.
90.   The Goverrnent is strongly determined to institutionalize the business-government
consultative mechanism, including the establishment of an Ombudsman Office within the
Presidential Apparatus that will be instrumental in addressing concerns and appeals raised by
entrepreneurs in respect to admninistrative barriers to business. The Government is committed to
review and amend the existing Law on Creation of an Office of the Ombudsman in order to
assure that legal entities can address their business concerns and petitions to the Ombudsman
Office.
91.   The Government is committed to conduct continuous benchmarking of the business
environment: measuring changes through regular business surveys and using their results to raise
awareness and create a comnnon inter-ministerial platform for de-regulation and reduction of
administrative barriers. In particular, the Government will complete the second "Cost of Doing
Business" survey and develop a policy programn to implement findings; the findings of the survey
are to be published and disseminated widely.



- 24 -
C. 3. Reform of the Agricultural Sector
Context
92.   Agriculture remains the mainstay of the Moldovan economy, accounting for about 33
percent of GDP, over 40 percent of employrnent and 65 percent of exports. Since Independence
in 1991, Moldova's agricultural sector has performed poorly with declines in production,
productivity and exports. According to official statistics, agricultural production declined by
about 35 percent in the first half of the 1990s and by a further 20 percent in the second half and is
now less than half of its 1989-91 level. Most of the decline is the result of lower productivity
levels, as total agricultural area has not changed significantly. Yields are about 20-60 percent
lower, depending on crop, than the 1989-91 levels and labor productivity has also declined, as
the agricultural labor force did not contract at the same rate as production. This has led to the
significant contraction of aggregate agricultural exports.
93.   Some of this sectoral contraction can be explained by the extreme terms of trade shock
following independence, and the reduction in the highly subsidized nature of production
experienced in the pre-reform period. Farm products were procured by the state at prices much
higher than world prices while inputs, such as fertilizers and fuel, were provided to state and
collective farms at a fraction of the world price. This level of support was clearly unsustainable,
and increased concerns in the Former Soviet Union (FSU) in the late 1980s, about the size of the
subsidy and the increasing level of indebtedness required to keep farmers in business. In 1990/91,
along with the other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, Moldova set out on a
path of reform and restructuring in a move to a more sustainable market-based economy.
Unfortunately, the magnitude of these past distortions was so large that it created extreme terms
of trade shock. Moldova's general terms of trade were estimated to have declined by between 40-
50 percent, depending on the measures used, and were estimated to be more severe than in any
other CIS country. In 1992, the cost of petrol and natural gas increased 40-fold and the cost of
coal increased 100-fold. The input adjustments following these price changes, particularly for
fertilizers and fuel, are a key factor to explaining the subsequent output decline
94.   Despite the poor performance of the agricultural sector, the late l990s heralded progress
on policy reform and marked improvements in the speed and depth of land privatization which
had provided an emerging platform for future recovery and growth. The reform process
commenced from the mid 1 990s and has been prolonged but by the end of the decade had finally
begun to address the fundamentals of land privatization and farm restructuring, that has
substantively occurred during the last three years. In particular, the land privatization process is
now virtually complete after several years of delays and false starts. There have also been several
important positive aspects to the land reform program, including: the resolution of the farm
indebtedness through a one time write-off under the National Debt Program; the creation of
possibilities for a range of farm sizes and types to emerge through land market transactions; and
the development of options to lease out land to provide a way of allowing pensioners and others
to leave farming without burdening the surviving farms with uneconomic levels of labor. Of the
more than 1000 state and collective farms in 1990 all but 40 have been privatized and about 3
million individual titles have been issued, and by 2001, there were about 440,000 private farms.
About 80 percent of land is farmed in some sort of leasing arrangement.
95.   The progress made on policy reform provided a foundation for the reduction in the pace



- 25 -
of decline in agricultural output and even for it to bottom out with sporadic signs of early growth
appearing. After a promising start, key agricultural reforms failed to gain momentum since mid
2000 mainly as the result of the continuous struggle between pro-reform and conservative forces
within the Government This hampered and delayed the implementation of a consistent set of
policies required to properly address the critical issue of transformation. The result has led to the
inhibition of new enterprise entry, a poor investment climate, sporadic introduction of export
bans such as the timber export ban, increased licensing requirements (e.g. on walnuts) as well as
minimum reference prices for exports. All these measures have contributed to greater levels of
the uncertainty faced by the rmajority of agricultural producers.
96.   Despite these difficulties there has over the past six months been a period of active
dialogue between the Government and its development partners, particularly IDA. This dialogue
has resulted in the Government reconfirming its commitment to implement agricultural policies
and support agricultural institutions aimed at developing a vibrant market-oriented rural
economy, and is pushing forward a strategy for recovery concentrating on the unfinished
fundamental reform agenda. It has already made significant steps to realign past policies
especially regarding the cancellation of reference pricing for key commodities such as wheat,
further removal on trade r estrictions and licenses such as the tobacco export ban, and
streamlining subsidies within the sector and limiting them to a more focused and targeted
program through the Agricultural Support Fund. The Government has also reiterated that its
commitment not to become a direct facilitator of trade for the private sector. In this respect it has
already annulled a recent decree on creating procurement centers (which would have been prone
to capture by public officials) and discontinued debt write-offs through the State Grain Reserve
Fund (SGRF) and a differential pricing scheme for grain.
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures
97.   Given this background, the SAC III provides a new beginning for World Bank Group
cooperation with the Government of Moldova in the sector, which has significant potential for
recovery, but whose growth will remain suppressed unless renewed efforts are made to overcome
the remaining obstacles. In order to reaffirm its commitment to the systemic transformation of
the sector and a liberal agricultural policy framework, the Government has prepared jointly with
IDA a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) of Agricultural Policies. The memorandum was
signed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture and provides the foundation on
which SAC III policy actions can be further developed.
98.   The actions proposedl under SAC HI will help to better allocate productive inputs
(including land) while reducing the costs of operation for farmers, thus improving productivity in
the farming sector and helping farmers to increase financial returns, remain solvent, and grow.
These reforms will provide the basis for the proposed RISP which is designed to provide much
needed post privatization support through improving. access of new private farmers and rural
businesses to knowledge, markets (including for services and inputs), and affordable finance.
Thus the reform program under SAC HI contains 3 key objectives that include: (i) preservation of
farmers' rights during the farm re-organisation phase; (ii) rationalization of subsidies to the
sector; and (iii) maintaining a liberal incentive framework for the agricultural sector.
99.   Preservation of Farmers' Rights. The farm sector remains in a fluid state after the land
privatization program. In the coming two to three years, many farms will undergo major changes



- 26 -
as existing leases are reviewed and as the efficiency of different farm structures and sizes
becomes more apparent to farm households. This will, however, be a market-driven process with
the role of Government not to prescribe farm structures but to facilitate the rapid evolution of that
market-driven process. Therefore, the development of a functioning land markets is essential.
The Government has confirmed its commitment to the basic tenets of the Land Code of 1991,
with IDA assistance is preparing amendments to facilitate cadastre and land transactions. The key
issues that the Land Code will address include: a clear definition and protection of land owners'
rights; facilitating and supporting secure transactions of property rights, backed by formal
contract procedures; and limiting to exceptional circumstances, Government restrictions on
transaction.
100. The Government will develop a program to measure and reduce the costs of land
notarization and land transactions. In parallel (supported by the proposed RISP), a unified
commercial and pledge register system will be established covering the entire right bank of
Moldova and land owners will be informed of their rights, as well as standardized terms and
conditions of lease and sales contracts. To help resolve land disputes, with IDA support, the
Governnent will develop a system of legal dispute arbitration through the rural network of Legal
Advisory Centers.
101.  In order to strengthen private landowners' rights the Government has agreed to review the
draft Law on Production Cooperatives, and incorporate the key principals of voluntary
membership, freedom to exit at any time, with the member's original, physically demarcated plot
of land, and to the principal that land should not be subscribed as equity into Production
Cooperatives.
102.  To prevent large farmers from registering as Peasant Farms (thereby avoiding the
standard 5 percent VAT), Parliament amended the Peasant Farm Law requiring peasant farms to
convert to other forms of organisation if more than 50 percent of labor is hired from outside the
immediate farming family. To complete this reform, the Government will introduce a legal
definition for private individual farms that considers other benchmarks, such as the gross value
of production or the number of hectares, as more accurate indicators of size.
103.  Rationalization of Subsidies. The agriculture sector has in the past received significant
State support/subsidies. However, these subsidies have become unsustainable and helped to
hinder movement towards a market orientated rural economy. Thus the Government is
committed to ensure that any future agricultural subsidy must benefit primarily the poor, be
fiscally affordable and transparent, minimize distortions and be targeted, favoring post-
privatization restructuring of agriculture along efficiency lines. Thus significant steps have been
taken to eliminate agricultural subsidies, directed credits and off-budget programs to the sector,
outside of the Agricultural Support Fund (ASF).
104.  In 1999 and 2000, the ASF provided a one-time-only cash subsidy per hectare to all new
landholders. This subsidy program remained in place through two budget cycles and reached the
majority of new private farmers. The Government is now proposing an evolution of the program.
The ASF will now provide matching grants to commercial banks upon repayment of principal by
farmers to the banks. This will reduce borrowing costs for small private agro-producers while
minimizing distortions in market interest rates. The ASF, when properly implemented, will help
small borrowers establish a credit history, leading to more intermediation and investment in
small and medium farms. The 2003 Budget will include provision for the ASF only with no



- 27 -
other agricultural subsidies. The Government has agreed to implement the 2002 ASF with terms,
conditions and implementation regulations acceptable to IDA.
105.  Maintaining a Liberazl Incentive Framework  In order to liberalize price and trade
policies and encourage sustainable agricultural growth, the Government has already: (i)
eeliminated all remaining export bans, licenses and controls (including for timber, walnuts and
tobacco) and (ii) discontinued the practice of issuing reference prices for agricultural products
106. The Government has pledged to ensure that line ministries and other government bodies
desist from procuring, storing and trading agricultural commodities beyond levels implicit in
their functional mandates. The Government is also taking steps to better define the operating
rules for the State Grain Reserve (SGR) regarding purchasing and sales, so as to limit and make
more predictable their impact on market prices, eliminate in-kind grain loans or debt write off,
and shift some storage to private facilities thereby improving quality of storage and encouraging
private warehouse development. The Government has annulled several parliamentary decisions
which facilitated in-kind contributions of grain for the SGR in return for tax arrears, and in
parallel will discontinue differential prices for in-kind versus cash-based sales. Prior to second
tranche release, the Government will prepare a plan to operate the SGR according to the
principles set out in the Memorandum of Understanding.
C. 4. Reform of the Energy Sector
Context
107. Over 90% of energy demand in Moldova is met by imports. Energy imports represent
sizable portion of the countrr's balance of payments. Commercialization of energy supply and
improved efficiency of energy consumption are, therefore, critical for ensuring orderly financing
of the imports, protecting the government from accumulating external liabilities, reducing quasi-
fiscal deficit, and providing reliable and affordable energy supply to the economy and population.
108. With adjustment and investment support from IDA, Moldova has achieved good progress
in energy sector reforms. Achievements include: (a) a new, market-oriented legal framework; (b)
unbundling of vertical monopolies; (c) the establishment of an independent energy regulatory
agency (ANRE) and sustained increases in energy tariffs (electricity and gas) recovering full
costs, or in the case of the privatized power companies, as stipulated in the Purchase and Sale
Agreements; and (d) bringinig subsidies for energy consumption in line with resources and
improved targeting. Good iprogress has been made in privatizing and restructuring energy
companies. The majority of shares in Moldovagas - the country's monopoly gas supplier - have
been sold to Russia's Gazprom (and as a result, debt accrual to Gazprom by Moldovagas is no
longer a State liability), and three of five electricity distribution companies (covering more than
two thirds of the market) have been sold to a strategic investor. Also, the district heating
networks have been transferred from the State to municipal governments.
109.  These reforms have already yielded significant benefits.  Electricity prices to the
privatized companies are dropping and they are supplying electricity practically without
interruption in the center and south of Moldova, thus helping improve economic performance in
those regions. The performance of Moldovagas has improved and gas supplies have become



more reliable and secure. The Government has stopped accumulating external debt for gas and
electricity imports, except in non-privatized areas.
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures
110.  The objectives of the energy sector reforms at this stage are to further commercialization
of the sector and to sustain reform benefits already achieved. The priority measures for achieving
these objectives include: privatization of the remaining state-owned power distribution
companies, RED Nord and Nord-Vest; strengthening legal basis for prosecution of theft of
energy; restructuring of large historical debts in the energy sector; further strengthening sector
regulation; and maintaining affordable and well-targeted system of benefits to help the needy
families pay their energy bills.
111.  Privatization of RED Nord and Nord-Vest to a strategic investor with long-term interest
in the business and with the necessary financial and managerial resources would help
commercialize the electricity industry, reverse its physical decline, and make the industry
financially sustainable. Total losses in these two enterprises are in the range of 30-40%, which is
clearly unsustainable. Reducing the losses requires significant investments in metering, billing
and collection systems, and in rehabilitation of power lines and substations. The private sector is
in a better position to fumd these investments and operate the business efficiently.
112.  Completing privatization of electricity distribution would have positive cascading effects
on the rest of the electricity sector, as well as on other energy industries and on public finances.
In the electricity sector, it would improve the financial viability of the transmission and dispatch
company, which is critical for maintaining the integrity of the entire electricity system and
enabling Moldova to facilitate power trade in the region, between Ukraine and Russia and the
rest of Europe, enhancing energy security of the country. The privatization will also strengthen
the financial position of the combined heat-and-power (CHP) plants, improving the prospects for
their eventual privatization. This, in turn, would help the gas industry collect their payments
from the CHP plants, and the heating industry get better service from them. This would harden
budget constraints for the heating companies, increasing the pressure on them to restructure their
business and improve financial and technical performance. Finally, privatization of RED Nord
and Nord-Vest would eliminate the state's contingent liabilities which are being accumulated by
the two companies.
113. The Government has hired an investment bank to help with the privatization. It has
adopted a privatization plan which focuses on transferring management of the companies to
strategic investor(s), with good incentives for bringing better management, capital and
technology. The Government is also taking a number of other actions prior to the privatization.
The energy regulatory agency (ANRE) has brought electricity and gas tariffs to cost recovery
levels, and formerly unfunded energy privileges and entitlements have been streamlined, targeted
and fully funded in the State budget. The Government is dealing with problems related to
privatization of the other three distribution companies to a strategic investor in February 2000.
Over the past 18 months, going beyond its mandate, the Court of Accounts (CoA) has repeatedly
reviewed compliance with the Purchase and Sales Agreement, creating undue discomfort for the
private operator. More recently, these reviews have subsided. But-as noted above-to ensure a
permanent solution, the Government will draft and submit to Parliament amendments to the
founding acts of the CoA to limit its activities to its role as external auditor of public



- 29 -
expenditures. This will improve the business climate overall and send a strong positive signal to
prospective investors. Also, the Government recently took decisive action to facilitate the
strategic investor's efforts to rrmobilize US$50 million in investment finance through EBRD and
IFC loans. The loans are on significantly better terms than would have been available from
commercial banks. Over the short run, it signals that similar credits may become available to any
strategic investor in Nord and/or Nord-Vest, thus increasing their market value. Over the
medium-to-long run, it will result in lower tariffs for end-users. In addition, a number of
legislative amendments have been adopted to facilitate privatization.
114. The Government has prepared legislative amendments to strengthen criminal and
administrative prosecution of theft of energy and materials and equipment of energy companies.
With the level of losses of 30-40% -- 2-3 times higher than the industry standard -- energy theft is
now the main financial drain in the electricity sector, where collections and tariffs have been
brought to the requisite levels. The amendments are expected to be adopted by Parliament by the
fourth quarter of 2002.
115.  Restructuring of large ]iistorical debts in the energy sector would help the Government
spread the financial obligations for servicing the debts and reduce the risk of creditors enforcing
the repayment of the debts through disconnection of current supplies. An audit of these debts has
been completed by international auditor (Deloitte, Touche, and Tohmatsu). An energy debt
restructuring plan on the basis of this audit will be completed by the first quarter of 2003. The
Government will also amend by the same time the Charter of Moldtranselectro with the aim to
revise its responsibilities as to ensure proper handling of the debts.
116. The Government is committed to maintaining and strengthening the independence of
ANRE while requiring it to maintain a high quality of professional competence and integrity in
controlling monopoly power, .setting tariffs and establishing and monitoring other appropriate
regulations.
117. The Government will continue to ensure that the Law on Nominal Compensations (which
replaced formerly unfunded and poorly targeted household energy compensations) is being
implemented well and that its entitlements remain fully funded by the budget and paid on time.
The USAID-supported social assistance program, designed to help needy families pay their
energy bills and provide energy saving investments on affordable terms, will help mitigate the
social costs of increased financ:ial discipline in the sector.
C.5. Privatization Program: Legal Framework, Telecom, and Wineries
C.5.1. Legal Framework for Privatization
Context
118.  The Government's enterprise privatization program is designed to improve restructuring,
investment, corporate governance and job creation.  Between mid-1999 and mid-2000,
significant progress was made in the area of enterprise reform. The privatization program
resulted in the sale of three power distribution companies and other relatively large enterprises,
such as leather products and grain elevators, as well as more than half of the joint stock
companies owned by the state.. These sales brought flows of foreign investment and promised
further flows from investments of new owners.



- 30 -
119.  Since mid-1999, enterprise privatization has included the land under enterprises, and
significant progress has been made in re-associating the ownership of land and assets which were
separated by earlier privatization programs. Also, methods were adopted to generate demand for
enterprises which otherwise were unattractive because of high debt. As of January 2002, the
Government had sold 1638 leased premises, 1364 plots of land under enterprises that had earlier
been sold without their associated land, and residual shares in 863 enterprises out of a total of
1480.
120.  In July 2001, the 1999/2000 Privatization Program was extended through 2002, and its
scope was expanded by including all state-owned wineries and the tobacco companies. Its
strategy includes: (a) continuing rationalization of ownership of land under enterprises; (b)
divesting ownership of small residual State shareholdings in joint stock companies; (c) creating
jobs and promoting new entry through the sale of small assets; and (d) attracting technology,
capital and foreign market access through the sale of strategic enterprises to strategic investors,
particularly in energy, communications and agro-processing.
121.  After mid-2000, progress in the area of privatization slowed dramatically as a result of
impending elections. Even after elections, there were only some small sales of shares through
the stock exchange towards the end of 2001.  An indication of the deceleration of the
privatization effort can be gauged by the fact that revenues in 2001 have been 80 million lei,
compared to 426 million lei in 2000, and these have been largely installment payments from
earlier privatization.
122.  The legislative framework for privatization needs to be streamlined in order to improve
the quality and speed of privatization. For example, management of state assets has been
transferred to line ministries and this has potential for hindering privatization decisions.
Although Parliament has approved a list of almost 482 enterprises and other assets for
privatization, there remains some lack of clarity as to the decision-making process for when and
how individual objects within this list will be handled.
123.  A number of rules and procedures dramatically slow the quality and speed of the process.
These include auction/re-auction and price setting procedures for successive auctions which are
far too conservative, leaving enterprises in limbo for years on and off the auction block. While
regulations for auction by symbolic price have been approved, there are too many limitations to
the procedure. Requirements of investment commitments often leave enterprises in a poor ex
poste privatization position when it becomes apparent that the promised level of investment does
not make financial sense. In many cases, either where the investment commitment is not met or
in the presence of foul play, court battles are initiated by competing bidders which often end in
re-nationalization of the assets.
124.  One of the most-cited barriers to profitability of JSC enterprise owners is interference by
state officials exercising State residual ownership as leverage for rent seeking activities.
Following earlier privatization, the State holds such residual share-holdings in a large number of
enterprises. In the past, Government regulations established a committee in the Privatization
Department to sell residual shares at calculated prices. In many cases successful transactions did
not occur, even after multiple attempts to sell. In order to reduce opportunities for rent seeking
and improve concentration of ownership, some means should be found to quickly and efficiently
allow divestiture of the shares.



- 31 -
125.   Finally, sale of land under enterprises has also been dramatically slowed because
normative prices of land are too high, while rent due to municipalities are based on the normative
prices.7 This makes land both too expensive for the enterprises to purchase (often an enterprise
is associated with large tracts of land and there is currently no clear mechanism for dividing it),
and too valuable for municipalities to give up in terms of rent proceeds.
Reform Objectives and SACLUIMeasures
126.   Further progress on implementation of the privatization program.    Under new
streamlined privatization procedures, the Government will focus attention on implementation.
The Government will prepare am action plan for the 2001/2002 Privatization Program (01/02 PP)
with dated targets and proposed methods of privatization for the transfer of all 482 enterprises
identified in Annex I of the Privatization Program. The authorities also plan to do a stock-taking
of all remaining state property, including enterprises subordinated to state agencies and/or funds
and any other assets which could operate commercially. Based on this analysis and progress
achieved under the 200120/02 PP, the Government plans to formulate a privatization program for
2003-2004 which will include all remaining joint stock and state owned companies that can
operate in commercial spheres.
127. Simplifying and streamlining auctions and tenders. Amendments to the Privatization
Law and other applicable legal acts will be enacted as to: (i) eliminate reserve prices for
properties to be auctioned at the third auction, (ii) eliminate barriers to sale of at a single English
or Dutch auction to the highest bidder, (iii) in tenders, except in special cases, as determined by
an independent financial advisor transparently selected through an internationally competitive
process for each tender, eliminate investment pledges and requirements, and (iv) where the
Government is shareholder/creditor, it will act to initiate liquidation proceedings for properties
that have not been sold after three auctions. The Government is also drafting amendments to the
Law on Privatization to clarify the roles and responsibilities of responsible government agencies
to ensure that the privatization process is not impeded by the reassignment of the management of
state assets from the Department of Privatization to line ministries. In addition, the new draft law
on privatization will clarify the role of the Post Privatization Agency vis-a-vis applicable
regulatory agencies in respect of investment obligations made in connection with privatized
enterprises in regulated industries, such as telecommunications.
128. Elimination of barriers to sale of land associated with enterprises. The Government will
address the problem of plot indivisibility and price rigidity which create barriers to land sales,
especially in cases where enterprise assets are associated with large tracts of land which are not
needed by the firm and are expensive to purchase.
129. Divesture of minority shares held by the State in privatized enterprises. The Government
will write-off through a transparent process the State's share-holdings in privatized enterprises
where such shares represent 10% or less of the total shares outstanding and the book value of
state-held equity is USD50,000 equivalent or less.
7In Moldova, land is typically ownedl by municipalities and assets by the State. The SAC required that for all new
privatizations the land be privatized with the assets. This discussions refers to land under enterprises privatized
before the SAC program which led to rent seeking opportunities for local govermnents officials.



- 32 -
C.5.2. Telecom De-Monopolization and Privatization
Context
130. The Government is committed to reforming the communications sector to develop a
better business environment and encourage the development of a web economy in Moldova.
Moldova has undertaken a variety of key steps in reforming the legal and regulatory aspects of
the reform process in the telecom/ICT sector. These reform actions are both important in their
own right and will contribute to a successful privatization transaction of MoldTelecom,
Moldova's state-owned telephone operator.
131.  The sale of a majority of shares (together with transfer of effective management control)
MoldTelecom to a strategic investor will improve communications services, augment investment,
attract technology and create jobs. Privatization proceeds will be used to retire domestic arrears
and foreign debt. Completion of the various regulatory reforms in a timely fashion is necessary
as it relates to creating certainty in connection with the privatization of Moldtelecom.
132.  As part of its accession to the WTO, Moldova has committed to liberalize the
telecommunications market by 2004 and has submitted a schedule of commitments regarding
telecommunications services, including the "Reference Paper". Moldova is in the process of
implementing those commitments in its national legal and regulatory framework. In particular,
rules and procedures regarding interconnection will be promulgated, and ANRTI's independence
will be strengthened.
133. The Government has established an independent regulatory agency (ANRTI). ANRTI is
building capacity with support from USAID. Its main accomplishments include the issuance of
two mobile licenses to strategic foreign operators8, publication of a telecommunications policy,
and adoption of the tariff rebalancing plan agreed by IDA, described below.
Reform Objectives and SAC III Measures
134.  The Government is in the process of clarifying and consolidating in ANRTI regulatory
competencies applicable in the telecommunications/ICT sector to ensure legal/regulatory
certainty and the credibility of the regulatory function in the sector as part of its effort to enhance
the business enabling environment.
135.  A new Tariff Regulation has been adopted. Also, the first phase of a cost-based tariff
rebalancing plan (to be completed by 2004) for Moldtelecom will be effective in July 2002. It is
also expected that the tariff rebalancing plan will increase the value of Moldtelecom and attract
information-telecommunications service providers to do business in Moldova.  A new
Interconnection Regulation, which was the subject of broad consultation by ANRTI, has been
completed and is expected to be published soon.
136. The Government is committed to ensuring the de-monopolization and competitive
provision of voice telephony services over the internet (VoIP). To give full effect to the
Government's commitments to de-monopolize VoIP, the Government has taken all measures
8 ANRTI and one of the mobile licenses were established under the SAC-supported program.



- 33 -
necessary to give effect to its commitment to de-monopolize VoIP, including amending the
Telecommunications Law and decrees abrogating all other decisions, regulations, normative acts,
etc., that granted MoldTelecom a monopoly over VoIP services, as well as such other acts as
may be necessary.
137.  Through an international, competitive procurement process, the Govermnent, using its
own resources, has hired a iinancial advisory consortium to privatize MoldTelecom. The
advisors will assist in the process of privatizing MoldTelecom through an open, competitive and
transparent international tender for the sale of a majority of shares in MoldTelecom (together
with the transfer of management control) on the basis of objective selection and evaluation
criteria. The launch of the tender for this transaction is expected by mid-2002.
C.5.3. Winery Privatization
Contecxt
138.  Privatization of most of the wineries has already been completed, but ten important
properties, accounting for nearly one-half of all production by volume and a higher proportion by
value, are still owned by the State (Cricova, Barza Alba, Calara,i-Divin, Balti, Aroma, Vismos,
Nis-Struguras, Cojusna, Briceni, and Vinuri laloveni). In general, the transition policies in the
wine industry were extremely contradictory and were influenced by the strong lobby of interest
groups. Under a slogan of preserving national wealth, constant pressure was exerted to keep
these companies out of the privatization process, to deny access for foreign investors, and to
maintain at least formal state control over them. The privatization of these companies has been
delayed for years despite the lack of public funds for investments and a rapidly deteriorating
financial situation of the comp;mies.
139.  All of these companies have now been included in the current privatization program.
Moreover, in 2001, the Goveniment made an attempt to sell two of these companies. However,
the lack of advertising of the tender internationally, the absence of financial advisers and the
deficient bid evaluation process did not allow to complete the privatization.
Reform Objectives and SAC ItI Measures
140.  The Govenmment's strat:egy is to hire a financial advisor to market the sector as a whole as
a potentially divisible package of trademarks, land and production facilities to strategic investors.
The aim is to attract investors with market access to help develop raw material producers (with
information, technical assistance and finance) and to create a market for Moldovan wine,
including for the other 140-odd private wineries.
141. The Government will conclude an agreement with a qualified financial advisor, under
competitive and transparent procedures, for the marketing of the remaining wineries. With the
assistance of the financial advisor, detailed bidding documents for the sale of wine properties
will be prepared. An investors' conference will be organized for interested and potentially
interested strategic investors in the Moldovan wine sectors.
142.  Subsequently, using the services of financial advisor, the Govenmment will offer for sale
through international tender at least 33% of the total value of the existing state wineries to
achieve majority private ownership of a number of wineries. In parallel, the Govemment will



- 34 -
reorganize the Vinification Institute and the Fruit and Vegetable Institute to split their
commercial processing plants from their research centers with the aim to privatize the former.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    LINKS TO THE CAS AND OTHER BANK OPERATIONS
143.  The proposed SAC III is consistent with the strategy set out in the last CAS which was
discussed by the Board on May 6, 1999. The CAS set out three priority objectives: (a) helping to
create a foundation for long-run macroeconomic sustainability, growth and poverty reduction by
stimulating the supply response; (b) supporting private sector development; and (c) launching
reform of the public sector. A CAS Progress Report is being presented in parallel with this
Report. It takes stock of progress and summarizes the Bank Group's assistance strategy over the
near term. The policy and institutional reforms supported by SAC III are essential to place
Moldova firmly on the growth path leading to integration within the global economy. With
respect to future IDA assistance, implementation of SAC HI will enable policy reforms in
agriculture to lay the basis for the proposed Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP). SAC
III's privatization of the power distribution companies will set the stage for the proposed Energy
II project, which focuses on improvements in the transmission network. The reforms in the
pension and health sectors, together with the ongoing IDA-financed Social Protection
Management and Health Reform projects will help upgrade social protection and health care on a
sustained basis.
B.    OBJECTIVES, RATIONALE AND DESIGN
144.  Objectives. SAC III is designed to support and deepen the reform process and help
achieve the objectives of the I-PRSP. Accordingly, it would support: (i) establishment of an
effective social protection system, including delivery of quality social services, sustainability of
the pension system, and improved targeting of social assistance; and (ii) improvements in the
business environment through competitive restructuring of the agriculture, energy,
telecommunications and other strategic industries, and improvements in the economy-wide
incentive and institutional framework governing private sector business entry and exit and
privatization.
145.  Rationale for an Adjustment Credit. The economic justification for the proposed SAC
III is essentially twofold:
(a)   Budgetary Support and Facilitating Debt Servicing and Fiscal Adjustment. Even
with strong efforts at fiscal consolidation, the Government will continue to have
considerable financing needs in the medium term, as discussed earlier (under the section
"Medium Term Outlook"). The proposed Credit will provide budgetary support to help
the Government consolidate economic stabilization, bolster foreign reserves and service
external debt. Moreover, maintaining price stability will require continued tight domestic
credit. The Government is thus seeking financing from external, non-inflationary sources,
including multilateral institutions. As part of this financing package, SAC III would
provide some additional non-inflationary budgetary support during the next stage of
economic transition, providing breathing space while structural and institutional reforms
help strengthen the Government's revenue base and reduce expenditure pressures.



- 35 -
(b)   Accelerated Economy-Wide Structural Reforms.  The authorities' structural
reform program appropriately covers a cross-sectoral agenda. An adjustment operation
that helps exploit reform inter-linkages to marshal economy-wide growth is the most
effective instrument for supporting such a process.
146.  Credit Design. The proposed SAC III is designed as a three-tranche operation. A three
tranche structure was deemed as most appropriate to ensure that the necessary institutional
reforms blocks for further stbuctural adjustment in Moldova were implemented in a sustained
lock-step fashion, within a continuous reform roadmap. Nonetheless, to mitigate the risks of
stop-and-go  policy implementation, the conditionality is front-loaded while planned
disbursements are back-loaded: SDR 8.1 million equivalent would be disbursed upon
effectiveness for the first tranche, and the balance of SDR 16.0 million equivalent would be
disbursed as SDR 8.0 million equivalent for the second and third tranches each. The credit is
designed around the I-PRSP and coordinated closely with the IMF's PRGF arrangement, as well
as assistance from Moldova's other development partners (see below).
C.    PROPOSED CONDITIOI0S UNDER SAC III
147.  SAC III focuses on MIoldova's highest structural reform priorities. The overall reformn
program supported by the proposed SAC IH is described in detail in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 4 of this Report). All of the tranche conditionalities of the SAC III
program, are outlined in the Afatrix of Core Policy Actions (Annex 5 of this Report). The Matrix
of Core Policy Actions also outlines key reform measures that the Moldovan authorities have
implemented since the last SAC.
148.  First Tranche Condiitions. During Negotiations it was agreed that a set of actions,
which would constitute the first tranche conditionalities, would be completed:
(a) before submission of the proposed Credit to the IDA Board:
(i)   Strengthening Poverty Analysis and Evaluation. Government approval of a
3 year plan to strengthen capacity in poverty monitoring and evaluation.
(ii)  Enhancing Fiscal Discipline / Hardening Budget Constraints. Eliminate
all public sector financial support for the wine and tobacco sectors by, (i)
issuing a Government Decree which stipulates measures for the elimination of
all public sector financial support, including investments, loans and credits,
and subsidies, related to raw material production, processing and trade in the
tobacco an(d winery sectors, beginning with enactment of the 2003 Budget and
thereafter, and/or modification or elimination of any other related existing
mechanisms; and (ii) enacting legislative amendments to eliminate earmarking
of all tax revenues to the wine and tobacco sectors.
(iii)  Improving Fiduciary Management. Enactment of amendments to the Law
on the CouTt of Accounts (CoA), which limits CoA audits to use of public
funds.
(iv)  Easing Entry for New Business Development. Elimination of double VAT
on fixed assets brought in as statutory capital of enterprises.



- 36 -
(v)   Agricultural Reform. Satisfactory implementation of the Memorandum of
Understanding on Agriculture.
(vi)  Energy Sector Restructuring. Enactment of the necessary amendments, as
stipulated in the agreed privatization plan to the Individual Power
Privatization Law, the Energy Sector Debt Restructuring Law, and other laws
as necessary to enable successful implementation of the Privatization Plan of
the energy sector.
(vii)  Privatization.  Write-off of the State's share-holdings in privatized
enterprises where such shares represent 10% or less of the total shares
outstanding and the book value of state-held equity is USD50,000 equivalent
or less.
(viii) Telecom De-Monopolization. In order to de-monopolize VoIP telephony,
issuance of a Government Decree (i) specifying the necessary amendments to
the legal and regulatory framework, including normative acts, required to de-
monopolize VoIP and committing the Government to submit by the earliest
possible date, as prescribed by Parliamentary and administrative procedures,
these amendments to the Parliament; and (ii) specifying measures to be
undertaken by the Government and Moldtelecom, effective upon issuance of
the decree, for the competitive provision of VoIP (for example through
concessions or otherwise) pending enactment of the amending legislation.
(b) before effectiveness of the Credit: the Government would have in place a
macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives of the SAC III program, as
determined on the basis of indicators agreed with IDA. It was agreed that, among the
indicators the Association would base its judgment on, would be a satisfactory IMF
assessment of Moldova's macroeconomic policies that provides a basis for Moldova's
access to Fund resources.
D.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
149.  Benefits. SAC III would provide budget financing needed to sustain macroeconomic
stability, thus providing the financial underpinning for the Government's reform program. SAC
III addresses poverty in Moldova and is synchronous with the objectives of the I-PRSP. It will
encourage inclusive growth, improve social service delivery and contribute to better targeting of
direct social assistance and a sustainable pension system. To encourage growth, SAC III
supports a sound macro-fiscal program, which, combined with improvements in the business
environment, will encourage entry of small and medium enterprises. SAC III-supported
agricultural reform, energy reform and privatization will sustain increased exports, generate long
term growth and improve labor markets. Agricultural growth is especially important, since
Moldova's poorest strata is the working rural family. The deep structural improvements in social
services and social protection, which make up the lion's share of the consolidated budget, will be
better aligned to reach the poor. The energy sector and privatization programs will also reduce
corruption, improve corporate governance and strengthen budget constraints in the economy.
This will help to improve resource allocation and attract needed foreign investment and
technology.



- 37 -
150.   Risks. The operation has three important groups of risks - political, implementation
capacity, and macroeconomic (See Box 2).
BOX 2: PRODJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
Risks                                    Mitigation Measures
POLITICAL:
.   Delays in policy implementation and/or  .  The front-loaded core reforms require decisions by the
policy reversals due to insufficient     Government, the Parliament and the President as Board
ownership of the program and/or          conditions.
disagreements within the ruling party,  *  Adoption of three tranches with front-loading of reforms
CPRM.                                    and backloading of financing.
.   Political instability and/or social unrest  .  Continuing public dialogue, including through the PRSP
due to continued economic hardship for   preparation process, to build support for reforms.
the public and dissatisfaction with the  .  Ensuring that budgetary arrears are reduced and creating a
pace and direction of policy clbanges and  basis for improved public service provision.
implementation.
IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY:
*   Weak implementation capacity of      .  Essential technical assistance is in place with support from
Government agencies                     IDA and bilateral donors to help implement key elements
of the program (including post privatization agricultural
support, telecommunications and energy regulation,
privatization, health care reform, poverty monitoring and
targeting, etc. )
a   IDA plans to continue intense supervision throughout the
implementation period.
.   Close coordination of ESW by IDA in parallel with the
implementation of SAC 111.
MACROECONOMIC:
*   External shocks, particularly among  *   Close monitoring of the macroeconomic framework, in
Moldova's main trading partners or which  cooperation with the IMF.
affect exchange rates and/or tr,ade.  *  Efforts to work with bilateral and multilateral partners to
*   Lack of sufficient foreign and domestic  provide Moldova with sufficient concessional resources, as
investment, even in the presence of good  well as efforts with the Paris Club.
policies, due in part to a repulation  .  Demonstration effect of improvements in the business
hangover.                                environment along with supportive statements by the IFIs
*   Severe liquidity problems associated with  provided reform implementation stays on track.
the June 2002 Eurobond repayment and  *  A debt sustainability analysis has been developed jointly
large external debt service in 2002.     with the IMF.
.   Long run non-sustainability of growth due  *  Enhanced international scrutiny in the context of the
to large debt service.                   recently launched international initiative for the CIS-7.
151. Political Risk The (Govemment is supported by a strong majority party in Parliament
with over 70 percent of the votes. However, while the Government continues to enjoy the
support of the President and Parliament,- internal disagreements within the majority party could
weaken the Government's rnandate to implement the proposed program. These risks are
mitigated in SAC Im through the front-loading of core reforms that require decisions by the
Govermment, the Parliament and the President as Board conditions, and more generally through
adopting a three tranche design with front-loading of reforms and backloading of financing.
These risks are also mitigated through the continuing public dialogue, including through the



- 38 -
PRSP preparation process, to build support for reforms.
152.  Weak Implementation Capacity.  The Government's reform program is necessarily
relatively broad in coverage given the range of Moldova's pressing problems. Mindful that the
Government's reform program is potentially too ambitious for its institutional capacity, the
proposed SAC III focuses on the highest priority reforms. Nonetheless, the Government's
institutional capacity may well still be stretched under SAC III implementation. To mitigate this
risk the Bank Group is providing Technical Assistance to the Government in several SAC III-
related areas (see below) and IDA is also actively mobilizing and coordinating donor support
through the PRSP process. The Public Sector Reform program, see below, will also help build
stability, incentives and implementation capacity in Moldova's public service.
153. Macroeconomic Risk. The reform program supported by the proposed SAC III is
designed to lay the foundations for a sustained resumption of economic growth. But there is a
clear risk that early signs of growth may not continue, if reform implementation is slow, or if
Moldova's suffers an exogenous shock affecting production (for example bad weather) or
income (for example a deterioration in the terms of trade). Sustained economic decline could
weaken reformers in Government and erode public support for the program. Moldova's loss of
its predominant export market, its reliance on imported energy inputs, and its existing debt
service requirements could all lead to lower growth prospects. To help mitigate these risks, SAC
m contains strong actions to improve the structural foundations for sustained growth, for
example through improvements in the business environment. In addition, IDA will be closely
monitoring in close collaboration with the IMF the macroeconomic and structural program of the
Government to ensure it stays on track over a sustained period. There is also enhanced
international scrutiny in the context of the recently launched international initiative for the CIS-7.
IDA is working with bilateral and multilateral partners to help mobilize sufficient concessional
resources to help Moldova manage its debt burden, and is closely monitoring efforts in the Paris
Club. A debt sustainability analysis has been developed jointly with the IMEF. IDA, the IMF and
the Government will continue to explore other avenues for Moldova achieving long run debt
sustainability.
E.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
154.  IDA and the IMF are cooperating closely on Moldova. The macroeconomic framework,
as well as inputs to consolidated budget formulation, including the social fund budget, are
consistent and closely coordinated among the Government, the IMF and IDA. After the EFF
expired in May 2000, IDA and the IMF worked closely with the Government to help prepare an
I-PRSP and a joint IMF/IDA Debt Sustainability Analysis (DSA) as pre-requisites for an IMF
PRGF arrangement. A Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP was approved by the respective
Boards of the IMF and IDA in December 2000. At the end of December 2000 the IMF approved
an SDR 110.88 million three year operation under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PGRF). The unexpected general elections held in February 2001 and the subsequent change in
government caused the first review of the Fund program to be delayed. After the new
Government took office, two joint IMF/IDA missions took place between July and September
2001 to reach agreement on a Supplemental Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies.
The first review of the PRGF was to have been completed in December 2001, but when the
Moldovan authorities signed an agreement with Russia on gas deliveries that included State
guarantees, the Fund Board meeting for the first PRGF was cancelled. A February 2002 IMF
mission failed to resolve these issues.



- 39 -
155. In mid-May 2002 an INIF staff team visited Chisinau (working in collaboration with IDA
staff) to resolve the outstanding PRGF issues and agree with the Moldovan authorities on
macroeconomic policies for the remainder of the year so that the IMF could proceed with the first
review of the PRGF in early July 2002. Discussions were successfully concluded with an
agreement on the basis of which IMF staff will proceed with the first review of the PRGF. In
light of the fact that the Fund program is on track and expected to be shortly approved by the
IMF Board and that Moldova has pressing external debt financing needs, SAC III will be
presented to the IDA Board prior to the IMF review of the PRGF. Based on the agreement
reached between the Moldovan authorities and IMF staff, all PRGF prior actions for the first
review are to be met before the! proposed SAC III will be discussed by the IDA Board. However,
if the PRGF prior actions should not be fulfilled before the scheduled Board date for the
proposed SAC III, management will postpone IDA Board consideration of SAC III and the
accompanying CAS Progress Report. Moreover, as indicated above (under the section "first
tranche conditionalities"), a condition of SAC III effectiveness linked to Moldova's maintenance
of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, as indicated, inter alia, by access to IMF resources,
mitigates risks associated with the sequencing of the SAC III Board date.
156. PRSP. As noted earlier, the Government has prepared a PRSP Preparation Status Report
indicating progress made in several areas including setting out a new PRSP institutional
arrangement, improving poverty monitoring indicators, and implementing a medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF). The staffs of the Association and the Fund are currently
preparing the Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of the PRSP Preparation Status Report to assess the
progress and government effort in developing a full-PRSP in coordination with civil society and
external partners. The PRSP Preparation Status report and the accompanying JSA will be
circulated to both the Association and Fund Boards at the same time when the IMF Board
discusses the First Review of the PRGF, currently expected in July.
157. In moving forward, the Government intends to develop a full PRSP through broad-based
participation and consultation with key stakeholders and external development partners. This
approach will build consensus and ownership among key stakeholders who participate in the
development of a PRSP and thius increases the probability of success in poverty alleviation over
the medium-term. Toward this end, the Government will move quickly to finalize the PRSP
institutional arrangement and l:o select members of Council of Experts so that it could begin to
play role in organizing participation and consultation. The Government will also clarify the
organizational structure of the Technical Committee and its roles and responsibilities in order to
strengthen coordination among working groups on poverty analysis, monitoring and evaluation
and others working groups on sector strategies. With assistance of IDA and other external
development partners, the Government will develop and implement a detailed participation plan
to ensure adequate consultation and participation of key stakeholders in providing inputs and
feedbacks to the PRSP from the very beginning of the process. To enhance the quality of the
participatory process, the Government has extended the completion date of the full PRSP to
March 2003.
158. With respect to Moldova's other development partners, while the Bank Group plays a key
role in Moldova, we try to ensure complementarity of roles among the partners based on
respective comparative advantage. Working with other public and private sources of
development assistance has become essential to our work given the magnitude of the agenda, the
constrained Bank Group budget, and most importantly, the need to ensure that Moldova's



- 40 -
development partners provide consistent policy advice and complementary financial support. We
are working closely with bilateral agencies, including USAID, the Netherlands, SIDA, GTZ, and
DFID. Expanding the quantity and scope of bilateral assistance to Moldova will be one of
IDA's objectives during the period of SAC III implementation. The Association is also working
closely with the EBRD, the IMF and the ADB on, among other efforts, the recently launched
CIS-7 initiative, as well as with private foundations and the UN family. In addition, as noted
above, through the PRSP process the Association looks forward to greater participation of
NGOs.
IV. FINANCIAL AND FIDUCIARY MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
159. The proposed credit of SDR 24.1 million (US$30 million equivalent) would be made to
the Republic of Moldova, represented by the Ministry of Finance.
160. The Credit will be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, including a grace
period of 10 years, and would be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche, SDR 8.1 million,
would be disbursed immediately after effectiveness (estimated in June 2002); SDR 8.0 million
would be disbursed upon fulfillment of the second tranche conditions (estimated
November/December 2002); and SDR 8.0 million would be disbursed upon fulfillment of the
third tranche conditions (estimated March/April 2003).
161.  Disbursements under the proposed credit will be made to an account ("Deposit Account")
of the Ministry of Finance established at the National Bank of Moldova (NBM). The credit will
be disbursed according to the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
operations. Thus disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and there will be no
procurement requirements. If the credit proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, IDA will
require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes;
or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the credit.
162.  Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall (a) have the Deposit Account audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four (4) months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably requested. IDA will require an audit of the deposit account by an auditor, with terms
of reference acceptable to the Association. The required audit reports would be submitted to IDA
no more than two months from the closing date of the Credit. The expected closing date of the
proposed Credit is September 30, 2003.
163. The Government intends to use the credit proceeds to meet its general budget
expenditures, including debt service payments. The Ministry of Finance and the NBM have in
place the basic financial management systems, in terms of accounting, reporting, auditing and
internal controls. The NBM adopted IAS in 1995 and is audited by internationally recognized
auditing firms.
164.  To date, IDA's country strategy and program have supported improvements in financial



- 41 -
management capacity. An [DF grant to improve the Government's institutional and legal
framework for procurement was implemented in 1996 and 1997, and a Law on Procurement was
approved by Parliament in 1997. A CFAA has been initiated, with the main mission planned for
July 2002 and completion by end 2002, and the adoption of a satisfactory action plan to
streamline and strengthen the Government's internal and external auditing capacity will be a
condition of SAC III. In addition, under a PHRD grant for the preparation of a proposed Public
Sector Reform project, work is ongoing to improve public expenditure management. In addition,
a Public Economic Management Review is underway in close cooperation with the Government
and is expected to be completed in FY02.
V. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
165.  In accordance with the: Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD
4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been rated in category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
VI. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
166.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, DC
May 23, 2002






Annex I
Page I of 7
Table 1
Mo ldova - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Actual                       Estiniate              Projected
Indicator                  1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004     2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product a/                     100      100       100      100      100       100      100       100      100      100
Agriculture                                  31       30        30       28        29       26        25       25       24        24
Industry                                     31       29        23       23        22       24        24       24       25        25
Services                                     38       41        46       49        49       50        50       51        51       51
Total Consumption                             94        96      100        91      103        98      105       104      101       98
t;ross domestic fixed investment              20        20       22        18       15        14       15        17       19       21
Governient investment b/                      2        3         5        4         2        2         2        2         3        3
Private investment                           18       17        17       15        13       11        13       15       16        18
Exports (GNFS) c/                              55       55       47        52       50        52       Sl        53       54       55
Imports (GNFS)                                74        74       72        66       77        73       76        78       78       77
Gross domestic savings                         6         4        0         9        -3        2       -5       -4        -1        2
t3oss national savings d/                      13       10        6        19       15        19       14        14       15        18
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                       1695     1930      1699     1171     1289      1479     1573      1685     1812      1980
(USS niDlion at current prices)
CNP per capita (USS, Atlas method)           650       590      470       410      390       400      460       500      530      580
Real annual growth rates (0%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices    -5.9       1.6     -6 5      -3.4      2.1       6.1      4 8       5.0      5.0      5.0
Gross Domestic Income                       -4.2      6.7     -4.7      -73       2.1       9.8      3.7       4.9      5.5       5 5
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calcu ated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices     -5.7      1.9     -6.3      -3.2      23        6.3      5.1       5.3      5.3       5.4
Total consumption                            5.5     12.0     -1.7     -15.9      16.5      9.2      8.3       4.1      3.2       3.3
Private consumption                         12.6     28.1      4.7     -14.8     18.5       8.5      6.0       4.3      2.1       1.6
Balance of Payments (LSS millions)
Exports (GNFS)c/                            937      1058      793       612      640       739      795       885      983      1092
Merchandise FOB                           823       890      644       475      477       569      618       686      760       842
Imports (CNFS)c/                           1253      1434     1228      778       990     1101      1201     1314      1409     1533
Merchandise FOB                           1075     1238      1032      610      783       882      984      1089     1176      1290
Resource balance                            -316     -376     -435      -167     -350      -362      406       429     427       -441
Net current transfers                        73        54       64        87      157       152      163       168      190       199
Current account balance                    -188      -275     -334       -47      -121     -119      -t16     -134     -124      -119
Net private fbreign direct investnment       23        78       76        39       128      149       95       139       140      154
Long-term loans (net)                       126       285       20        90       116      -23      -21        -1       13         1
Official                                    38        52       40        87       36         3         1      -16      -12         8
Private                                     88       233       -20        3       S0       -26      -22        15       25        -7
Othercapital(net,incl errors&ommissions)     71       -36       76       -46       -72        4       57        23       21        20
Change in reserves e/                        -32      -52      162       -36       -51      -12      -16       -26      -51       -56
Memorandum items
Resource balance (/. ofGDP)                -18.6    -19.5     -25.6    -14.2     -27.2     -24.4    -25.8    -25.5     -23.5     -223
Real annual growth rates ( YR95 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                   16.5      5.5     -13.7     -16.8     13.0      13.0      6.1      83        8.0      8.1
Primary                                    343     -13.5     -12.3     -19.9     13.8     44.3       73       9.0       8.5      8.5
Manufactures                               12.0    -47.5       4.8    -25.2       3.6      4.8       0.9      5.3       5.6      6.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)                    9.7      9.2     -10.3    -62.5      153      13.3      12.5      7.4       6.0      7.6
(Continued)



Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
Moldova - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estirnte                   Projected
Indicator                 1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003     2004     2005
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices) fJ
Curnent revenues                          35.9     38.5     37.6      30.4     30.7     29.1     29.7     29.6     30.0     30.8
Cufrent expenditures                      43.7     45.9     39.1      33.0     31 4     27.4     30.7     30.2     29.1     29.0
Current account surplus (+)ordefich(-)    -7.8     -7.5     -1.5      -2.6     0.7       1.7     -11      -0.6      0.8      1.8
Capitalexpenditureg/                       02       3.1      4.9       3.5      22       2.3      2.0      1.8      2.5      3.2
Foreign financing h/                       5.8      3.3     -1.0       3.5      1.0     -2.0      0.7     -0.4      0.2     -0.5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                     18.4    21.6      19.2     20.3     21.9     25.2     27.1     28.7     29.9     30 8
GrowthofM2(%)                              153     34.1     -8.7      42.6     40.3     36.3     20.1     209      15.7     15.0
Private sector credit growth/             107.0    33.8     25.8    -107.9    90.7      79.8     70.1     85.8    137.7    131.1
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR95 =100)
Merchandise export price index            100.0    102.6    86.0      74.0     67.8     71.5     732      75.0     76.9     78.8
Merchandise uiport price index            100.0   100.1     97.5     144.3    174.7    171.6    1702     175.4    178.7    182.2
Merchandise terms oftrade index           100.0    102.5     88.2     513      38.8     41.7     43.0     42.7     43.0     432
Real exchange rate (USStLCU) il           100.0    108.0    109.2    102.1     892      85.9     86.7     872      87.2     85.9
Consumer price index (%change)            23.5      11.8      7.7     39.3     31.3      9.8      6.6      8.4      6.0      6.0
CDP deflator (% change)                   27.9      12.5      9.5     39.8     273      11.9      6.6      8.4      6.0      6.0
a. CIP at factor cost
b. Includes project loans spendmg.
c. GCNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
d. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
e. Includes use of IMF resources.
f. Consolidated general government (State + Local + Social Fund).
g. Includes spending on projects financed by foreign sources.
h. Includes disbursement of DA credits.
i. "LCU' denotes "local currency units." An increase in USS/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
Table 2
Moldova - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                     Estimate               Projected
Indicator                 1996   1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003     2004     2005
Total debt outstanding and              848     1083     1071     1025.    1246     1226     1278     1313      1357     1348
disbursed (TDO) (USSrn)
Net disbursements (USSrn)               153      286      -42       93      103       -3       59       48       44       -9
Totaldebtservice(TDS)                    84      134      204      211      139      162      209      213      217      240
(USSm)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%A)
TDO/XGSb                              79.9     940      1200     145.9   162 5     132.0    126.6    119 1    1144     103 5
TDO/GDP                               50.0     56.1     63.0     87.5     967      829      813      779       74.9     681
TDSIXGS                                8.0      11.6    22.9     30.0     18.1      174     20.7      19.3     183      18.4
ConcessionaVTDO                        19.6    17.6     19.1     227       19,5    18.1     243      297       350      39.6
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/pubbc DS                      12.5      7.6      5 4      8 6     15 7     14.0     14 4      16 7     16 3     16 9
Preferred creditor DS/pubkc           42.6     386      55.0     576      71 6     504      528      58.2      51 6    49.8
DS (%)-
IBRDDS/XGS                             09       0.8      1.1      21       2.1      1.8      1.9      1.9      1.7       1.6
IBRDTDO(USSm)                         142      135      169      199      191      181      175       167      160      148
Of which present value of
guarantees (USSmn)
Share in total IBRD portfblo (%)      0.13     012      0.14     016      0,16     015      014      0.14      013      012
IDATDO(US$m)                             0       35       38       77      103      113      149      189      228      270
IFC (US9r)
Loans                                           3 8               8.7      2 6       29 /c
Equity and quasi-equity If                        2               66       05
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USSmn)                                                      3       64
a Includes public and publcly guaranteed d ebt, private nonguaranteed, use ofIMF credits and net short-term capital and excludes energy arrears.
b. "XGS' denotes eapoTts of goods and services, including workers'remnittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional Traihlateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank fbr International Settlerents.
d. Includes present vahle ofguarantees.
e. Include loan to Union Fenosa (S25 nillion L
f Includes equhy and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instrunients.



Annex I
Page.4 of 7
Table 3
Moldova - External Financing
(in millions of US$)
2002        2003       2004        2005
1. Financing Need                                          149         188         191        156
(a) Current Account Deficit                               116        134         124        119
(b) Increases in Gross International Reserves             33          54          68         37
2 Financing Source                                           62        134         162         171
(a) DFI and Portfolio Investment                          95         139        140         154
(b) Net Foreign Inflows                                  -13          -5         22          17
Disbursement                                          133        133         157         188
of vthich
World Bank I/                                        15         18          22         28
EBRD                                                 17         22          21         21
IFAD                                                  2
Other Bilaterals                                      5          6           5          6
Amortization                                          147         138         135        171
(c) Other capital flows                                   -20
3 External Financing                                         87         54          29         -16
of which:
(a) SAC III                                              20          10
(b) Other 2/                                             67          44         29
1/ Excludes IDA adjtstment credit.
2/ Includes disbursement under the IMF PRCF arrangement and possible debt restructuring with bilateral and private creditors



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Table 4
Mloldova - Debt Sustainability Analysis
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Base Case
Totalextenaldebt,mil.US$                             1226 1278 1313 1357 1348 1333 1333 1330 1345 1356 1359
Government and gvemnment guaranteed debt, mil US$     961  981   982   995   980  944   909   881   883   883  856
External debt to GDP, percent                         83    81    78   75    68    62    58   54    51    48    45
NPV to GDP, percent                                   78    75    70   65    58    52    48   44    40    36    34
NPVtoexportsofguodsandservices,percent 1              175   163  146   133   116   102   91    82   73    65    58
TDStoexports ofguods and services, percent            21    26    24   22    22    18    15    14    14   13    1 1
NPVofpublicdebttocentral gvernmeitrevenues,pecent     320  290   258   231   197   170  147   127   III   96    83
TDS ofpublic debt to centralW vernment revenues, percent  42  44  38   37    33    27    23    22   20     19   16
Low Case
Total external debt, mil. USS                                    1313 1365 1403 1431 1452 1484      1528 1576 1625
Government and government guaranteed debt, mil.USS                982 1002 1035 1042 1027 1036 1066 1103 1121
External debt to GDP, percent                                      89    88    85   83    80    78    76    75   74
NPV to GDP, percent                                                79    64    63   60    57    54    53    53    51
NPV to exports ofguods and services, percent'                     150   141   130   119  III   105    98    92    89
TDStoexportsofgDodsandservices,percent                             26    24    25   21    18    18    19    18    17
NPVofpublicdebttocentralguvernment revenues, percent              295   269   244  220   198   180   164   150   138
TDS of public debt to central guvernment revenues, percent         44    43    39   33    30    28    27    27    23
Note Energy arrears are not included int o the above calculaitons.
1/3 years averae (centered on the prev:ous year) exports have been used



Moldova at a glance                                                           5v24/02
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Central     Low-
M oldova      Asia  Income        Development dlamond
2001
Popuation,mid-year(mitions)                         4.2      475     2A459                Ufeexpctancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  400      2.0t      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     t4      956      t030
Average annual growth, 1995.01
Population (9)                                      -02       0.1       t9
Labortorce(%)                                      -2t8       0.6      24      GNI                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                          per Ita                     enrollment
Poverty (%of population beownationalpovertylhne)     55
Urban population (%oftotalpopulation)                50       67        32
Life epectancyat birth (years)                       67       69        59
Infantmortalfty(per 00011vOebrths)                   18        21       77
Child malnutrition (%of chl1dren under5)              .    .             ..         Access to improved wetersource
Accesstoanimprovedwatersource(%ofpopulaflon)         56        90       76
11iteracy(%ofpopulationage Z-)                        2        3        38
Gross primaryenroliment (Xoftschool-age population)  92       170       96           -Moldova
Male                                               90        )1       12           -- - Low-incomegroup
Female                                             93        99       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991     2000     2001
Economic ratlos-
GDP (US$ bllions)                             .       ..      t3        t5
Gross domestic lnvestmentGDP                       29.0      23.9      20.1
Exports o goods and services/GDP                   32A       49.7      51.7                   Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                         27A       -3.2      2.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   .4.9                      8S
Current account balance/GDP                       ..         -9.4      -8.0
Interest payments/GDP                        ..               3.6       32     Domestic            *       Investment
Total debt/GDP                               ..              96.7      829     savings           /7
Total debt serviceVexorts                    ..               8.1      VA
P resent value of debtUGOP                   ..      ..      9t7       799
Present value of debt/exports                ..             1542      1273
indebtedness
1981.91  1991-01   2000       2001 2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                t6      -7 0      21       6.1      5.0            -Moldova
GDP percapita                      0.7     -62      2.3       63        53                  Low4hcomegroup
Exports of goods and services       ..       2      9.5       a.       7B
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%ot GtP)                                 1981     1991    2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
Agricufture                                  ..    42.7      29.0      26.0    20
Industry                                    ..     33.3      217       24.1     a
M anufacturing                              ..       -       5.3      82            7     i7      7   s   0 
Services                                    ..     23.9      492      49.8    -20 4                   _
Privateconsumption                           ..     57 1     92.9     889      .401
General govemment consumption                       b5.1      t.3      123
tmports of goods and services               ..     34.0      76.8     73.0               _GOI        -   _GDP
1981-91  1991-01     2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annualgrowtdh)
AgHculture                                  ..     -9.5       2.3      43      40
Industry                                    ..     -tt5       6.6 8            20
Manufacturlng                               ..    -3.4      s 9 
Services                                      .     0.3      -3.8     -0.5      o     '   ~'    7      7
go     9   5 .J55    00    01
Privateconsumption                           ..     9.1       b.3      82      20.          
General govemment consumption               ..     -14        2.0      b5     .40 .
Gross domestic investment                    ..    -14.1      119      -8.8                Expons      aImpors
tmportsofgoodsandservices                   ..      5.6      32.6      IDS
Note: 2001data are pretminaryesilmates.
'The diamonds showfour keyindicator In the country(in bold) compared with is Income-group average. n data are missing,the diamond will
be incomplete.



Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNM ENT FINAMCE
1981     1991     2000     2001       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      s
Consumerprices                                .....           31.3      9.8     4
Implicft GDP deflator                         ..   142.8      27.3      t19     30/
20
Government finance
MoIGDP,includes cufnntgrants)                                                    o
Current revenue                               ..    24.7      30.7      29.1           96    97   9s     99    00    01
Current budget balance                         .      3.1     -0.7       17
Overall surplus/deficit                        .     04        -2.9    -0.5            -G   DP ddlaor   -o:-CPI
TRADE
(USS millions)                             198t    1991     2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..      ..       477      569    t1oo
Live animals and animal products            ..       ..       23        30     1,200
Vegetable products                          ..       ..       68       o8      Voo
M anufactures                                ..          ..    96      S4       a
Total Imports (cif)                           ..      ..       793      882     ioo   _    _                      i
Food                                        ..           ..   23        26      400
Fuel and energy                             ..                12       201      200
Capital goods                                ..      ..       97       102       o   _    _                 E    S
ExportpriceIndex(1996WVO)                                       68       B9           95   go   97   99  99   00    01
Import priceindex(996=10)                     ..               175      170                aExports      Importos
Terms of trade (196-VO)                               ..        39       41
BALANCE of PAYM ENTS
(US$ milio ns)                             1981    1991      2000     2001       Current account balance to GDP (#)
Exports of goods and services                ..       ..       640      739      e
Imports of goods and services                ..       ..       990     t1lD          _
Resource balance                              ..      ..      -350     -362     -s        *         -
Net income                                    ..               76        92     -to
Net current transfers                        ..       ..       S7       152
Current account balance                      ..       ..       -121     -t19
Financing items (net)                         ..      ..       172      130     -20
Changes in net reserves                                       --51      -12     25
MAemo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)       ..       ..       218      227
Conversion rate (DEC, iocaVUSS)              ..       ..      12.4      2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1991     1991     2000      2001
(US$ millons)                                                                    Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstending and disbursed          ..      ..     1246      1226
IBRD                                        ..                11       181
IDA                             '       03                             18                      G 23    A 1
Total debt service                            ..               139      182
IBRD                                        ..        ..       18                                            B13
IDA                                         ..      ..          1        1              -                    B1u 
Compositlon of net resource fows                                                  F. st      
Officlal grnts                              ..      ..        75      132
Official creditors                          ..      ..        38        3                                     C 151
Private creditors                           ..      ..        80       -4
Foreign direct Investment                   ..      ..        28       149
Portfolio equity                                               3        0                              D 117
E 123
Wbrid Bank program
Commitments                                         ..                  S      A - IBRD                   E - Bllaterd
Disbursements                               ..      ..        38        8      B-IDA    D0 thermtilterld  F-Private
Principal repayments                        ..      ..         5        7      C-IMF                      G - Short-tarm
Net flows                                   ..      ..        31        11
Interest payments                           ..      ..        12        n1
Net transfers                               ..      ..        19        0
Development Economics                                                                                            5123102



Annex 2
Page I of 2
Moldova
Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants)
As of May 6,2002
Closed Projects              9
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)                         63.7
of which has been repaid                    1.4
Total Disbursed (Closed)                        284.3
of which has been repaid                   19.2
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)              347.9
of which has been repaid                   20.5
Total Undisbursed (Active)                      41.3
Total Undisbursed (Closed)                       0.8
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)             42.2
Active Projects                                                                                                             Difference Between
Last PSR                                                          Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating               Original Amount in US$ Millions        Disbursements a/
ProjectlID Project Name                                  DO         IP     Fiscal     IBRD      IDA    Cancel.     Undisb.      Orig.    Frm Rev'd
Year
P008561   Private Sector Development I                    S         S       1996        35.0                           0.1        2.7           2.7
P008558   General Education                               S         S       1997        16.8     5.0       5.5         8.4        8.5           4.3
P035811   Private Sector Development 11                   S         S       1997                 9.0                   3.3        3.8
P035771   First Cadastre                                  S         S       1998                15.9                   7.1        4.5
P044840   Social Investment Fund                         HS         S       1999                15.0                   4.9       -1.2
P051173   Social Protection                               S         S       1999                11.1                   8.3        3.5
P051174   Health Investment Fund                          S         S       2001                10.0                   9.2        3.5
51.8    66.0        5.5       41.3        25.3          7.0



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
MOLDOVA
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of March 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                             Disbursed
FY Approval Company             Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic       Loan   Equity   Quasi      Partic
1997 INCON               3.76    2.00    0.00    0.00         3.76    2.00    0.00       0.00
2000 MECF Moldova        0.00    0.10    0.90     0.00        0.00    0.10    0.70       0.00
2000 Moldindconbank      3.00    0.00    0.00     0.00        3.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
2001 UF Moldova         25.00    0.00    0.00     0.00       10.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
2001 Victoriabank        4.00    0.00    0.00     0.00        2.70    0.00    0.00       0.00
1999/00/01  VoxTel              10.00    0.00    6.62   25.00         8.71   0.00     6.62      21.79
Total Portfolio:       45.76    2.10     7.52   25.00       28.17    2.10    7.32      21.79
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
2000 Fincombank           1.5       0       0       0
Total Pending Commitment:     1.5       0       0       0



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.     Time Taken to prepare:                          10 months
2.     Prepared by:                                    Government assisted by IDA staff
3.     Preparation missions:                           May 7 - June 23, 2001
4.     Pre-Appraisal:                                  July 30 - August 15, 2001
5.     Pre-Appraisal (2nd mission):                    October 2 - October 19, 2001
6.     Appraisal:                                      March 11 - 19, 2002
7.     Negotiations:                                   April 22 - 26, 2002
8.     Planned Board presentation:                     June 18, 2002
9.     Estimated date of effectiveness/first tranche:  June 2002
10.    Estimated date of second tranche:               November/December 2002
11.    Estimated date of third tranche:                March/April 2003
12.    Expected program completion:                    September 30, 2003
Staffing
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director:   Roger W. Grawe (ECC07)
Sector Director:  Cheryl Gray (ECSPE)
Sector Manager:    Samuel Otoo (ECSPE)
Responsible Staff:   Mark Davis (Team Leader, ECSPE), Harry Broadman (Team Leader, ECSPE),
Larry Bouton, Maya Sandu, Elena Nikulina, Jariya Hoffman, Nancy Davies-Cole
(ECSPE), Hoonae Kim, Anatol Gobjila (ECSSD), Vladislav Vucetic, Sandu
Ghidirim (ECSEG), Roy Pepper (PSAPP), Andrew Ewing (Consultant), Gareth
Locksley (EMMTI), David Satola (LEGOP), Irina Astrakhan, Lucia Buzdugan
(ECSPF), James Cercone (Consultant), Joana Godinho, Anush Bezhanyan,
Reema Nayar, Alexei Ionascu (ECSHD), Viorica Strah (ECCMD), Hans Jurgen
Gruss, Zoe Kolovou (LEGEC)
Contributors:   Carlos Elbirt (ECCMD), Suman Mehra, Celine Ng (ECCA2), Lawrence Hannah,
Gurcharan Singh, Joao Oliveira, Neil Parison (ECSPE), Sonja Brajovic-
Bratanovic (ECSPF), Olusoji Adeyi (ECSHD), Laura Tuck (ECCSD), Theodor
Stolojan (Consultant), Lars Jeurling (Consultant), Nora Dudwick (ECSSD),
Slavian Gutu (ECCMD) Jerzy Osiatynski (Consultant), Jorge Martinez
(Consultant), Gordon Johnson (LEGPS)
Peer Reviewers:    Kevin Cleaver (RDV), Christiaan Poortman (ECC04)



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 1 of 22
To:   James D. Wolfensohn,
President, The World Bank
GOVERNMIENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
LE TTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. Moldova's economic development during the last two years has been encouraging.
Macroeconomic stability has been maintained and structural reforms have started to show
positive results. Real GDP increased by 2.1 percent in 2000 and over 6 percent in 2001.
Inflation dropped from 18 percent in 2000 to under 6.4 percent in 2001. Real interest rates
are falling. The budget delicit on a commitment basis accounted for only 0.82 percent of
GDP in 2000 and has decreased by over 7.3% of GDP since 1998. Pension arrears have
been eliminated and general budgetary arrears are being reduced. However, a large stock
of external debt has accumulated over the last decade, and especially after the 1998
exchange rate devaluation. Debt service now represents a serious threat to these
macroeconomic achievements and may impede and further delay the resilience of our
economy.
2. We believe that adherence to market oriented policies will send a strong signal to the
business community, both at home and abroad, that we are serious about reforn and that
Moldova is a good place i;o do business. We are thus committed to maintaining a sound
macroeconomic framework, including servicing our external debts and realizing a sustained
growth dynamic. We are taking steps to maintain a good tax policy, simplify and
streamline tax administration, refrain from tax offset operations and to collect taxes in cash.
This is being done in parallel with other measures, such as continued restructuring and
privatization efforts in the energy sector which will help increase budget discipline. Our
macroeconomic policies aim to maintain low levels of inflation, continue to bring down
real interest rates, ensure external sustainability and attract much needed domestic and
foreign investment. In the fiscal area, we have already eliminated formerly unfunded
energy compensations to the population and we will continue to eliminate other unfunded
expenditure commitments. We will also continue to rationalize expenditure commitments
more broadly. The 2002 Budget of the General Government stipulates a primary surplus of
3 percent of GDP and a commitments deficit of 1.2 percent of GDP. Improvements in
fiscal policy is creating conditions that will continue to bring down interest rates and
increase project lending tby banks, while increasing our access to greater concessional
financing.
3. The Government is coimmitted to maintain and continue progress on economy-wide
structural reforms toward a market economy and refrain from any actions that would
jeopardize this objective. We recognize that this is the only path towards achieving
improvements in medium- and long-term prospects of sustained development.
Improvements in growth performance would necessarily come from increased private
sector activity in agriculture, agro-processing and other export-oriented production units,
the services sector, and through the creation of new markets for Moldovan exports which
benefit from our comparative advantages such as in agricultural land and human capital.



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 2 of 22
This requires us to attract increased levels of private and foreign investment in the above-
mentioned sectors, and rationalize investment away from inefficient and unproductive uses
to more productive ones. To achieve this, we will strive towards creating an enabling
environment, by increasing macroeconomic stability, improving business conditions,
further liberalizing the economy, and deepening privatization, to generate greater
incentives for increased private and foreign investment.
4. The Government is determined to continue its reform efforts, to ensure economic
progress, financial stability, and protection of the vulnerable. The Government believes
that the structural reform program has yet to build the critical mass of reforms necessary to
achieve a tangible change in the economy, and is committed to the continuation and
completion of the program to fully achieve its goals. Therefore, the objective of the
activities of the Government, in cooperation with the World Bank, is to promote structural
adjustment of the national economy and creation of the conditions for stable growth,
focused on the stimulation of private sector development, while preserving financial
viability of the economy. In achieving these goals, we have identified a set of fundamental
policy measures aimed at generation of inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
5. Broadly, these policies focus on two areas: poverty alleviation and improvement of the
business environment. The reform programs to alleviate poverty encompasses (i)
improvement of poverty analysis, monitoring and evaluation, (ii) improving social service
delivery in education and health, and (iii) strengthening social protection and the pension
system. Regarding improvement of the business environment, the Government reform
program includes measures to (i) harden budget constraints and improve fiduciary
management, (ii) reform the business administrative framework, (iii) reform the
agricultural sector, (iv) reform the energy sector, and (v) improve and accelerate the
privatization process (legal framework, telecom, and wineries). The following sections
outline the Government program and measures that we intend to implement supported by
the SAC III operation.
A. Poverty Alleviation and Improved Social Service Delivery
6. Moldova is one of the poorest countries in Europe despite progress in maintaining a
stable macroeconomic environment and implementing structural reforms. Its GDP per
capita in 2001 was about US$ 400, or about one half of the 1995 figure, which is
significantly below the average for CIS and Central European countries. Poverty indicators
reflect increased and persistent poverty incidence, especially after the 1998 Russian Crisis.
The World Bank Poverty Dynamic Study shows an increase in poverty from 47 percent in
1997 to 67.6 percent in 1999 and 68 percent in 2000. Social indicators (as measured by life
expectancy, infant mortality, death rate, and literacy rate) lag behind those in European and
CIS countries and point to a deteriorating standard of living in Moldova. The health status
of the population has declined considerably and the quality of education has also suffered.
7. Given these developments, the Government is committed to poverty alleviation. An
Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper was approved in 2000 which outlines a three
pillar strategy: (i) sustainable and inclusive economic growth, (ii) improved human
development through better delivery of social services, and (iii) strengthened and better
targeted social protection. At that time, it was envisaged that the preparation of a full



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 3 of 22
PRSP would be completed by end 2001. However, a parliamentary election in early 2001
resulted in a sea-change cf Government which led to implementation delays, The process
has since resumed. A "PRSP Coordination Council" has been established and is chaired by
the President which oversees the development and implementation of a full PRSP.
Together with the Coordination Council, we will prepare and adopt an updated interim
PRSP and develop a full PR,1SP in collaboration with domestic and external partners.
8. The Government appreciates that all three pillars are essential to reduce poverty.
Growth is essential for expanding economic opportunities for poor people. To achieve
inclusive and sustainable growth, it will be particularly important to pay attention to market
reforms targeted to poor people. Such reforms include improvements in the business
environment, especially for small and medium enterprises, which are key to creation of
employment opportunities. It will also be important to help people accumulate wealth,
build the human capital and improve access to good quality basic social services. We
recognize that strategic decisions are necessary to better allocate and improve efficiency of
our very limited resources in the delivery of social services. Toward this end, we are
developing strategies to deepen structural reforms of our health and education sectors. This
will lay the foundation for a financially sustainable long term investment strategy in the
sector. Finally, it will be important to reduce people's vulnerability in old age by improving
the effectiveness and fiscal sustainability of the pensions system, and ensuring that social
assistance programs are well targeted to the poorest and assist them in meeting immediate
consumption needs while protecting their accumulation of human, physical and social
assets.
A. 1. Poverty Analysis, Mlonitoring and Evaluation
9. In the process of developing a full-PRSP we have learned that an important barrier to
developing informed poverty-focused policies is our lack of capacity to collect information,
monitor poverty and conduct poverty analysis. Another important barrier is the lack of
consensus on methodology to identify the poor and therefore to analyze the impacts of
policies on the poor. As a practical step, we plan to improve the quality of data and
analysis pertaining to poverty. We have initiated the preparation of the medium-term plan
which will clarify the roles and responsibilities and improve the capacity of different
agencies involved in poverty analysis, monitoring, and evaluation. This plan will identify
the core indicators that will be used to measure the different dimensions of poverty
including consumption, but also human and physical assets. It envisages a clear
assignment of responsibility for data collection and data sharing. It also calls for the
creation of an institutional framework for monitoring poverty that coincides with that for
the design of poverty reduction policies - including within economic sub-sectors. The plan
will be approved by the Government by May 17, 2002.
10. We will implement steps in the medium term to improve the quality of existing data
sources and to introduce the new surveys needed to provide accurate and reliable
information on the different dimensions of poverty. We will improve the existing
household surveys (HBS,, LFS). In particular, we will improve the sampling frame for
these surveys based on sound technical recommendations. We have already developed
revised questionnaires that will improve our information on access to health care and
education. We will implement these modules as well as improved modules on social



May 10, 2002                                                     Annex 4
Page 4 of 22
protection programs. We appreciate that the quality of the poverty monitoring database
(including the household surveys) depends crucially on the availability of an updated
demographic census and we will carry out an updated census and allocate the required
funding for this.
11. At present, different agencies (MOE, MLSP, DSS) are developing their own measures
of consumption-based poverty for individuals and households. As a result, these poverty
estimates in-country vary widely. Therefore, we will emphasize the collaborative
development of and consensus on the methodology for poverty measurement, including the
establishment of an absolute poverty line. The collaboration and consensus will be
between all groups within the Government involved in the development and
implementation of sectoral poverty reduction strategies as well as in the collection and
implementation of the poverty monitoring data, and will include key line ministries
including agriculture, health, education, social protection, the DSS, as well as the core
central ministries (MOF, MOE). Key groups outside the Government, including donors
and local researchers will also be consulted on this methodology. Such a methodology,
consistent with international practice, will be approved by the Government by the fourth
quarter of 2002, and will become the basis of regular poverty monitoring. The inter-
ministerial group defined above, together with non-governmental researchers will
constitute a "users group" and will undergo training on creation of analytical quantitative
measures of poverty, as well as design and assessment of poverty-focused policies.
12. We will regularly disseminate the results on the identified indicators on the different
dimensions of poverty. We will also release the household data used for poverty
monitoring and analysis, to the public including non-governmental researchers.
A. 2. Improved Social Service Delivery: Education Reform
13. The Government has been implementing, with assistance from the World Bank, a
reform program to improve the quality of primary and lower secondary education. A new
institutional structure for curriculum has been established and the curriculum revised,
learning assessment has been improved and new national examinations have been
introduced at grades 4 and 9. Textbooks for core subjects are being provided for basic
education grades and are being financed through an innovative textbook rental scheme that
makes textbooks more affordable to parents. Additionally, teachers are receiving in-service
training in new curricula, teaching methods, and assessment. These reforms are having a
positive impact on the quality of basic education system and on the process of teaching and
learning in the classroom. We appreciate, of course that we will need to continue these
reforms, monitor their outcomes, and make continuous improvements, and ensure that all
aspects of the reform are coordinated with each other. To sustain and build on the
achievements to date, and recognizing the importance of good quality basic education, we
will continue to fund these quality improvements in the coming years. We are also
committed to preserve and build upon the positive institutions and practices that have been
established. These include the National Council for Curriculum and Evaluation and the
professional and consultative processes for curriculum revision, an independent and
adequately staffed Department of Evaluation and Assessment, and the use of transparent
and competitive methods for the procurement of textbooks. The latter will be facilitated by



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 5 of 22
autonomous management of the Textbook Rental Fund by an inter-ministerial Steering
Committee.
14. We realize, at the same time, that a more comprehensive structural reform of the
education sector is needed in order to protect and improve quality. While our schools
continue to struggle to rnaintain education standards, chronic financial difficulties have
given rise to distortions in the sector. In particular, we are concerned about the growing
inequities in the access for children from low income families and the lack of poverty-
targeting of budget studenirs by our universities.
15. The Government recognizes that a realistic reform strategy for the education will
need to be financially sustainable. On the one hand we face the challenges of rapidly
deteriorating and energy inefficient physical infrastructure. These impose significant
demands on resources that are difficult to meet. At the same time, they threaten the safety
and quality of the school!s and classrooms, and therefore the quality of the pedagogical
process. On the other hand, the consequences of dramatic demographic changes, and the
decline of the birth rate to below replacement levels, poses serious investment and system
rationalization choices. Each of these also calls for a reappraisal of the supply and demand
for teachers and ancillary staff, and for adjustments to the systems for pre-service and in-
service training.
16. To meet these challenges, with profound social and strategic consequences, the
Ministry of Education will develop the capacity and capability for policy analysis and
strategic planning in the medium and longer term. This change will be supported by an
Educational Management Information System (EMIS), that ensures that managers have
access to the relevant data and information for decision-making. We have already initiated
improvements in our existing database; in particular, we have already created detailed
information for three judets. The analysis of these databases demonstrates many of the
short, medium and longer term challenges facing our educational system. We recognize
that a good information system will need to address both the demand and supply side of
information, and would also like to use the existing databases as a foundation for moving
forward on the development of a national EMIS. We will therefore undertake, by the
fourth quarter of 2002, a series of actions, including the finalization and dissemination of
the analyses on the basis of existing databases, a review of the legal framework governing
educational management (including implications for employment relations), and the
creation of a working group to start the initial planning of an EMIS. We will also carefully
examine the experiences of other transition countries with improvements in infrastructure
efficiency and system optimization, and improving management of education.
17. At the same time, we will undertake studies and surveys on selected topics to better
inform the development of our strategy to improve the quality and equity of basic
education and to address the alarming inequalities that have arisen in our education system
in recent years. These include a study on finances available to schools, as well as informal
payments by families for pre-tertiary education, on the state of the physical infrastructure
and improving energy effikiency, and teacher staffing needs and the role of pre-service and
in-service training institulions. Toward this end, by the first quarter of 2003, we will
prepare and approve an education reform policy paper which addresses, among other
inequalities, the (a) reduced completion rates and poor attendance in basic education,



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 6 of 22
particularly among poor children; and (b) higher education selection and financial support
mechanisms to ensure the access to higher education of students from poor households.
A. 3. Improved Social Service Delivery: Health Reform
18. The overall objective of the reform program in the health sector is to obtain better
equity, improved health status and value-for-money in the health care system through
improvements in the efficiency, quality and effectiveness of the services provided. Over
the past few years, the Government has made substantial progress in confronting the
emerging crisis in the sector. To address budget constraints, excess capacity and quality
concems, the number of hospitals and hospital beds was reduced, and judet health
authorities have proceeded to downsize ancillary buildings that were under-utilized in order
to use resources previously spent on infrastructure and energy more effectively. Further,
many judet health authorities are preparing and implementing detailed strategies for
investing on primary and emergency care and consolidating excess capacity at the hospital
level.. To address the challenges ahead, the Government will maintain firm support of the
reform process that has been started at the regional level by implementing a national health
system restructuring program centered on four key pillars: a) strengthening the primary
care network, b) improving the allocation of resources to ensure a more equitable and
efficient orientation of healthcare resources, c) restructuring the health system at the
national and judet levels, and d) strengthening the quality of health care staff.
19. Strengthening of the primary care network will enable us to meet most of the
population's health needs, simultaneously increasing the quality of medical services
provided and shifting staff and financial resources from hospitals to family medicine.
Toward this end the Government has already established a Health Investment Fund which
has been instrumental in reactivating investment in primary care and we envisage several
follow-up phases of investment to build a top-quality primary care network. To strengthen
the primary care sector our program focuses on: (i) ensuring an adequate and increasing
financing of the public health sector basic services from the budget; (ii) reallocating some
medical staff from hospital to primary care after they have been accordingly retrained to fit
the required activity; (iii) providing the primary care sector with an adequate level of
funding for an appropriate provision with essential drugs and necessary equipment; (iv)
improving and up-dating treatment standards in line with international norms; (v)
strengthening emergency services as a key element of improving the primary health care;
and (vi) strengthening and consolidating emergency care centers in regional hospitals.
20. Improving the allocation of resources to ensure a more equitable and efficient
orientation of healthcare resources will enable us to achieve a better utilization of finances
and to appropriately meet the health needs of the population. Given the current economic
crisis facing our country, the budgetary resources allocated to healthcare system have been
reduced to a minimum. The Government's intention is to ensure that the majority of these
funds are allocated to guarantee access to a minimum package of essential services and
pharmaceuticals. It is our intention to develop a healthcare system that will ensure free
access to these services for the entire population. Toward this end the Government plans to
develop by the first quarter of 2003 a diagnostic mechanism that would provide a basis for
informed policy decisions in health sector finance through analysis of (i) the use of
financial resources spent on various levels of health care services (e.g., primary care,



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 7 of 22
hospitals, and public health), (ii) sources of financing, and (iii) the effectiveness of the
utilization of resources. Work on such a mechanism is crucial for informed discussion of
health finance reforms, including revenue generation and equity/redistribution across
judets, as well as informed decisions on a health insurance scheme. We plan to adjust the
essential minimum health services to the resources available in the budget. We also
propose to allow local authorities flexibility in providing additional services to those agreed
in the basic package and to finance care for specific risk groups. Furthermore, we will
allocate at least 35 percent of the health budget resources to cover the essential services,
focused on primary care and national public health priorities. We will also explore ways to
implement alternative sources of financing health care including, and the introduction of a
hospital reimbursement mechanism based on patients treated and results obtained reversing
the traditional budgeting process based on inputs (e.g., patients treated versus beds and
staff). However, greater focus will be placed on the design issues related to developing a
sustainable health insurance system: finding equilibrium between the real resources
available and the benefits to be provided, rather than on the preparation of regulations and
statutes. The Government will address the outstanding financing issues within the existing
macroeconomic framework, with the use of best practice for health insurance design and
through a better understanding of what has worked and what has not in other CIS countries.
21. Restructuring the health system at the national and judet levels will allow better use
of public funds by reducinig expenditures on maintenance of infrastructure and unnecessary
energy costs while refocusing them on essential health services. Thus the reform focuses
on restructuring the medical services provider network with a consolidation of the existing
infrastructure and a reoriientation of resources from the curative, specialized level care,
towards basic primary care. The Government, the Municipality of Chisinau and the Judet
Health Authorities have already taken concrete steps in this direction: (i) the number of
hospitals decreased from 253 to 65; (ii) the number of hospital beds decreased by 50
percent; (iii) the Republican Health-Sports Dispensary has been closed, (iv) Chisinau
Municipal Hospital Number 2 has been closed, (v) the Chisinaus Narcological Institute has
been consolidated with the Republic Narcological Institute; and (vi) more than 100
ancillary facilities have been closed. The Government has continued the consolidation of
Republican Hospitals and the Chisinau Municipal Hospitals by adopting a decree to
eliminate 90 beds at the Republican Trauma Hospital and 65 beds at the Children's
Hospital; an additional 7(1 beds from Children's Hospital services available at the Institute
of Maternal and Child Care, which will allow for further downsizing. This will improve
the efficiency of public expenditures as it eliminates low value-add facilities through
rationalization. By the fourth quarter of 2002, we will approve a time-bound Hospital
Restructuring Plan for further elimination of excess capacity at the 17 Republican Hospitals
and the Chisinau Municipatlity Hospitals We will then initiate its implementation.
22. The territorial reforms introduced in 1999 develop a decentralized framework for the
management of the heallhcare delivery system. As part of the implementation process
associated with the decentralization, the Government will separate the healthcare providers
and financing functions (purchaser-provider split) to optimize medical care and to increase
the accountability at the local level. At the same time, changes will be required at the
central level to improve the policy making and regulatory capacity of the central level
Ministry of Health. The development of these policies will help ensure the following
actions are taken: (i) publ'icly funded healthcare services will be purchased from accredited



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 8 of 22
medical facilities on a contract basis between health authorities (the purchaser) and health
facilities (the provider); (ii) over the next several years, the majority of all health care
providers will become autonomous entities and will no longer be financed from the
Govemment budget; the legislative framework will be a critical element to guarantee the
success of this activity; (iii) efforts will be made to sell non-productive assets that have
resulted from the dramatic downsizing that has taken place over the past several years; (iv)
the Ministry of Health will strengthen its policy making and regulatory capacity to improve
oversight in the system and to develop the strategic vision required to guide the sector
through the difficult reform process; (v) the Govemment will restructure health service
providers to allow them to be financially and managerially autonomous and run by
professional managers; and (vi) the Govemment will revise its drug purchasing policy to
allow wholesale procurement through a competitive tender mechanism and to ensure the
provision of a basic package of pharmaceuticals to all citizens.
23. We will strengthen the quality of our workforce through actions aimed at improving
the clinical management of illness with the introduction of modem protocols, strengthening
institutional capacity through training physicians and improving management to improve
value for money in the healthcare system. Taking into account the present infrastructure
and the social-economic situation of public health sector, these measures will be urgently
initiated to ensure that the most pressing needs are met within a period of two to four years.
24. Without substantial increases in the capacity of our healthcare professionals it will be
difficult to carry out the aforementioned reforms. We propose two parallel activities. First,
we will carry out and approve a human resource restructuring plan that will undertake an
inventory of the existing staffing levels and conditions in all health facilities, provide a
clear framework and estimate financing needs for further downsizing. The plan will
promote the reassignment of staff to underserved areas, ensure changes in medical
education - including policies and standards for training specialist physicians - to provide
for an adequate supply of medical professionals in accordance with the population's needs
and resource levels. It will also introduce altemative contracting mechanisms that combine
fixed salary with variable salary based on performance indicators and productivity. Second,
development of primary care and improving efficiency at the hospital level will require the
development of new skills. We will support retraining of physicians and professional
staff, and improvements in their management capacity.
A. 4. Strengthened Social Protection: Social Assistance and Pension Reform
25. The current system of social protection continues to suffer from weak targeting of the
poor. The Poverty Assessment of the World Bank (1999) found that targeting of existing
programs is poor, and there is a positive relationship between income level and the social
protection transfers received by members of the population. The Govemment recognizes
that Moldova cannot afford this inefficiency - social protection transfers need to be well
targeted to the poorest strata of the population if they are to have their desired impact on
poverty. Some success was achieved in 2000, in improving the targeting efficiency of
utility and energy compensations. The Govemment recognizes that the targeting efficiency
of these subsidies needs to be further improved. In part the targeting of social protection
programs is poor because the Govemment is currently using categorical based targeting
methods to identify and target the poorest in society and these do not work well in



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 9 of 22
Moldova. Available household data needs to be improved and used more effectively for
monitoring the targeting efficiency of social assistance programs and for improving the
design of these programs. Moving forward we will improve collection and analysis of data
that can be used to target the poor as outlined in section A.I. above. Also, assisted by
better data and analytical capacity, and as part of the PRSP process, the Government
intends to develop a medium term strategy to improve the targeting of social assistance to
protect the poorest and must vulnerable sections of the population.
26. Under the 1998 pens-ion reform, significant progress has been made in rationalizing
the pay-as-you-go system by establishing a strong linkage between individual contributions
made and pensions received and gradual increase of retirement age. Moreover, most of the
privileges have been eliminated and the transparency and equity of the state pension system
has been improved. These reforms have already produced significant results: pension
arrears have been eliminated, cash collections have been increased, and the Social
Insurance Budget has recorded a small surplus. However, the Government is concerned
about the still very low general public pensions received by the majority of pensioners as
well as the large discrepancies in the pension levels between different categories remaining
in the system.
27. The Government is committed to continue implementation of the pension reform by
following the fundamental principles incorporated in the 1998 State Social Security
Pension Law, including the originally agreed pension formula, a gradual increase in
retirement age, and elimination of pension privileges. At the same time, we are planning to
introduce necessary minimum amendments to that legislation intended to further improve
the system. Our programi will focus on two sets of amendments. The first set will
introduce a transparent and affordable pension indexation rule to be applied to all future
pension increases which maintains the reformed pension structure. The second aims to
further improve transparency and fairness of the pension system through incorporating a
pension provision for selected professional categories currently pensioned under separate
legislation. To inform design of these amendments, we will prepare by May 17, 2002,
long-term financial projections to evaluate the impact of the proposed legislative changes
on the pension system and future pensioners. Our program also envisages further
development of the pension reform policy for farmers and the self-employed consistent
with, but not necessarily identical to, the reformed pension structure. We will prepare a
strategy paper by the first quarter of 2003. At the same time, we will put greater emphasis
on improving the pension system administration.
B. Improvements in the Business Environment
B. 1. Hardening Budget Constraints and Improving Fiduciary Management
28. To achieve sustainable and accelerated economic growth and poverty alleviation over
the medium and long-temi, the Government is committed to maintaining fiscal discipline
and improving fiduciary management. We have successfully restrained the fiscal deficit
while also increasing tax collection; expenditure arrears have also been reduced
substantially. Netting operations have been progressively eliminated. In 2001 cash
collection of State budgetary revenues reached 98%, and of the Social Insurance budgetary
revenues, it was 121%. Domestic expenditure arrears of the consolidated budget have been



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 10 of 22
brought down significantly during the past few years, and the National Pension House has
fully eliminated its social insurance budget arrears in 2001. To improve financial
management, we established the single treasury system to service the State Budget. In
2001, we established a Cash Management Unit in the Treasury to improve cash flow
forecasting and management. We also strengthened public debt management by
consolidating foreign and domestic debt departments into a single unit while improving its
front, middle, and back office functions that provide support to senior managers in
developing and implementing a comprehensive and proactive public debt strategy based on
the country's debt sustainability analysis.
29. We have completed the extension of the treasury system to the local government
levels, marked by the inclusion of Chisinau Municipality. This measure enhanced the
control of expenditure at the local government levels where the majority of domestic
expenditure arrears are accumulated. We will continue to prohibit netting operations in the
State and Social Insurance Budgets, and increase cash collection to 100 percent for
revenues of the State and Social Fund budgets. We will also prohibit in-kind transfers from
the State Budget to Local Governments and to the Social Insurance Budget. We are
committed to stop building new and reduce domestic payment arrears of the Consolidated
Budget (including the Social Insurance Budget) in order to limit the impact of poverty
incidence on the poor.
30. We recognize that subsidies for specific sectors do not promote efficient use of
budgetary resources, especially under tight fiscal pressure. Limited resources should be
prioritized based on the efficiency and effectiveness of sectoral programs. To this end, by
May 17, 2002, we will eliminate all public sector financial support for the wine and
tobacco sectors by, (i) issuing a Government Resolution which stipulates measures for the
elimination of all public sector financial support, including investments, loans and credits,
and subsidies, related to raw material production, processing and trade in the tobacco and
winery sectors, beginning with enactment of the 2003 Budget and thereafter, and/or
modification or elimination of any other related existing mechanisms; and (ii) enacting
legislative amendments to eliminate earmarking of all tax revenues to the wine and tobacco
sectors, including those specified in Art. 18(2) of the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco
Products (No. 386-XV) and Art. 22 of the Law on Vineyards and Wine (No. 1166-XIV).
We will fully implement these measures.
31. Recognizing the importance of the wine sector for the Moldovan economy, the
Government has recently approved a decision to establish a Wine Department that will
engage in export promotion activities. However, we will ensure that the activities of this
Department will not undercut functions of the market system through the provision of
direct and indirect financial support to private wineries. Further, the Government will not
introduce any earmarked taxes to create new extra budgetary funds for this purpose.
32. Amendments to the Law on Restructuring of Farms Undergoing Privatization will be
enacted by May 17, 2002, to ensure that only farmers who have undergone the National
Land Program or fully adhere to the principles of the National Land Program will be
eligible to have their debts restructured or written off. Furthermore, we will ensure that any
other agricultural enterprises debt write off or restructuring will be consistent with the Law
on Insolvency. Targeted energy compensations continue to be paid in full and on time.



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 11 of 22
33. To improve fiduciary management and increase transparency and accountability of
the public sector, we will collaborate with IDA to launch a review of the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA). The CFAA will provide a comprehensive diagnostic
and assessment of the country's public financial accountability arrangements, including its
systems for public expenditure management, procurement, and financial management. The
report will highlight the status of the financial accountability for the use of the public
resources in Moldova. To this end, the Government will prepare an analysis highlighting
the strength and weakness of major users of public resources. By the fourth quarter of
2002, we will adopt and implement an action plan recommended by the CFAA to improve
the financial accountability in Moldova both in the central government and also in the local
government institutions.
34. By May 17, 2002, the Government will also seek enactment of amendments to the
law on Court of Accounts (CoA) so that the CoA's mandate is limited to audit the use of
public funds. The Court of Accounts is an oversight organization and should not have
prosecutorial role. The Government is the ultimate controller of public resources and the
Court of Accounts will provide its opinion on the public accounts and also the financial
statements prepared by each budget organizations. To further strengthen internal control
for use of public resources, by the fourth quarter of 2002, the Ministry of Finance will
reorganize the internal audit system as to increase independence and capacity.
B. 2. Reform of Business Administrative Framework
35. Many Moldovan firms, whether publicly or privately owned, have been plagued by
low profitability, accumulation of arrears (to the budget, to energy enterprises and to each
other), and declining production and employment. In part this has been due to an adverse
macro-environment, the loss of traditional markets and inadequate access to financial
resources. But this is also the result of an institutional framework for business
development and investment that is not based on market incentives.
36. Previous governments took steps to establish a legal framework for enterprise reform
and restructuring with the passage of laws on bankruptcy and restructuring. A Creditor
Council was also established to deal with companies in arrears. In addition the Agency for
Enterprise Restructuring aid Assistance (ARIA) was established to provide assistance to
insolvent enterprises in (leveloping and implementing restructuring and/or liquidation
plans. However, only limited progress has been made in restructuring enterprises. The
Government recognized that there is an opportunity and an urgent necessity for realigning
the production base of enaterprises, especially large loss-makers. The Government has
taken further steps in improving the legal framework for bankruptcy by enacting a new
Law on Insolvency, which contains both liquidation and restructuring chapters for court-led
and out-of court proceedings and introduces improvements based on experience gained in
the past years. The Government is aware that strengthening of the legal environment must
be complemented by explicit efforts to strengthen the capacity of the economic courts and
the skills of the judges and court workers to implement the law.
37. At the heart of our efforts to reform the business environment, we believe that it is not
possible to develop a market-based economy in Moldova on the basis of the Soviet Civil



May 10, 2002                                                       Annex 4
Page 12 of 22
Code, which regulated the relations of a planned economy. Therefore, the govemment is
committed to enact, by the fourth quarter of 2002, of a new market-oriented Civil Code
which will clearly stipulate the regulation of property rights and other real rights; will
include the norms and regulations related to mortgages and pledges (subsuming Law on
Pledges enacted on July 30, 2001); and will completely define the regulation of a set civil
matter, including all general and special norms. The new Civil Code will require that all
other laws will be brought into conformity with it.
38. In order to facilitate business's access to finance, the Government has made a
significant effort to enact a new Law on Pledge. The law introduces a new concept of the
Pledge Registry and provides the needed regulation of relations between the pledgor and
pledgee. In addition, the Government is committed to eliminate, by May 17, 2002,
stipulations in the Tax Code for VAT which levy VAT on fixed assets brought in as
statutory capital of an enterprise. By eliminating a double taxation, these changes will
eliminate a source of discrimination against business reorganization in a low-liquid market,
thus encouraging better allocation of productive resources while reducing the costs of
doing business.
39. The Government is also committed to the removal of administrative barriers to
business entry and exit, which is critical to enhance private sector development, reduce
transactions costs for business, especially individual entrepreneurs and SMEs, and
encourage foreign direct investment. Significant effort was made by the Government to
enact a new Law on Licensing. The authority to issue licenses is now given only to one
institution, the Chamber of Licensing. The number of activities requiring licenses was
reduced from 106 to 55, while leaving authority of licensing for strategic industries -
telecommunications, energy and banking - to independent, qualified regulatory agencies.
With this as a start, the Government is committed to further streamlining the number of
licenses and the licensing procedure with the aim to complete it by the first quarter of 2003.
40. We will streamline the procedure of exit and de-registration, including a one-stop-
shop procedure and automatic de-registration following a set period of business in-activity.
A critical reform will be to introduce transparency and accountability into the inspection
system to reduce impediments to business activity. This will entail creation of stronger
checks and balances, enhanced coordination among the inspecting institutions,
modification of the enterprise inspection log requirement and establishment of a publicly
accessible centralized registry of enterprise inspections. We are committed to reform
inspection procedures in order to reduce business harassment and increase the efficiency of
inspections. The Govemment is committed to complete these reforms by the fourth quarter
of 2002.
41. We will institutionalize a business-government consultative mechanism, including
establishment, by the fourth quarter of 2002, of an Ombudsman office within the
Presidential Apparat to hear and act on complaints about barriers to business. We are also
committed to conducting continuous benchmarking of the business environment, by
measuring changes through regular business surveys and using their results to raise
awareness and create a common inter-ministerial platform for de-regulation and reduction
of administrative barriers. In particular, by the first quarter of 2003, we will complete a



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 13 of 22
second "Cost of Doing Business" survey and develop a policy program to implement
findings; the findings of th[e survey are to be published and disseminated widely.
42. Moldova joined the WTO in June 2001. Following this significant achievement,
substantial work is being carried out to harmonize appropriate legislation and regulations in
several areas, such as customs. The Government has started the reform of the Customs
Office in order to reduce corruption and smuggling. Progressive measures, such as the
introduction of new customs seals and the rotation of senior customs officers have been
taken. The Government is strongly committed to further reform of customs procedures.
B. 3. Agricultural Sector Reform
43. The agricultural sector contributes 33% to GDP, provides over 40% of employment
and constitutes 65% of e xports. With beverages added, this figure rises to 80% of the
country's total exports. Moreover, 54% of the population lives in rural areas and 68% of
the poor are rural resideni.s. Without addressing key issues faced by the agricultural sector,
regenerating growth in the overall economy will not be possible and Moldova will not be
able to increase critically needed foreign exchange earnings.
44. The Government of Moldova seeks to further promote sustainable growth in the
agricultural sector with an aim to create a competitive, private initiative driven sector. To
this end, the Government reconfirms its commitment to implement agricultural policies and
support agricultural institutions aimed at developing a vibrant market-oriented rural
economy. We recognize that in order to achieve these goals, concrete actions are necessary
on our part to realign pasl: policies, reevaluate current priorities that are consistent with the
overall fiscal conditions, and move forward boldly with more market-based set of policy
instruments, institutional and legal support system. In doing so, we are committed to
pursue market-based, liberal agricultural policies where synergies between the Government
and the private sector can be enhanced for improved performance fiscally, and
economically. We will st-ictly adhere to the liberal agricultural policies during the years
ahead as stated in the Memsorandum of Understanding on the Agricultural Sector signed in
December 2001 with the World Bank.
45. We place an emphasis on development of land and credit markets in agriculture. We
recognize that farm restructuring is still unfinished and much more needs to be done to help
private farmers to become truly competitive in a market economy. We remain committed
to complete privatization of remaining small number of collective farms, and continue the
restructuring of existing farm and agro-enterprises. The Government believes that the
irreversible solid foundation for developing private agriculture is in place and the next steps
would be: (a) to strengthen land ownership rights; (b) to promote development of land
markets; and (c) to provide appropriate support services to post-privatization farmers.
46. The Government assures that any new land code or amendments to the existing Land
Code will adhere to mark'ket-oriented principles that: (a) clearly define and protect land
owners' rights, including full autonomy in use/lease of their land; (b) provide for the
enforcement of real property rights through efficient institutions and effective courts; (c)
facilitate and support market-based secure transactions of property rights, backed by formal
contract procedures, and provide a court system that settles any disputes in a timely
manner; (d) provide for property rights information to be available to all persons who



May 10, 2002                                                         Annex 4
Page 14 of 22
request it; (e) limit to highly exceptional circumstances, Government restrictions on
transactions, consolidation or use of land; (f) facilitate registration and transactions at low
cost with minimum fees and taxes in the shortest possible time after application; and (g)
protect land as a resource on environmental and health grounds. Efforts are already being
made to reduce notary fees, simplifying documents requirements, reducing multi-notary
requirements, and also to make information about land prices more readily available to
potential buyers and sellers.
47. Although land privatization has largely been completed, we realize that post-privatized
farms, particularly large corporate farms continue to perform poorly. The lack of contract
enforcement has both maintained inefficient farm managers through under-payment or non-
payment to lessees, and created uncertainty for good managers as lessees exit lease
agreements prior to the expiration of lease contracts, retarding on-farm investments. Many
landowners have leased out their land to previous collective farm directors and many have
not fully realized their rights as landowners, as indicated by the number of disputes
registered at dispute resolution centers. The Govemment will support the system of clear
and enforceable ownership rights. It will reduce the transaction costs for property sales,
lease, inheritances, and provide confidence to lenders for providing secured credit against
real estate. It will also facilitate effective land management, including proper valuation and
property taxation.
48. In doing all the above, the Government will: (a) ensure that farming structure and sizes
will be ultimately determined by transparent, market based transactions, and not laws, or
decrees permitting governmental interventions on consolidation of land without the
invitation, participation and approval of all affected land owners; (b) ensure that land
transactions can take place freely without any undue administrative interference by
Government, local authorities or neighbors; (c) maintain the institutional arrangement for
the Cadastre offices, which will have trained manager, staff and institutional and
technological capacity; (d) continue to seek donor assistance in providing legal aid
services to farmers that cover a broad spectrum of legal services including an information
campaign on land owners rights, and dispute resolution and problems regarding land
transactions; and (e) carry out an information campaign for farmers about different
scenarios of, and alternatives to, land leasing and swapping, procedures associated with
these types of arrangements, types of contracts, standardized terms and conditions of lease
contracts, etc.
49. The Government is committed to ensure that there is a sound, integrated legal
framework for cooperatives based on the principles that: (a) membership should be entirely
voluntary without any cohesion by government, local authority or neighbors; (b) land
(through lease or otherwise) should not be required to be subscribed as equity into a
cooperative nor should be required for membership; (c) employment should not be
mandatory for membership in such cooperatives; (d) members should be free to exit at any
time, with their original, physically demarcated plot of land; and (e) cooperatives should be
subject to bankruptcy and liquidation similar to all other enterprises, without preference.



May 10, 2002                                                         Annex 4
Page 15 of 22
50. We also recognize that post-privatization farmers need access to know-how, market
information, and financial resources to recapitalize themselves with necessary investment
which will create the basis for future growth. Learning from the past mistakes, we reiterate
our commitment that provision of financial resources to private rural entrepreneurs will be
made through commercial financial institutions that have full autonomy in loan risk
appraisal, loan approval and rejection. In parallel, we are strongly committed to creating a
business environment that will foster development of private businesses in rural areas.
Specific measures will include provision of legal and institutional framework to create a
legal status for private individual farms, establish advisory services to provide information,
knowledge and create a sustainable rural financial system that will channel investment
credits.
51. We are committed to maintaining liberal agricultural policies for our agricultural
producers, traders and processors. The Government has already taken bold steps to further
liberalize the sector. State monopolies - Fertilitate and Cereale - have been largely
privatized to promote competition in the input and output markets for farmers. Prices have
been formally liberalized., and the system of administrative price setting for producers at all
levels of processing and wholesaling was discontinued in 1992. Furthermore, indirect
regulation through procurement prices, controlled profit margins for processors and
controlled marketing margins for traders have also been removed. The past practices of
introducing export bans (e.g. timber) or licensing requirements (e.g. on walnuts) as well as
minimum reference prices for exports has been discontinued through official repeals. State
involvement in the productive sector, such as development of a vertical monopoly in the
tobacco sector, has also been resisted. In sum, the Government is committed to
maintaining liberal pricing policies and minimal interference in trade or domestic
marketing. We reiterate cur firm position that the State will not become a direct facilitator
of trade for the private sector.
52. The Government of Moldova, like other goLvernments, plans to maintain for strategic
purposes a limited quantity of grain in a State Reserve for Grain. The reserve will be
maintained for emergency purposes only, not for market intervention. Procurement of the
grain will only be through public auction based on cash payment. We will seek
international experience to improve the current system. In particular, we will better define
the operating rules for the State Reserve regarding purchasing and sales so as to limit and
make more predictable their impact on market prices; gradually reduce the overall size of
the reserve stocks; shift some storage to private facilities thereby improving quality of
storage and encouraging lprivate warehouse development; and eliminate in-kind grain loans
or debt write-off.
53. With regard to the State Reserves, the Government is committed to: (a) limit the state
reserves to the maximum level equivalent to one and half months worth of human grain
consumption; (b) maintain the level of grain held by the Reserve in line with the country's
fiscal situation; and (c) aclhere to the following operating principles for the Reserves: (i) the
reserves would not be used to intentionally influence prices or quantities of grain on the
market and would be held only for "emergency" use; (ii) released based on clear criteria
such as domestic prices being more than 15% above GIF prices; (iii) purchases and sales
would be effected only irn cash through the commodity exchanges; and (iv) there would be
no net change in monthly grain balances (i.e., purchases and sales would be offset and



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 16 of 22
carried out only to ensure stock rotation); and (v) public institution bodies will not engage
in commodity trading of any kind, with the exception of the State Reserve Fund.
54. For the framework of the liberal agricultural regime, we will: (a) refrain from direct and
indirect price control on agricultural commodities, including any margin or profit control;
(b) discontinue all reference prices for agricultural commodities; (c) suspend all export
bans, reduce licensing and controls, and simplify procedures for import and export by
eliminating as much paperwork as possible; (d) monitor and disseminate to the public the
results of all government procurement and their financial results; (e) rely on land tax as the
main tax source for the sector; (f) increase gradually agricultural VAT comparable to other
sectors; (g) rationalize subsidy programs, favoring post-privatization restructuring of
agriculture through a transparent, non-distortionary and well targeted system of agricultural
subsidies; (h) seek prior agreement of the World Bank on design, terms and conditions of
the Agricultural Support Fund, and for the 2002 ASF to ensure that only private farmers
will be eligible and have only one time, without repeated, access to the ASF; and (h)
eliminate all other agricultural subsidies, including off-budget programs.
B. 4. Energy Sector Reform
55. The primary objective of the Government's reform program in the energy sector is to
provide efficient, reliable and affordable energy supplies and to bring prices in line with
costs. This is to be achieved through full commercialization of the sector, buttressed, where
necessary, by appropriate regulation, as well as by social policies to protect most
vulnerable groups. The efficiency incentives emphasize transparency and competition, and
provide opportunities to energy supply companies to benefit from economies of scale. We
strongly believe that commercialization, especially imposing and maintaining full cost
recovering tariffs, is not only in the interest of energy suppliers, but equally so in the
interest of energy consumers, in order to ensure efficient consumption and sustainable
supply of energy they need.
56. To avert the rapidly escalating energy crisis which occurred as a result of inadequate
policies in response to the rapidly changing conditions in energy supply in the post-
independence period, Moldova embarked on an ambitious set of reforms in the energy
sector. A new, market-oriented legal framework has been developed, an independent
energy regulatory agency-ANRE-established, and the sector's vertical monopolies
unbundled. Budget subsidies for energy consumption have been brought in line with
budget means and changed to better target those in need. These actions enabled
privatization and further restructuring of energy companies in 1999 and 2000. The
majority of shares in Moldovagas - the country's monopoly gas supplier - were swapped
for debt to Russia's Gazprom, and three of five electricity distribution companies (covering
more than two thirds of the market) were sold to Union Fenosa of Spain - a major
international investor and electricity operator. The country's district heating networks were
transferred from the central state to municipal governments.
57. These achievements have already brought significant benefits. Commercial
performance of Moldovagas has improved (although not yet to the level where it should be)
and supply of gas became more reliable and secure. Electricity import prices to the
privatized companies have dropped and they have been able to supply electricity practically
without interruption. The Government stopped accumulating external debts for gas and



May 10, 2002                                                       Annex 4
Page 17 of 22
electricity imports, except for the electricity supply in non-privatized areas where the state
owned electricity distribud:ion companies - RED Nord and RED Nord Vest - continue to
accumulate debt to external suppliers. Although the Government does not provide
guarantees for their electricity imports, if the performance of these two companies does not
improve, the Government may eventually have to step in to bail them out, thus becoming
liable for their external debts.
58. We are undertaking intensive efforts to privatize the Nord and Nord West distribution
companies. To that end, we hired an investment bank, and supplemented by other
assistance, we are compleiring a financial audit of their debts. We will adopt a privatization
plan by May 17, 2002 (on the basis of recommendations prepared by the privatization
advisor), with specific actions and schedule for privatization of at least 75%+l (up to
100%) of the shares of RED Nord and RED Nord-Vest to qualified strategic investor(s).
The privatization plan will include strengthening the legal framework for privatization and
examining various privatization options in the context of market responsiveness - from the
preferred option of selling majority of shares (including all shares) to a strategic investor
through a competitive tender or direct negotiations, to privatization with participation of
financial investors and international financing institutions in combination with a
management contract with a strategic investor (who would be obliged to buy certain
amount of shares as well), should market conditions prove not conducive to the first option.
The Government will seek enactment of the necessary legislative actions to facilitate
flexible approach to priveatization and investments in the privatized companies. This will
include enactment, by Mlay 17, 2002, of amendments to the Law on the Individual
Privatization Project for tlbe Electricity Power Sector Enterprises, Law on the Concept of
Privatization of the Electricity Power Sector Enterprises, Law on the Privatization Program,
and other laws as-necessary to enable successful implementation of the Privatization Plan
of the energy sector.
59. We believe that a major injection of private investment capital into the Nord and Nord
Vest companies and their improved financial performance and management are the key to
commercialization and sustainability of the energy sector. This should largely complete the
rehabilitation of the electricity sector, restoring reliable supply of electricity to the
economy. It should also lead to a positive chain reaction throughout the energy sector,
strengthening financial viability of Moldelectrica, combined heat-and-power plants (CHPs)
(improving prospects for their eventual privatization), and Moldovagas. Both through its
effect on the CHPs and tflrough better enforcement of payments of electricity by district
heating companies, it would facilitate and incentivize restructuring of the heating sector
toward a more efficient and more affordable provision of heat. A successful privatization
of the North and North-West companies and resolution of Termocom's problems would
open the possibility for suaccessful privatization of the CHPs as well. These plants need
investments to increase efficiency of their existing assets and possibly expand their electric
production capacity.
60. The Government will undertake a number of actions before launching privatization of
the Nord and Nord Vest, to assure investors of its commitment to creating business-friendly
environment in the country. The most important is to deal with the remaining problems
related to the sale of three distribution companies to Union Fenosa (UF) in February 2000.
The Government intends ito continue to ensure that the objections raised by the Court of



May 10, 2002                                                       Annex 4
Page 18 of 22
Accounts (CoA) in relation to the Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) are resolved and put
to rest. In addition, the Government will ensure that the terms of reference for the CoA
activities are clarified and redefined in a way which is not unjustifiably intrusive and
disruptive to businesses. The Government will continue to improve the policy environment
for private investment, including honoring its obligations under contracts with private
investors.
61. Although the primary responsibility for promoting development of heating systems will
be with local governments, the central government will facilitate building legal, regulatory
and institutional framework and creating other conditions conducive to development of
efficient and affordable heating, attractive to private capital. The Government will
endeavor to improve payment discipline in the gas sector and create conditions for
expanding gas supply using private capital. This is important to improve conditions for
efficient, decentralized heating systems. The Govemment will also give priority to
installing meters for controlling and recording imports and exports of gas. More
specifically, the Government, through its shareholding, will take measures to have
Moldovagas complete the metering stations at Causeni (which meters the bulk of the transit
gas) and at Hadarauti (which meters the bulk of gas imports for domestic consumption) by
the fourth quarter of 2002.
62. The Government will maintain important structural elements of the energy sector which
have already been established, and which were designed to enhance transparency,
efficiency, and financial discipline, and to facilitate privatization. Such elements include,
inter alia, keeping the combined heat-and-power plants as separate businesses from the
district heating companies, until district heating companies' financial and management
problems are solved. This is especially true in Chisinau, where merging CHP-1 and CHP-2
with Termocom - a bankrupt company with huge debts (relative to the size of the company)
and very non-transparent financial management - would only spread the problem. The
Government is restructuring Termocom through a bankruptcy process, opening up the
company and revealing its financial dealings to the creditors, which will help identify and
address the problem. Similarly, the Government will maintain the status of
Moldtranselectro (MTE), an energy sector debt-holding company (holding the bulk of the
sector's historic debts), which has no operational role in the sector and no source of income
other than historic receivables. In particular, the Government will not merge MTE with
Moldelectrica, nor otherwise burden Moldelectrica with sector's historical debts or allow
pledging Moldelectrica's assets against debts, as this would only unnecessarily burden the
current operation of the sector and complicate its financial situation, without any
advantages. Rather, the Government will focus on restructuring MTE's debts through
negotiations with debtors and creditors. Any additional resources - on top of the
recoverable receivables - should come from additional sources.
63. The Government will complete a diagnostic audit of the historical debts on the books of
RED Nord, RED Nord-Vest and Moldtranselectro by May 17, 2002, and will produce an
energy debt restructuring plan on the basis of this audit by the first quarter of 2003. The
plan would include the complete list of debts and a plan how these debts will be dealt with
(written-off, restructured/repaid), specifying the sources and the timing. The Government
will also amend by the first quarter of 2003 the Charter of Moldtranselectro with the aim to
revise  its responsibilities  as  to  ensure  proper  handling  of  these  debts.



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 19 of 22
64. By the fourth quarter of 2002, the Government will seek enactment of amendments to
the Criminal and the Administrative Codes, and any other laws necessary, to facilitate
criminal prosecution for tleft of energy (electricity, gas, heat, etc.) in any shape or form
(including, inter alia, bypassing or tampering with meters) and energy materials and
equipment. Such legislation will strengthen sanctions against energy theft and the
enforcement of such sanctions. We are also committed to enforce all measures under our
control to ensure full cash and timely payments and collections in the energy sector, as well
as to reducing commercial losses. The Government will refrain from interference in
commercial operations of energy companies, including their rights to enforce payments
through disconnections of nion-paying customers.
65. The Government recogpizes the critical importance of maintaining a proper regulatory
environment for the sector. The Government is committed to maintaining ANRE's
professional competence, stability, and integrity, as well as ANRE's independence and
authority in setting energy tariffs that reflect the full costs of doing business efficiently, as
stipulated by current legislation. The Government will also enable ANRE to have adequate
premises and budget, sufficient to enable ANRE to carry out its tasks, including contracting
out specific tasks, professional development of ANRE's staff, and competitive salaries.
66. Moldova will maintain electricity trading rules which make distribution companies
fully responsible for buying sufficient amounts of electricity to meet demand of their
customers. ANRE will authorize opening up the electricity end-user market for
competition when econonmic and technical conditions will warrant such a move and in
accordance with privatization contracts with investors, and after the necessary metering and
dispatch infrastructure, which currently lacking, is in place.
67. The potentially adverse social effects of cost recovery tariffs and enforcement of
payments on the poorest segments of the population will be mitigated by better targeted
social benefits. The Government will ensure that the Law on Nominal Compensations is
being implemented well and its entitlements remain within available financing resources.
This social assistance program is designed to help the needy families pay their energy bills
and will further help mitigate social costs of increased financial discipline and cost
recovery in the energy sector.
B. 5. Privatization Program: Legal Framework, Telecom, and Wineries
B. 5.1. Legal Framework for Privatization
68. The Government understands that enterprise privatization is a key to improving
corporate governance and economic performance. Although changes of Government and
political uncertainties have slowed the progress of privatization in recent months, we are
now committed to revitalizing the process with a view to privatizing all assets engaged in
commercial productive atctivities within a relatively short time. In July 2001, the
Parliament extended the 1999/2000 Privatization Program and approved a list of 482
enterprises, including wine and tobacco industries, for privatization in 2001-2002. At
present, the Government is developing an Action Plan with dated targets and proposed
method of privatization for all the remaining enterprises of the program.
69. Following earlier privatization, the State holds small residual share-holdings in a large
number of enterprises. Enterprise managers often cite this as a problem as state officials,



May 10, 2002                                                        Annex 4
Page 20 of 22
leveraged by only small state residual ownership, sometimes interfere in the running of the
business. To address this issue, by May 17, 2002 we will issue a Decree which specifies
initiation, 21 days following assessment of the requisite share ownership data, of the write-
off, in accordance with Moldovan law and through a transparent process, of State
shareholdings in privatized joint stock companies where such shares represent 10% or less
of the total shares outstanding and the book value of state-held equity is USD50,000
equivalent or less. The shares should be distributed as treasury stock.
70. By the fourth quarter of 2002, we will complete an inventory of all remaining state
property, including Joint Stock Companies, State-owned enterprises and other assets, and
will prepare and approve a privatization program for 2003-2004 based on this inventory.
71. Given the lackluster performance and lack of strategic privatizations over the past two
years, we intend to streamline some of our processes in order to improve the quality and
speed of privatization. By the fourth quarter of 2002, we will amend the Law on
Privatization as to clarify the roles and responsibilities of governmental bodies to ensure
that the privatization process is not impeded by the reassignment of the management of
state assets from the Privatization Department to line ministries. We will also review our
procedures for privatization by auctions and tenders to improve practices. This will both
accelerate the process and encourage higher bidding overall for state assets. It will also
eliminate the need to repeatedly auction some properties for which there is little prospect of
sale, and which can more effectively be disposed of by other means. This will involve
simplification and streamlining auctions and tenders: (i) eliminate reserve prices for
properties to be auctioned at the third auction, (ii) eliminate barriers to sale at a single
English or Dutch auction to the highest bidder, (iii) in tenders, except in special cases as
determined by an independent financial advisor transparently selected through an
internationally competitive process for each tender, eliminate investment pledges and
requirements, and (iv) where the Govemment is shareholder/creditor, act to initiate
liquidation proceedings for properties that have not been sold after three auctions.
72. The Government will also undertake specific measures to eliminate barriers to sale plot
divisibility and price rigidity of land associated with enterprises by the first quarter of 2003.
We will amend the Law on Normative Prices and Land Tradability and other related laws
that are designed to allow divisibility of the land in a case where enterprises are associated
with large tracts of land that are not needed and are expensive to purchase. We will also
seek methods to reduce the prices of land in an environment where privatized enterprises
associated with the land are constrained by liquidity.
B. 5. 2. Telecommunications/ICT Sector Reform
73.  The   primary  objective  of  the  Government's reform   program   in  the
telecommunications/ICT (Information and Communication Technology) sector is to ensure
the competitive provision of the widest possible range of efficient, reliable and affordable
communications services to business and the population in a fairly regulated market. This
is to be achieved through continued private participation and investment in the sector,
encouraging the competitive provision of services and ensuring credible, fair and
transparent regulation in the sector, with appropriate social policies addressed at the most
vulnerable groups. The reforms are an integrated, comprehensive package. Successful



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 21 of 22
reforms in this sector, taken together, are pivotal to the overall economic reform process in
Moldova. The contribution that reforms in this sector will play is vital in the creation of a
modem business enabling environment (encouraging innovation and investment, creating
jobs, retaining skills and reducing transaction costs) making Moldovan enterprises more
efficient and making Moldova more competitive globally. In particular, we intend to
maximize our comparative advantage in human capacity, especially language skills and
technical training, and leverage our position in the region.
74. Moldova has undertaken a variety of key steps in reforming the legal and regulatory
aspects of the refonm process in the telecom/ICT sector, and we will continue to pursue
these reforms. We believe that all of these regulatory actions are both important in their
own right and will contribute to a successful privatization transaction. To assist in the
reform process, consultants have been engaged to assist with the development of the
legal/regulatory framework and provide resident advisory services to ANRTI (the body
responsible for regulation of the telecom/ICT sector). Completion of the various regulatory
reforms in a timely fashion is necessary as it relates to creating certainty in connection with
the privatization of Moldtelecom. A number of key actions are underway or planned in this
respect.
75. First, as part of Moldova's accession to the WTO, Moldova has committed to liberalize
the market by 2004 and we have submitted a schedule of commitments regarding
telecommunications servioes, including the "Reference Paper". We are in the process of
implementing those commitments in our national legal and regulatory framework. In
particular, by May 17, 2002, rules and procedures regarding interconnection will be
promulgated, and ANRTI's independence will be strengthened.
76. Second, Moldova has already established ANRTI and we are clarifying and
consolidating in ANRTI regulatory competencies applicable in the telecom ICT sector to
ensure legal/regulatory certainty and the credibility of the regulatory function in the sector.
77. Third, a new Tariff Regulation has been adopted. Also, the fist phase of a cost-based
tariff rebalancing plan (to be completed by 2004) for Moldtelecom will be effective in July
2002. This plan will make international calls competitive, and introduce cost-based local
and long distance tariffs for residential and business users. It is also expected that the tariff
rebalancing plan will increase the value of Moldtelecom and attract information-
telecommunications service providers to do business in Moldova.
78. Fourth, the Government is committed to seek enactment of the legal and regulatory
framework, including nornative acts, to ensure the de-monopolization and competitive
provision of VolP telephony. To this end, we will issue a Government Decree , (i)
specifying the necessary amnendments to the legal and regulatory framework, including
normative acts, required to de-monopolize VoIP and committing the Government to submit
by the earliest possible date, as prescribed by Parliamentary and administrative procedures,
these amendments to the Parliament; and (ii) specifying measures to be undertaken by the
Government and MoldTelecom, effective upon issuance of the decree, for the competitive
provision of VoLP (for example through concessions or otherwise) pending enactment of
the amending legislation.
79. We are well aware thal the "stop and go" efforts to reform and privatize Moldtelecom
in the past have damaged Moldova's reputation in the international investment community



May 10, 2002                                                      Annex 4
Page 22 of 22
generally and have decreased the attractiveness of an investment in Moldtelecom on the
international market. We also recognize the contribution of the Moldtelecom privatization
to the overall sector reform process, and not as an end it itself. Accordingly, we have hired
an investment bank to assist in the process of privatizing Moldtelecom through an open,
competitive and transparent international tender for the sale of a majority of shares in
Moldtelecom (together with the transfer of management control) on the basis of objective
selection and evaluation criteria. We expect to launch the tender for this transaction by
mid-2002.
B. 5. 3. Winery Privatization
80. Most of Moldova's wineries have already been privatized, but ten of the most important
properties, accounting for nearly one-half of all production by volume and an even higher
proportion by value, are still owned by the state. All these wineries have been included in
the current privatization program approved by Parliament. We are also considering the
privatization of the commercial parts of the National Institute for Vine and Oenology and
of the Fruit Institute. We recognize that these positions give us an opportunity to not only
more effectively market the winery properties themselves, but to also promote Moldova as
a much more significant player in international wine markets. We have thus decided on a
strategic approach to the further privatization of this sector.
81. By May 17, 2002 we will conclude an agreement with a qualified financial advisor,
under competitive and transparent procedures, for the marketing of the remaining important
winery properties to strategic investors. With the assistance of the financial advisor,
detailed bidding documents for the sale of winery properties will be prepared. The
Government will hold an investors' conference in Moldova for interested and potentially
interested strategic investors in the Moldovan wine sector and we will conduct international
tenders for the sale of all remaining state shares in the winery sector. By the first quarter of
2003, we will offer for sale through international tender at least 33% of the total book value
of the existing state wineries to achieve majority private ownership of a number of
wineries.
Vasile Tarlev
Prime Minister



Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
MOLDOVA: THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MATRIX OF CORE POLICY ACTIONS
NB: All of the measures covered by SACIII are specified in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP). This matrix contains only the "core " conditions. The
text herein describes the short-hand versions of these "core" conditions; please refer to the LDPfor thefill exposition of the "core" measure in question.
'A~~.                         .Ared                                                   - .              .,'L.......... 
. I f.-F',           Taken             Pr;-ioi e   -r to Board  *.     -   .--;               i   r- -   , - .Priorto  ;  Pr
A. POVERTVALLEN1ATl0N                                                                   S     dIf,a . .  .  nc-Pre tatioh S   ;anch'e  -T . r  _ne'
*Reduce pot'ert3ihr'ugh ',                                                                               '
growth fit e soct . r         '        "             .;,  ,  ;
service del.aer                    . E<
strengtheWedSOCiai l 'V  .  ,
protection. .. 1- _.l1-xt-:-)- ....
A. 1. POVERTY ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION
1. Improve poverty          Established a Coordination  Government approval of a 3  Implementation of poverty
monitoring and analytical   Council to develop a poverty  year plan to strengthen   monitoring and evaluation
capacity in evaluating      reduction strategy.         capacity in poverty         program including
poverty impacts of                                      monitoring and evaluation   improvements in
government policies         Updated Household Budget    which includes:             questionnaire and update of
Survey Questionnaire that                               sml o      oshl
improves collection of social  (i) assignment of        sample for Household
services information for   responsibility for collection  dissemination to public.
monitoring and evaluation.  of
-   Survey data to DOS
-   Program data, including
at local level, to
appropriate line
ministries
-   Budget data, including at
local level, to MOF



Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
(ii) improving the usefulness
of existing survey data
including the HBS through
-   improvements in the
questionnaire,
particularly in social
policy areas, in
consultation with key
line ministries
-   Revision and update of
the sampling frame of
the HBS
-   Making the survey data
available to the public
(iii) Creation of a users
group that would include line
ministries, DOS, MOF, as
well as non-governmental
organizations to design and
assess poverty relevant
sectoral policies
A. 2. IMPROVE SOCIAL SERVICE DELIVERY: EDUCATION
2. Continue reforms to     The Government has been                                                           Government to approve an
improve the quality of basic  implementing a reform program                                                  education reform policy
education and to improve   to improve the quality of                                                         strategy to address emerging
access at all levels in the  primary and lower secondary                                                     inequities in the system,
education system.          education. A new institutional                                                    including (a) drop out of
structure for curriculum revision                                                  poor children from basic
has been established and the                                                       education (b) higher
curriculum revised, learning                                                       education selection and
assessment has been improved                                                       financial support
and new national examinations                                                      mechanisms to ensure access
have been introduced at grades                                                     of poor students
4 and 9, textbooks for core



Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
subjects are being provided for
basic education grades and are
being financed through a
textbook rental scheme, and
teachers are receiving in-service
training in new curricula,
teaching methods, and
assessment.
A. 3. IMPROVE SOCIAL SERVICE DELIVERY: HEALTH CARE
3. Improve efsiciency of   The Government has                                      Government approval of a
the hospital-centric       established Health Investment                           time bound Hospital
infrastructure to deliver  Fund to increase investment in                          Restructuring Plan for
adequate health care and   primary health care.                                    further elimination of excess
provide continued support                                                          capacity in Chisinau
to the primary care        In response to costly                                   Municipality Hospital and
network.                   overcapacity, the Government                            Republican Hospitals.
has closed 98 percent of all
rural hospitals and over 50
percent of the beds and
infrastructure in the district
hospitals. The Republican
Health-Sports Dispensaiy has
been closed. The Chisinau has
closed the Municipal Hospital
No. 2. Chisinau has
consolidated the municipal
narcological institute with the
Republican narcological
institute.
A. 4. STRENGTHEN SOCIAL PROTECTION: PENSION REFORM
4. Advance implementation  Under the 1998 pension reform,                          Enactment of amendments
of the pension reform to   continued progress has been                             to the 1998 pension law "On
ensure sustainable and     made in toward rationalizing                            the State Social Security
adequate old-age           the pay-as-you-go system,                               Pension", which includes:
protection.                maintaining a strong linkage
between individual
contributions made and



Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
pensions received and by
gradually increasing the                                   privileges into the general
retirement age according to the                            pension law with gradual
agreed schedule.                                           withdrawal of elements
inconsistent with the
In 2001, pensions were made on                            general pension law
time and in cash; the National                           - Specification of a clear
Pension Fund recorded a small                             financially viable
surplus.                                                  indexation mechanism with
which to determine all
future pension increases
B. IMPROVEMENT OF                             .           - -          -           - -!-..
THE BUSINESS                     Alreadv Taken              . 'Prior- to. Bard     -         Prior to   !        -       Prior to
ENVIRONMENT          .                           .          -~ -Presentation          .. Second Tranche-.        .Third,Tranche-;
Lay theOfiundaiions for -.
investment, enterprise .'   :          -
dvelopment and                     - -
restructuring. '     f .,:,;'         .        |           -,,- " !' .1
B. 1. HARDEN BUDGET CONSTRAINTS AND IMPROVE FIDUCIARY MANAGEMENT
1. Strengthen mechanisms   The Ministry of Finance      Eliminate all public sector  Full implementation of      Government to implement
to enhance financial and   established a Cash Management  financial support for the  measures to eliminate all  the agreed stages of the
fiscal discipline and to   Unit in the Treasury to improve  wine and tobacco sectors by,  public sector financial  CFAA's action plan.
increase transparency and  cash forecasting and operational  (i) issuing a Government  support, including
accountability.            cash management according to  Decree which stipulates    investments, loans and
recommendations of the       measures for the elimination  credits, and subsidies,
Association.                 of all public sector financial  related to raw material
The Ministry of Finance      support, including          production, processing and
establishe the singletreas investments, loans and   trade in the tobacco and
established the sngle treasury  credits, and subsidies,  winery sectors, beginning
account for the State Budget.  related to raw material   with enactment of the 2003
The Ministry of Finance      production, processing and  Budget and thereafter,
consolidated foreign and     trade in the tobacco and    and/or modification or
domestic debt management into  winery sectors, beginning  elimination of any other
a     single department, and  with enactment of the 2003  related existing mechanisms.
improved front, middle, and  Budget and thereafter,
_____ ____ _____ ____ ____ back  office  functionalities__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
according to recommendations
of the Association.         and/or modification or
Eliminated netting operations  elimination of any other
and achieved 98% cash       related existing mechanisms;
collection of State venues and  and (ii) enacting legislative
91% cash collection of revenues  amendments to eliminate
of State and Local budgets.  earmarking of all tax
Social Insurance Budget was  revenues to the wine and
brought to 100% cash        tobacco sectors, including
collections.                those specified in Art. 18(2)
of the Law on Tobacco and
The National Pension House  Tobacco Products (No. 386-
fully eliminated Social Fund  XV) and Art. 22 of the Law
arrears in 2001.            on Vineyards and Wine (No.
1166-XIV).
Enactment of amendments    Reorganization of the
to the Law on the Court of  Ministry of Finance's
Accounts (CoA), which      internal audit system so as to
limits CoA audits to use of  ensure increased
public funds.              independence and capacity.
B. 2. REFORM BUSINESS ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
1.Improve the business    Moldova joined the WTO in    Eliminate double VAT on    Enactment of a new market  Government to complete a
environment and reduce     June 2001.                  fixed assets brought in as  oriented Civil Code (to take  second "Cost of Doing
corruption to generate                                 statutory capital of       effect January 1, 2003).   Business" survey, and
growth, especially of new  Parliamentary passage of the tax  enterprises,                                    development of a policy
entrants and small and     administration chapter of the tax                                                 program to implement
medium enterprises.       law.                                                                               findings; the findings of the
survey to be published.
Reform of the Customs
administration to reduce
corruption and smuggling,
including, (a) introduction of
new customs seals, and (b)
implementation of a program of
rotation of senior customs



Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
ofTicers.
Parliament adopted and
published the Law on Anti-                                                          Government to adopt reform
Money Laundering.                                                                   of the business inspection
system to reduce
Parliamentary passage and                                                          impediments to business
publication of Law on Pledges.                                                      activity through creation of
stronger checks and
Parliament adopted a new Law                                                        balances and increased
on Licenses which consolidated                                                     transparency, including
the licensing authority and                                                         modification of the
reduced the number of license                                                       enterprise inspection log
from about 106 to about 55,                                                         requirement and
while leaving authority of                                                          establishment of a publicly
licensing for strategic industries                                                  accessible centralized
- telecommunications, energy                                                       registry of enterprise
and banking - to independent,                                                      inspections.
qualified regulatory agencies.
Parliament passed and
published a streamlined Law on
Insolvency.
B. 3. AGRICULTURE SECTOR REFORM
1. Complete privatization of  560 additional State and  Government to adhere to the  Government to adhere to the  Government to adhere to
State and Collective Farms  Collective Farms have      Memorandum of               Memorandum of               the Memorandum of
and facilitate the         undergone debt restructuring  Understanding on          Understanding on            Understanding on
development of land and    procedures and privatizatibn  Agriculture.              Agriculture.                Agriculture.
credit markets.            (including issuance of land
titles), bringing the total
privatization effort to 1050 out
of 1100 farms.
Parliament passed a Law on
Business Cooperatives which
establishes a market-oriented
legal framework for
cooperatives in agriculture.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
2. Improve the legislative  The Law on Peasant farms was
basis for private           amended to stop large
agricultural enterprises.  individual farmers from
seeking tax avoidance by
registering as peasant farms.
3. Continue liberalization of  Signing by the Prime Minister
ngicu!tura! pojici     .    .......navid Minister ef A- --..c
Memorandum of
Understanding which calls for
consolidation of a fully liberal
agricultural policy framework,
including (among other
measures):
- elimination of all remaining
export bans, licenses and
controls;
- no subsidies outside of the
Agricultural Support Fund;
- elimination of the practice of
setting of reference prices for
agricultural commodities;
- rationalization of
Government procurement
procedures of agricultural
goods.
No agricultural subsidies,
directed credits or off-budget
programs were extended to the
agricultural sector in 2001.
All remaining export bans,
licenses and controls were
eliminated (including timber,
walnuts and tobacco).
The Government cancelled the



Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
practice of issuing reference
prices for agricultural products
in parallel with the opening up
of a Moldovan Commodities
Exchange.
B. 4. ENERGY SECTOR REFORMS
t. Impose domestic          In response to a severe ice  Enactment of amendments,
financial discipline, hard  storm in the North of Moldova,  as stipulated in the agreed
budget constraints, and     the State made only necessary  privatization plan, to the
improve the quality of     repairs to the system to bring  Individual Power
energy services for         consumers back on line, under  Privatization Law, the
consumers by continuing to  the recognition that long-term  Energy Sector Debt
liberalize, restructure and  investments should best be  Restructuring Law, and
privatize the energy sector.  made by a private         other laws as necessary to
investor/operator.          enable successful
implementation of the
An investment bank was hired  Privatization Plan of the
with the Government's own   energy sector.
funds to assist with the
privatization of the remaining
two electricity distribution
companies RED Nord and
RED Nord-Vest.
2. Maintain appropriate     In response to increased input
regulatory framework in the  costs, ANRE increased energy
energy sector.             tariffs to full cost recovery
levels.
3. Restore the energy       An internationally recognized
sector's financial          audit firm was hired to audit
equilibrium and reduce     the debts of the energy sector.
energy-related budgetary
arrears.



Annex 5
Page 9 of 10
B. 5. PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM: LEGAL FRAMEWORK, TELECOM, AND WINERIES
1. Streamline and          Parliament extended the    Write-off of State share-  Simplify and streamline    Amendments to the Law on
implement a high quality   1999/2000 Privatization    holdings in privatized     auctions and tenders: (i)  Normative Prices and Land
privatization process.     Program through 2003 and   enterprises where such     eliminate reserve prices for  Tradability designed to
included all state-owned   shares represent 10% or less  properties to be auctioned at  eliminate barriers, including
winpries annt tnebo         f t h.e t*.ta o -          he third a ^to.v  *...A o  "... . ..I ,  .:  . o.di.
nd-. .-b-----'..-....S*SSS* fl)                                          p.us Uflv:5-usinj aIJu pi ES.,
enterprises in the program.  outstanding and the book  eliminate barriers to sale at  rigidity, to sale of land
The Government published a  value of state-held equity is  a single English or Dutch  associated with enterprises.
list of 482 JSCs and SOEs as  USD50,000 equivalent or  auction to the highest
Privatization Program for  less.                      bidder, (iii) in tenders,
2001 -2002.                                           except in special cases, as
determined by an
independent financial
advisor transparently
selected through an
internationally competitive
process for each tender,
eliminate investment pledges
and requirements, and (iv)
where the Government is
shareholder/creditor, it will
act to initiate liquidation
proceedings for properties
that have not been sold after
three auctions.
2. Improve the regulatory  The telecom regulatory agency  In order to de-monopolize  Full implementation of the
environment for            (ANRTI) is improving its   VolP telephony, issuance of  agreed phases of the tariff
development of the web     capacity and is developing an  a Government Decree (i)  re-balancing plan for
economy in Moldova in      EU oriented regulatory     specifying the necessary   Moldtelecom.
parallel with implementation  framework for information and  amendments to the legal and
of a high quality          communications technology  regulatory framework,
privatization process for  (ICT) in Moldova, including  including normative acts,
Moldtelecom.               toward establishing clear rules  required to de-monopolize
of the game for Moldtelecom  VoIP and committing the
(MTC) privatization.       Government to submit by the



Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
The Ministry of
Communications and          earliest possible date, as
Transport (MoCT) developed  prescribed by Parliamentary
and published a             and administrative
telecommunications policy   procedures, these
paper.                      amendments to the
A contract has been signed  Parliament; and (ii)
with a financial advisor for  specifying measures to be
privatization of MTC and the  undertaken by the
advisory services are under  Government and
implementation. The         Moldtelecom, effective upon
Government paid retainer for  issuance of the decree, for
financial services out of its  the competitive provision of
own resources, including for  VoIP (for example through
an internationally qualified  concessions or otherwise)
audit of MTC.               pending enactment of the
amending legislation.
3. Complete privatization in  All remaining state-owned                                                        Government will offer for
the wine sector to promote  wineries have been included in                                                     salernment     ernfor
foreign market access for   the 2001/2002 Privatization                            Satisfactory progress in the  sale through international
Moldova wine and brandy.    Program approved by                                    privatization of all       tender at least 33% of the
Parliament, giving the                                 remaining state-owned      total book value of the
Government the authority to                            wineries listed in the      existing state wineries to
launch a tender process.                               Privatization Program with  achieve majority private
Diagnostics as inputs to tender                        the exception of the Onoteca  ownership of a number of
"information to investors"                             of Cricova:                 wineries.
documents have been                                    -With assistance of the
completed for the majority of                           financial advisor, hold an
state owned wineries.                                  investors' conference in
Moldova for interested and
potentially interested
strategic investors.
-Prepare detailed bidding
documents for the sale of
winery properties.



IBRD 24285R3
28'
, <  w   2  ro^enems                Z   ~M  O  L D O V A
, ljiliv.U K R A I N E
A\ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Pd.31'skiy
Briceni              To Vj t-        70           SELECTED CITIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
- <\  X  /   \   9 RIVERS
48'                                             48' R i s  < \ *   f I   ,  ,RAILROADS
Floresti                ~~~~~~~~ROADS
a tinit- IN                         TERNATIONAL
sW/(  /              ~~~~~~~~     ~      ~~~~~~Rez na t  BOUNDARIES
V  <   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  \ (   _  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~Th,s nh-tp wos produe
'b                            BLA1 CK   U"'t
o  I(ILC)..te T~ Ro          d,  Je sOhi.b
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h itW-t Wr                 h.- Sth<
:.  r . 5   /Cead. |                        r i~~~~~~~~~~~~d   -
46-  l  ?  *  > >  Lungcl -                 - U   - thE
t Icunest  4 + ncest   Bend  spo /
j                      0  iL,  (J-w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI BL A1C97
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        a
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 1997 IA






I



IMAGING
Report No.: P        7540    MD
Type:      PR



