Report No. PID11062
Project Name                     Moldova-Structural Adjustment (@)
Credit III
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multi-Sector Structural Adjustment
Project ID                       MDPE65163
Borrower                         Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
2005 Cosmonautilor 7, Chisinau,
Moldova
Telephone: 3732 226629
Fax:        3732 240055
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           March 6, 2002
Date Initial PID Prepared        February 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         March 12-19, 2002
Projected Board Date             June 18, 2002
Background
1.      Since independence, Moldova has made significant progress in
maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies and implementing structural
reforms. Relatively good progress has been made in fiscal consolidation,
pension reform, agricultural policy, land privatization and energy sector
reform. In 1997, Moldova experienced its first year of economic growth (1.7
percent). However, the prospects for continued growth evaporated as the
country was hit by the Russian financial crisis in 1998 that contributed to
increased social hardship and poverty. To its credit, after the crisis, the
government continued implementing structural reforms and prudent management
of fiscal and monetary policies. These reforms have begun to render positive
results as Moldova experienced two years of consecutive economic growth (2.1
and 6.1 percent, respectively, in 2000 and 2001). However, many structural
reforms in the areas of agriculture, energy, enterprise privatization,
business environment, corporate governance, and social service delivery have
to be deepened to generate sufficient supply responses that would enable
growth to continue and be sustained over the medium and long-term.
Objectives
2.      The proposed credit aims to support the implementation of the first
phase of the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper which aims
to alleviate poverty by generating growth, improving social service delivery
and providing better targeted direct social assistance to the poor.
Description
3.      To encourage continued economic growth, SAC III will improve the
business climate and sustain further development of the macro-economy by
consolidating the macro-fiscal adjustment and extending progress on real
sector reforms. SAC III will support strategic budget formulation and



improved fiduciary management of public resources. SAC III will support
further liberalization of agricultural policies and development of land and
credit markets. In energy, the primary focus will be to secure financial
viability of the power sector through privatization of the power companies
and strengthening independence of the energy regulator. In the area of
enterprise privatization, SAC III will focus on improving the privatization
process and completing privatization of strategic assets, including
Moldtelecom and the remaining state-owned wineries. Finally, it will
invigorate the process of restructuring and/or liquidation of large loss-
making enterprises though an improved bankruptcy process.
4.      SAC III will focus on measures to address poverty in Moldova.    In order
to better inform the Government's poverty reduction strategy, attention will
be given to improving and publicizing monitoring and analysis of poverty.
This will form the foundation for better-focused social policies and improved
targeting of social transfer programs. SAC III will also support efficiency
improvements in the health sector and continued reform of the pension system
to improve its operation and make it financially sound.
Environmental Aspects
5.      In accordance with the Association's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits
6.      The benefits of the proposed SAC III include: (a) to provide balance of
payments and budget financing needed to sustain macroeconomic stability, thus
providing the financial underpinning for the Government's reform program; and
(b) to address poverty in Moldova synchronous with the objectives of the I-
PRSP. It will encourage inclusive growth, improve social service delivery
and contribute to better targeting of direct social assistance and a
sustainable pension system.
Potential Risks
7.      The operation has three potential risks: (a) political risk associated
with delays in policy implementation due to internal debate within the ruling
party and insufficient ownership of the program, and with political
instability and social unrest due to continued economic hardship for the
population and dissatisfaction with the direction and pace of policy
changes; (b) implementation risk due to weak capacity of government agencies;
and (c) macroeconomic risk associated with external shocks to production or
income, lack of sufficient foreign and domestic investment, and severe
liquidity problems associated with repayment of the Eurobond in June 2002 and
large external debt service.
Contact Point:
Lawrence Bouton
Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone.: (202) 473-9158
Fax No.: (202) 522-2753
-2-



For information on other project related documents, contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
June 7, 2002.
-3-



