Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3667 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3667 MD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2002 between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 10, 
Page  2
2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches 
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CFAA” means the Country Financial Accountability Assessment;
(b)
“Cost of Doing Business Survey” means the survey to identify the cost of doing 
business in the Borrower’s territory. 
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
“Memorandum of Understanding on Agriculture” means the memorandum dated 
December 10, 2001, and agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; 
(e)
“Moldtelecom” means the joint-stock company S.A. Moldtelecom; and
(f)
“Privatization Program” means the Borrower’s enterprise privatization plan for 
2003-2004.  
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
24,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the  
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Page  4
Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account: 
(A)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account, shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 8,100,000, 
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken and are deemed satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(B) 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account, shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 16,100,000, 
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken and are deemed satisfactory to the 
Association.
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the 
Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after 
such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of 
(i), (ii)  and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Page  5
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and 
November 15, commencing November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 2042. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on May 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal.
Page  6
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Page  7
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has in place a macroeconomic framework 
consistent with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of indicators agreed 
with the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7
277005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
Facsimile:
(3732) 22810
(3732) 24-0055
Telex:
Facsimile:
243331 LADA SU
(3741) 151-069
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Mihail Manoli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Authorized Representative
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
Page  11
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party); 
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Section I.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(A) of this Agreement
1.
Implementation of a poverty monitoring and evaluation program, including 
improvements in the questionnaire and update of samples for the household budget survey and its 
dissemination to the public.
2.
Government approval of a time-bound Hospital Restructuring Plan for further 
elimination of excess capacity in Republican Hospitals and Chisinau Municipal Hospitals.
Page  12
3.
Enactment of amendments to the 1998 Law “On the State Social Security Pension”  
satisfactory to the Association, including: (a) integration of pension privileges into the general 
pension law with gradual withdrawal of elements inconsistent with the general pension law; and 
(b) specification of a clear financially viable indexation mechanism with which to determine all 
future pension increases.
4.
Implementation of measures eliminating all public sector financial support, including 
investments, loans and credits, and subsidies, related to raw material production and processing 
and trade in the tobacco and winery sectors, beginning with enactment of the fiscal year 2003 
budget and thereafter, and/or modification or elimination of any other related existing 
mechanisms.
5.
Reorganization of the Ministry of Finance’s internal audit system so as to ensure 
increased independence and capacity. 
6.
Enactment of a Civil Code.
7.
Adherence to the Memorandum of Understanding on Agriculture.
8.
Simplification and streamlining of auction procedures and tenders, including:      (a) 
elimination of reserve prices for properties to be auctioned at the third auction; (b) elimination of 
barriers to sale at a single English or Dutch auction to the highest bidder; (c) regarding tenders, 
elimination of investment pledges and requirements except as otherwise determined by an 
independent financial advisor selected through an internationally competitive process for each 
tender; and (d) initiation of liquidation proceedings for state-owned properties that have not been 
sold after three auctions.  
9.
Implementation of the agreed tariff re-balancing plan for Moldtelecom.
10.
Progress in the privatization of all remaining state-owned wineries listed in the 
Privatization Program with the exception of the Onoteca of Cricova, including the organization 
of a conference for potential investors and the preparation of bidding documents for the sale of 
winery properties.
Section II.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(B) of this Agreement
1.
Approval by the Government of an education reform policy strategy addressing emerging 
inequities in the system, including: (a) drop out of poor children from basic education; and (b) 
higher education selection and financial support mechanisms to ensure access of poor students.
2.
Development and implementation of the agreed stages of the CFAA’s action plan.
3.
Completion of a second “Cost of Doing Business Survey” and development of a  policy 
program to implement findings and publication of the findings of the survey.
4.
Adoption by the Government of reforms of the business inspection system, reducing 
impediments to business activity through creation of stronger checks and balances and increased 
transparency, including modification of the enterprise inspection log requirement and 
establishment of a publicly accessible centralized registry of enterprise inspections.
Page  13
5.
Adherence to the Memorandum of Understanding on Agriculture.
6.
Amendments to the Law on Normative Prices and Land Tradability designed to eliminate 
barriers, including plot divisibility and price rigidity, to sale of land associated with enterprises.
7.
Offer for sale through international tender of at least 33% of the total book value of the 
existing state wineries to achieve majority private ownership of a number of wineries. 
