Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7268-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.52525 BILLION
AND ON A
PROPOSED SPECIAL REPURCHASE FACILITY SUPPORT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.05 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
November 3, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 3. 1998)
Currency Unit = Argentina Peso (ArgOS
Arg$1  US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGN         - General Auditor's Office
ASOMA       - Solidarity Assistance to the Elderly
ATN         - National Treasury Grants
BCRA        - Central Bank of Argentina
BANADE    - National Development Bank
CAMEL       - Capital Assets Management Earnings and Liquidity
CAS         - Country Assistance Strategy
CNV         - National Securities Commission
EFF         - Extended Fund Facility
FEDEI       - Federal Rural Electrification Fund
FONAVI    - National Housing Fund
FOPAR       - Participatory Social Investment Fund
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB         - Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         - International Monetary Fund
INDEC       - National Institute of Statistics and Census
INDER       - National Reinsurance Agency
LIBOR       - London Interbank Offer Rate
LIL         - Learning and Innovation Loan
LSMS        - Living Standards Measurement Study
MEyOSP    - Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Seri'ices
NBI         - Unsatisfied Basic Needs Index
OECD        - Organization for Economic Cooperation Development
PAMI        - Integrated Program of Medical Care
PRANI       - Youths Nutritional Program
PROMIN    - Program for Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition
SAFJP       - Superintendent of Administrators of Pensions and Retirement
Funds
SAL         - Structural Adjustment Loan
SART        - Superintendent of Workers' Compensation
SCL         - Single Currency Loan
SECAL       - Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SEDESA      - Deposit Insurance Corporation
SIEMPRO    - System of Information, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social
Programs
SISFAM      - Social Program Targeting System
SME         - Small and Medium Enterprise
SSAL        - Special Structural Adjustment Loan
SSN         - National Superintendent of Insurance
TRABAJAR  - Employment Support Program
VAT         - Value Added Tax
Vice President:          Mr. Shahid Javed Burki, LCRVP
Country Director:       Ms. Myrna Alexander, LCC7C
Sector Manager:         Mr. Guillermo Perry, LCSPR
Lead Economist:          Mr. Paul Levy, LCC7A



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
AND REPURCHASE FACILITY SUPPORT LOAN
Loans and Program Summary
Borrower:                  Argentine Republic
Amount and Terms:          SSAL:
$2.52525 billion-LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan
(SCL) in US Dollars. with special terms: 5-vear maturity.
including 3 years of grace. at 400 basis points over
LIBOR. A I percent front end fee. and a 75 basis point
commitment charge will apply, without waivers.
Special Repurchase (Repo) Facility Support Loan:
$505.05 million -Contingent Loan with the same special
terms as above.
Description:               The proposed loans will support the continued efforts of
the Government of Argentina to transform its economy
and to protect the gains achieved thus far. As one of Latin
America's most successful reformers. Argentina has
achieved price stability, opened its borders to trade,
privatized   public  enterprises,  restructured   public
administration, reformed the pension system and has
started the process of restoring social services. Argentina
is now focusing on reforms on investment in human
capital, improved regulation, modem financial market
supervision, and quality public administration and
govemnance.
The government showed its resolve during the 1995
Tequila crisis, not only to continue with but to accelerate
reforms particularly in terms of the financial sector. The
result has been a much stronger banking system which has
held firm despite recent problems encountered by
Argentina and all emerging markets in accessing
international capital.
The operations are preventive, aimed at mitigating the
deleterious effect of the current international financial
instability on the economy and protecting vulnerable
groups.   Preventive  actions are  advisable  due  to
iii
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Argentina's currency board arrangement, and the fact that
foreign reserve losses translate into a liquidity crunch in
the banking system. The authorities have taken additional
precautionary actions, including an innovative contingent
repurchase facility with private banks, measures to restrain
fiscal expenditures, and a precautionary Extended Fund
Facility with the IMF. The Bank's support would be co-
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (US$2
billion for the SSAL, and US$0.2 billion for the repo
facility).
Benefits and Risks:       The SSAL loan will help meet critical foreign exchange
needs of the Government and allow it to remain focussed
on longer term reform issues. This would prevent the
drastic negative impacts. especially on vulnerable groups,
that the abrupt absence of external financing would have
on the economy and the social gains achieved thus far. In
conjunction with the SSAL, the contingent loan in support
of the "repo" facility will strengthen the financial system's
safety net and similarly safeguard economic and social
achievements.
A risk is that reforms could be delayed due to the
upcoming elections. However. this is offset by the sense
of urgency and consensus that measures must be taken to
avoid a repeat of the Tequila crisis. In addition, if access
to international capital markets is not restored by mid-
1999, the financial package currently assembled might not
be sufficient to meet external needs resulting in a severe
economic  adjustment.   The  Bank  and  the  other
international financial institutions will continue to work
with Argentina, as well as globally, to react to any
deepening of the global financial crisis.
Poverty Category:         Program of Targeted Intervention
Estimated Disbursements:  SSAL:
FY99-US$ 2.02525 billion (including capitalized front-
end fee)
FY00 - US$ 0.5 billion
Repurchase Facility Support Loan:
FYOO-US$ 505.05 million
Project ID Number:        SSAL -- AR-PE-62991
Repurchase Facility Support Loan - AR-PE-62992
iv



ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
AND SPECIAL REPURCHASE FACILITY SUPPORT LOAN
CONTENTS
1.    INTRODUCTION .............                           ,       . ..............................    1
2.        THE  ECONOMY ............. . .                          .       ...............................         2
A. The Convertibility Plan .....................................................
B. The 1994-1995 Regional Crisis ..................................................2
C. Recent Economic Performance ....................................................4
D. The Current International Crisis and  Its Impact on Argentina ....................5
E. Medium-term  Prospects and Financing Plan ................................................6
3. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ...................                                                            9
A. Advancing The Reform  Agenda ....................................................9
B. Quality Investment in Human Capital ...................................................              10
C. Efficient Financial Markets ...................................................                     17
D. Enhanced Regulatory Environment                           ...................................... 25
E. Quality Public Administration and Fiscal Strengthening ........................... 27
4. THE PROPOSED LOANSS ....................................................                                      31
A. Rationale and Objectives ...................................................                        31
B. Terms and Conditions ...................................................                            33
C. Benefits and Risks ...................................................                             35
5. BANK GROUP STRATEGY                                     .................................. 37
6. RECOMMENDATION                                    ...................................... 38
TABLES
Table 1: Argentina - Key Macroeconomic Indicators .............                            ................. 8
ANNEXES
Annex A: Social Indicators of Development
Annex B: Key Economic Indicators
Annex C: External Financing Requirements and Sources of Financing
Annex D: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex E: Matrix of Policy Actions
Annex F: Letter of Development Policy
Annex G: Argentina at a Glance
v



ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
AND SPECIAL REPURCHASE FACILITY SUPPORT LOAN
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on two
proposed loans: (1) a Special Structural Adjustment Loan (SSAL) to Argentina of
US$ 2.52525 billion (single currency) in support of continued economic reforms; and (2)
a contingent loan of US$ 505.05 million (single currency) to strengthen the repurchase
(repo) facility that the Central Bank has with commercial banks. Both loans would be at
the special rate (LIBOR + 400 basis points), with a maturity of five years, including three
years of grace, a one percent up-front fee and a commitment charge of 75 basis points
without waivers. The SSAL would be disbursed in three tranches: a first and second
tranche of US$1.0 billion each; and the third tranche of $500 million. Effectiveness of
the repo facility loan would be based on the effectiveness of the SSAL, satisfactory
progress in carrying out the adjustment operation, and a macroeconomic policy
framework that is consistent with the objectives of that operation. The contingent loan
would disburse on activation of the repo facility, but not before July 1, 1999.
2.    Argentina is in the latter stages of a successful economic transformation. Since
1989, the government has shed public enterprises and removed barriers to domestic and
international trade and capital. It instituted monetary and fiscal discipline, transforming
the hyperinflation of the 1980s into one of the lowest inflation rates in the world.
Productivity gains and rapid economic growth have followed. The government took
advantage of the Tequila crisis in 1995 to take stringent measures to strengthen the
banking system. At the same time, the government began the process of restoring social
services, especially social safety nets, education and health, with attendant impacts on the
poor, especially women and children. Public spending on social programs has increased
considerably, up 20 percent per capita in real terms since the mid-1980s.
3.    Despite these achievements, the country's history of high external indebtedness
relative to its export base leaves it exposed to the effects of the present turbulence in
international financial markets. Special support serves the purpose of mitigating an
unnecessary setback to the country's economic progress. Concomitantly, it supports the
government's efforts to move ahead with the structural reforms.
4.    The Inter-American Developmeat Bank (IDB) is cofinancing the Bank's loans. In
addition, the Bank proposes to support complementary reforms at the provincial level via
a proposed Third Provincial Reform Loan, scheduled for FY 00. Argentina is currently
in the first year of a three-year Extended Fund Facility with the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), and Argentina is in compliance with IMF conditions to date.
1



2. THE ECONOMY
A. THE CONVERTIBILITY PLAN
5.    Argentina's reform agenda builds upon a successful program of "first-generation"
reforms accomplished under the government's convertibility plan. The plan'. launched
in March of 1991, consisted of the following five main pillars:
(a)    monetary reform, through the Convertibility Law, subsequently
supplemented by the new charter of the Central Bank;
(b)   fiscal reform, initially through a sharp improvement in the administration
of the tax system and later through a redefinition of tax instruments and rates;
(c)    public sector reform, through debt restructuring, civil service reform,
fiscal restructuring and an ambitious and successful plan of divestiture and
deregulation of factor and product markets;
(d)   social security reform, allowing for a new capitalization mechanism
operated by the private sector; and
(e)   trade reform, through the elimination of export taxes and most quantitative
restrictions on imports, and the reduction of the level and range of import tariffs.
Entry into MERCOSUR followed.
6.    The monetary reform established a currency board-type arrangement and full
convertibility of the peso. The monetary base must be backed by foreign exchange
reserves by at least a two-thirds ratio (up to one-third may be dollar-denominated
government bonds), thus strongly restricting financing of fiscal deficits.
7.    Long-sought stabilization of prices followed the implementation of the reform.
The fiscal, public sector, and social security reforms led to a re-definition of the role of
the state, dramatically improving economic efficiency and allowing the government to
focus on the core social safety net and regulatory functions. Trade reform allowed local
companies improved access to state-of-art foreign technology, and it unleashed a renewed
dynamism in exports, with exports doubling from 1992 to 1997. The immediate impact
on economic performance was to achieve average annual GDP growth of 8.5 percent over
the 1991-1994 period. Consumer price inflation fell to less than 4 percent by mid-1994.
B. THE 1994-1995 REGIONAL CRISIS
8.    Argentina's macroeconomic stability depends on both foreign and domestic
confidence in the currency board arrangement instituted under the convertibility plan.
Under this system, a decline in international reserves translates into a monetary
Two prior (1989) pieces of legislation had opened the road to deregulation and privatization: "Ley de Emergencia
Economica."'and "Ley de Reforma del Estado."
2



contraction, as occurred in 1995, during the aftermath of the Tequila crisis.2 As a
consequence, there is a symbiotic relationship between the convertibility plan and the
financial system, requiring strength to the financial system. Weaknesses in the banking
system were quickly revealed in 1995, and emergency actions were required to stabilize
the situation - with support from the IMF, IDB and the Bank. The economy contracted
by 4.0 percent in 1995, and the unemployment rate soared to 18.4 percent. Nevertheless,
the government's commitment to the currency board arrangement was reaffirmed and the
Convertibility plan emerged stronger from that crisis.
9.     The Tequila crisis, as the first true test of the convertibility plan, brought to light
important lessons for Argentina:
(a) as for any emerging country, it highlighted the importance of a sound banking
system supported by strong, prudential regulation and banking supervision. The
crisis revealed weaknesses related to the limited nature of a dollar lender-of-last-
resort in an increasingly dollarized system, particularly when the government's
access to international credit is interrupted (although the absence of a full safety
net was a strong incentive for responsible belhavior by the banks). Increased
capital mobility, while welcome in re-monetizing the Argentine economy, has
also made the economy more vulnerable to external shocks and the banking
system, the agent of transmission of financial crises;
(b) it reemphasized the need to sustain sound macroeconomic policies. Just
before the 1994-1995 crisis, there was a slippage in the fiscal accounts and a
growing current account deficit, both impacting the credibility of the
convertibility plan;
(c) it highlighted the extent of the real economy's vulnerability to volatile capital
flows under a currency board, particularly in view of remaining rigidities in factor
markets (labor markets in particular);
(d)    the Mexican experience highlighted the difficulties in changing the
exchange rate regime during periods of crisis, particularly in a highly dollarized
economy where the majority of private sector liabilities, government debt, and
banking credit is in US dollars. It was a widely held belief in Argentina during
the crisis, and rightly so, that a devaluation of the currency would have had much
worse consequences than the ensuing recession. As a consequence, during the
crisis, no serious proposal was raised to abandon the currency board; and
(e)    lessons for the banking system underline the need for substantial liquid
assets to withstand liquidity shocks and the lack of access to international credit.
Some contagion effects were observed and a limited privately funded deposit
insurance scheme was introduced to limit that problem among depositors. Other
relevant experiences include: (i) time deposits proved more fickle than sight
2 The Central Bank has some flexibilitv. in that its charter allows it to substitute up to one-third of foreign reserves with
dollar-denominated govemment bonds.
3



deposits, and banks with no sight deposits suffered acute liquidity problems; (ii)
banks with standardized loans and good documentation marketed loan portfolios
easier; and (iii) market risk capital requirements were seen as an important
complement to the high counter party risk capital requirements that had already
been implemented.
10.   Argentina's reaction to the 1995 crisis sent strong signals to the markets about its
long-run credibility. This was specially true with respect to its decisions to: (a) remain
with the currency board despite a rapid decline in the money supply and high
unemployment; (b) allow some banks to fail and some bank depositors to lose money;
and (c) react to the crisis by tightening market discipline over banks and moving to
strengthen the credibility of the currency board (for example, by moving bank and
Central Bank effective 'reserves' offshore). Even at the worst moments of the 1995
crisis, the Convertibility Law (in particular its mandated coverage of high powered
money by international reserves) was never breached. While at the heiglht of the crisis
usage of dollar denominated bonds reached its legal limitations as a share of total
reserves, the usage of bonds was quickly reduced following the crisis.
11.   Aftermath to the 1995 Crisis. Despite serious prior efforts to strengthen the
financial system, the 1995 crisis increased the urgency for reform since the financial
system came close to the point of collapse. As a result, following the crisis, Central Bank
authorities took a number of measures to build on the growing strength of the banking
system both from the regulatory and supervisory perspectives (which also mitigate the
need for lender-of-last-resort functions). and increasing the liquidity in the system, actual
and contingent.
C. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
12.   Investment-led growth returned quickly following the 1995 crisis. The Argentine
economy expanded by 4.3 percent in 1996 and by an impressive 8.6 percent in 1997. By
May 1998, the unemployment rate had improved to a still-high 13.2 percent. Preliminary
estimates for the first half of 1998 indicate GDP growth of 7 percent.
13.   External Balance. After running small trade surpluses in 1995 and 1996, a trade
deficit of under 1.5 percent of GDP appeared in 1997, partially driven by booming
imports of capital goods. A terms-of-trade shock related to primary commodity price
declines has played a role: the IMF estimates a decline of 1.5 percent and 4.1 percent in
the terms of trade in 1997 and 1998 respectively. So far in 1998, there has been a further
deterioration in the trade balance, as well as some deterioration on services accounts.
The government estimates that the fall in the value of exports due to lower export prices
will total about $2.5 billion, or about 0.7 percent of GDP. The current account deficit
reached 3.5 percent of GDP in 1997, and it could reach about 4.3 percent of GDP this
year. About one-third of the current account deficit was financed by foreign direct
investment in 1997, and this share may be maintained this year.
14.   Improved Fiscal Balance. The government has attempted to relieve demand
pressures on the current account through an improved fiscal balance. The overall public
4



sector deficit (federal plus provincial) has declined from just over 3 percent of GDP in
1996, to about 2 percent in 1997. The federal deficit, driven largely by the transition
costs of the newly "privatized" pension system, constituted about three-fourths of that
deficit, while the provinces' deficit constituted one-fourth. For 1998. the consolidated
fiscal deficit is projected to fall to about 1.5 percent.
D. THE CURRENT INTERNATIONAL CRISIS AND
ITS IMPACT ON ARGENTINA
15.   The recent turmoil in international financial markets is having an impact on the
Argentine economy in various ways: the temporary closing of access to foreign
borrowing; a fall in the prices of major exports; and a sharp decline in the local stock
market. Confidence in the currency board and in the banking system, however, remains
strong. International reserves have held fairly steady, at about $24 billion. Although this
level is slightly lower than the $25 billion reached in early August, it is still about 7
percent higher than the level of reserves held at the end of 1997. Deposits in the banking
system have also held steady, but the rapid expansion of credit in the first half of 1998
has now slowed to near zero.
16.   Argentina is highly dependent upon access to international capital markets due to
its large foreign debt relative to its export base. Foreign debt service-to-export ratios for
upcoming years are projected to be over 60 percent, despite the lengthening of maturities
of public external debt. Prior to the current crisis, Argentina had been able to lengthen
the average maturity of its stock of public debt to over eight years. In recent weeks,
however, foreign private lenders have expressed no interest in extending new credits to
emerging markets, including Argentina. Although the export base doubled from 1992 to
1997, exports of goods and non-factor services represent only about 9 percent of GDP, up
from 6.3 percent in 1993, and it will take sustained fiscal discipline and continued
productivity improvements to lower Argentina's high debt-service-to-export ratio.
17.   The domestic stock market has fallen dramatically. The Merval stock index has
fallen by about one-third over the last six months (as of mid-October). The uncertain
business environment and restricted access to foreign capital have driven up domestic
interest rates sharply. Spreads on Argentine Brady bonds soared to well over 10 percent
- compared to the 3-4 percent spreads during much of 1997. The prime rate for 30 day
loans in pesos reached 17.5 percent (mid-September). This figure compares to 9.1
percent on average during 1997. Deposit rates have increased to a much lesser degree
than lending rates.
18.   The adoption of important reforms in the financial system, further fiscal
strengthening, and the deepening of structural reforms, have been instrumental in
deflecting the critical early stages of the recent Asian crisis. Despite the decline in equity
and bond values, and the initial brief dip in reserves, the financial markets have remained
relatively stable. The government has taken additional fiscal measures, reducing in
August planned expenditures in 1998 by one billion pesos from what was approved in the
1998 budget. These same levels - or less if need be-were presented to Congress in the
5



draft 1999 budget. This has sent a clear signal to the markets that the government is
prepared to maintain fiscal discipline.
19.   With markets closed and capital flows disrupted, Argentina will not be able to
finance its deficit nor refinance its external debt as maturities come due. In order to make
these payments, there would have to be a significant contraction in international reserves,
starting in the fourth quarter of 1998. Such contraction would produce a severe
recession, increases in unemployment, and would result in fiscal cuts that would go
beyond what is feasible or advisable given the timeframe available for making the
adjustment. Such drastic action would result in a collapse of government services and
critical social programs. The significant loss of reserves would threaten monetary and
fiscal stability. The financial system would come under stress. It is not unlikely for the
economy to experience a repeat of the Tequila crisis, when the economy contracted by 4
percent, and unemployment rose to over 18 percent. Under extreme circumstances, such
a scenario could undermine the viability of the convertibility plan.
20.   To avoid this severe scenario, the government has requested extraordinary
assistance from the Bank and IDB to complement the precautionary Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) put in place with the IMF. The request is based on the country's strong
track record in undertaking reforms and the quality of its macro-economic policies. It is
also prepared to undertake additional measures to advance to the next stage of structural
reforms. With the requested assistance, the government would be able to transcend the
immediate disruption of the international capital markets, facilitate reentry, and mitigate
the effects of the financial crisis on the economy, especially the poor and vulnerable
groups.
E. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING PLAN
21.   Although GDP growth for the first half of 1998 was about 7 percent (preliminary
estimates), there are clear signs the economy is decelerating rapidly. Industrial
production growth has fallen to less than 2 percent annual growth in recent months and
preliminary figures for employment growth indicate that it has fallen to zero. Fourth
quarter economic growth will likely be close to 2.5 percent, with no improvement
expected for next year, depending upon external circumstances.
22.   Argentina's financing needs are significant but manageable under normal market
conditions. For the fourth quarter of 1998, public sector financing needs amount to $4.9
billion. While prudent prior borrowing and other sources of financing has secured $1.7
billion of such financing, the government still requires another $3.2 billion to satisfy its
financing needs in 1998. Based on the official economic program, the public sector
deficit for next year would amount to $2.7 billion. Amortization of $1 1 billion, and other
financing needs of $0.5 billion bring the total public financing requirement to $14.2
billion in 1999.
23.   Total external financing needs -via the balance of payments are larger. Capital
inflows required to finance 1999 foreign debt amortizations (private and public), as well
as a projected current account deficit of US$14.8 billion, amount to about US$28 billion.
6



The government has access to a US$ 2.8 billion Extended Fund Facility with the IMF.
With support from the World Bank, the IDB, and bilateral agencies, along with the
above-mentioned facility, the external financing needs for the first half of 1999 could be
met. More details of the financing plan are provided in Annex C.
24.   The following is considered a likely macro-economic scenario. It assumes that
international markets remain closed in the first part of 1999 but that extraordinary
financing from multilateral organizations and other sources, such as the domestic pension
funds, enable Argentina to meet its financing requirements. It further assumes that, in
the second half of the year, international markets gradually reopen to emerging
economies but continuing support from the multilateral organizations, especially from the
IMF, would be available. In such a scenario, the planned multilateral support (including
the IDB and IMF) aims at keeping Argentina from losing reserves to any significant
degree, and thus prevent a severe contraction and demonetization of the economy, or the
weakening of the convertibility plan. At the same time, economic activity would be
maintained, albeit at more moderate rate, with 1999 growth projected at 2 percent (see
Table 1).
25.   There are many uncertainties to this scenario. Argentina must continue to
differentiate itself in the market in order to regain its access to international capital.
Clearly, if access to those markets is not restored in the second half of 1999, financing
needs would go beyond what is presently covered in Argentina's financing plan and
likely sources, including augmented support by the IMF. A decline in foreign reserves
might be inevitable. A monetary shock and a much more severe recession could result.
On the other hand, an earlier opening of the financial markets would allow Argentina to
regain more normal financing and to grow faster. Such a scenario could result in growth
in the range of 4 to 5 percent for 1999.
7



Table 1: Argentina - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Base Scenario
(Percent of GDP)
Projected:
1997        1998        1999         2000
National Accounts
Real GDP growth                                     8.6         5.0         2.0          4.5
Total Investment                                   20.1        21.5        21.1         22.5
National Savings                                   16.6        17.1         16.8        18.2
Foreign Savings                                     3.5         4.4         4.3          4.3
Public Sector
Primary Surplus (- indicates deficit)               0.4         1.0          1.1         I .1
Interest Payments                                   1.8         2.2         2.5          2.4
Domestic                                         0.4          0.6         0.6          0.5
Foreign                                           1.4         1.6          1.9         1.9
Balance (- indicates deficit)                      -1.4        -1.2         -1.4        -1.3
Balance of Payments
Resource Balance                                   -1.7        -2.5        -2.3         -2.2
Current Account Balance                            -3.5        -4.4        -4.3         -4.3
Capital Account/b                                   4.4         4.8          3.8         5.3
Gross International Reserves in months of            6.0         5.7          5.5         5.6
imports (of goods and services /c)
Memo: GDP (US$ billion)                            325.0       345.0       356.5        378.1
a! Federal Government. Provincial govemments' aggregate deficit was 0.4 percent of GDP in 1997,
and it is projected to be in the 0.4 to 0.6 percent over the 1998-2000 period.
b/ Net flows. Difference between current account deficit and capital account surplus is change in net
international reserves, as a fraction of GDP.
C/ Goods, non-factor services and factor services
8



3. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. ADVANCING THE REFORM AGENDA
26.   The Argentine experience so far centered in changing macroeconomic rules,
reducing the size and drastically narrowing the scope of the state by dismantling
institutions that promoted protectionism and statism. In the case of Argentina.
privatization of state assets has been far reaching. and far more successful than expected.
The effort to curtail an inefficient state apparatus was the result of the prior discrediting
of the state, both in Argentina and broadly in Latin America, following a long period of
economic decline.
27.   Argentina has embarked upon a new stage of reform which shifts priorities to the
consolidation of macroeconomic stabilily'. sutstcaining high r ates of growth, and the
challenge oflpoverty reduiction. The pursuit of poverty reduction has been elusive in
Argentina despite relatively high growth. Following a dramatic decline in poverty in the
first years of the convertibility plan from a peak of over 40 percent of households in 1989
to about 17 percent in 1993, it started rising again, reaching about 26 percent of
households in 1997. This happened for two reasons: the lack of flexibility in the labor
markets to absorb the reallocation of resources set off by reforms requiring firms to be
efficient and the recession following the Tequila crisis. Both factors contributed to a
growth in unemployment, which peaked at 18.4 percent in May 1995, and has since
dropped to 13.2 percent.
28.   The challenge of poverty reduction in the context of a stable and growing
economy is the priority for the next several years. The agenda comprises the following
five broad policy areas:
(a)   Quality Investment in Human Capital
(b)   Efficient Financial Markets
(c)   Enhanced Regulatory Environment
(d)   Quality Public Administration and Fiscal Strengthening
29.   The proposed reforms are embedded in global trends and sustainability of reforms
already implemented, and address issues in some of the remaining structural deficiencies
in the economy. The proposed reforms reflect not only Argentina's own experience but
have been enriched by the experiences of other Latin American, East Asian, and OECD
countries. There is a very close interconnection among the reforms: both the reduction
in poverty, which is the first priority of the Argentine Government, and economic growth
9



would depend on reforms in the above five areas. Ultimately, the reforms can be seen as
instruments for achieving the primary goals of sustainable growth and poverty reduction.
30.   The government is committed to pursuing this new, expanded reform agenda.
Below, more details are provided for each of the five general categories of reform. The
government's commitment is expressed in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex F)
and the Policy Matrix (Annex E).
B. QUALITY INVESTMENT IN HUNMAN CAPITAL
31.   For a long time, Argentina has enjoyed a high quality of humnan capital as
reflected in social indicators which are ahead of many of its Latin American neighbors
and other merging markets. This is especially true in terms of access to education,
literacy, and average life span, thanks to social investments made early in its
development and an abundance of natural resources which have allowed high standards
of living. With a per capita income of about $8,600 in 1997, Argentina ranks among the
upper-middle income countries in the developing world.
32.   Despite a relatively high level of per capita income, Argentina has significant
levels of poverty and a highly skewed distribution of income which are exacerbated by
the impact of globalization on the demand for low-skilled workers and labor market
rigidities. In the area of greater Buenos Aires alone, 26 percent of the population is
estimated to be in poverty (October 1997). This is an increase from 17 percent in 1993.
Poverty rates outside of greater Buenos Aires are no doubt even higher: a survey of rural
poverty carried out by the Bank in two provinces showed rates twice the urban levels.
Income distribution is characterized by an upper decile with 44 percent of total income,
while the lower three deciles receive approximately II percent of total income. (Income
figures, however, exclude the impact of many social programs that deliver services free
or below cost.)
33.   Argentina has an extensive system of public social programs, including health
care, housing, nutrition and education that are often available without charge and it has
the means to make the needed investment in human capital. But there is an important
agenda ahead to restore the quality social services, to instill greater equity in those
services and to reduce poverty through concerted and expanded investment in human
capital. Targeting of existing programs tends to be inefficient, and in some cases the
majority of the benefits go to the non-poor. Access to clean water and sanitation, among
other things, lags far behind. Health services, especially for the poor, are inadequate and
education has lost its relevance especially for those in lower income groups. The
deterioration in social services and conditions has been a long process: it is primarily the
result of under investment during the protracted period of economic and political
instability and the failure of the state to fulfill its mandate especially in terms of the
inequalities in public spending that have persisted for many decades.
34.   Addressing these issues, the government has moved ahead on reforms in the
social sectors and there have been a number of dramatic changes. Social spending has
increased considerably from the lows in the mid 1 980s: per capita spending is up 20
10



percent on average. Social programs now account for 78 percent of total public
expenditures by the federal and provincial governments.
35.   One of the important areas of reform has been the social security system. The
public, pay-as-you- go system, which at the worst point of macro-crisis of the early 1 990s
was badly in arrears and not adjusted to changes in cost of living, represents the largest
share of this spending. A private system has been put in place; some provincial pensions
have been included in the national system with the support of the Bank, while the
minimum benefits for the continuing public system, albeit still relatively low compared to
the cost-of-living, have been increased to $ 152 per month. Beneficiaries receive their
public payments on time. Social security is now the single largest social program,
accounting for 40 percent of total federal public expenditures.
36.   Turning to the other major sectors-first. social safety nets--there have been
significant improvement in the design and impact of these programs, especially to since
the Tequila crisis. That crisis served to concentrate government attention to vulnerable
groups, with Bank support under the first of a series of Social Protection loans. An
information system on social programs and beneficiaries (SIEMPRO) has been put in
place; impact evaluations of a several social programs (TRABAJAR, FOPAR, ASOMA,
PROMINE, etc) have been completed; and a new social survey (Encuesta Social- a
LSMS-type survey) has been conducted.
37.   These efforts are starting to have an impact on the quality of social expenditures.
The government's TRABAJAR program, which funds the wage component of local
public works in high poverty areas, provides employment for about 1-2 percent of the
country's labor force. Recent impact evaluations indicate that it is extremely well
targeted with some 40 percent of the resources supporting the unemployed from the
bottom 5 percent of the income distribution. The Bank has supported the TRABAJAR
program with three loans (the most recent was approved in June 1998).
38.   In addition, more social programs are being done in a participatory manner,
involving local communities. The FOPAR program, which finances basic health, water
supply and other social projects responding to local initiatives, shows a very high level of
community ownership and satisfaction. Some 95 percent of FOPAR's beneficiaries are
below the poverty line. The Bank has supported FOPAR with two loans (the most recent
in October 1998). There are several other important targeted social programs, such as
ASOMA, a nutrition program for the elderly, PRANI, providing nutrition support for
children, slum upgrading programs, and programs for youths and children living in the
streets, which are clearly needed to protect vulnerable groups.
39.   In education, there have been significant changes in the structure of the system,
especially at the secondary level. Secondary schools were decentralized to the provinces
in 1991. Compulsory education has increased from seven to ten years; changes to the
curricula for primary and secondary education began in 1996 and the content is in the
process of being modernized; a network of continuing teacher training has been put in
place; standardized testing has been introduced; and administrative reforms, particularly
addressing abuse of medical absences and poor control over attendance, are being
11



implemented. In order to accommodate the school population because of the extension of
the mandatory years of schooling and more generally to upgrade the system and instill
greater equity, the government has also helped the provinces with additional financing.
Under the Pacto Federal Educativo, $ 400 million has been provided from 1995 to 1998
for secondary school expansion and, under the Plan Social Educativ'o, $ 300 million has
been spent to upgrade schools and to provide texts and other pedagogical resources in
deprived areas.
40.   At the same time as these system-wide reforms are taking effect, additional
compensatory programs to retain students from low-income families and to provide
remedial support have been started in disadvantaged areas. Only 50 percent of youthls
from poor households are enrolled in secondary schools and the graduation rate for
secondary students is very low, at about 33 percent. as compared to 80 percent in OECD
countries. This high drop-out rate is of particular concern. Among the programs in place
to address these problems, a IDB-funded program, Prograina Ncicional de Becas
Estudiantiles, of direct subsidies of $ 600 per year to poor families with students
attending schools seems to be having the desired effect of keeping these students in
school. A pilot program of full-day classes, patterned after Chile's experience, is also
being implemented, with Bank support. in the Province of Buenos Aires in order to offset
the learning disadvantages that students from poor families encounter.
41.   The results of these efforts are starting to bear fruit: recent evaluation of student
achievement at the primary level show that attainment among students in the poorest
provinces has increased even though their overall achievement still trails that of students
in wealthier provinces. Still. Argentina is working against the clock. In particular,
investment in the educational system has been historically low since the 1 980s. A the
same time, the demand for skilled workers continues to rise and average education
attainment levels are low, especially in public schools. Unemployment among workers
with tertiary education is thirty percent less than the level for workers with only
secondary education while the differential in unemployment rates between those with less
than secondary education and completed secondary education is very little indicating,
among other things. the poor quality and relevance of secondary education and the high
expectations of the market place. A recent review by the Bank of the status of education
in Argentina is presently being shared with local authorities with the goal of both taking
stock of where we are and to highlight the challenges ahead.
42.   In the health sector, there have also been major changes. While total health care
expenditures have long been high, some seven to ten percent of GDP, the results as
measured in terms of indicators or public satisfaction with quality of care do not match
the level of spending. Since the early 1 990s, the government has been implementing a
series of sweeping and promising reforms to improve the efficiency of the health
financing and delivery systems. In the area of health financing, the main reform has been
to liberalize the market for health insurance among workers who contribute to the
mandatory union-run health system. This reform, supported by the Bank, allows choice
for workers, thereby creating competition among the union-run health plans. The reform
also mandates a minimum health care package that must be provided; thus guaranteeing
workers a specific level of service from their health plan. Finally the reform improved
12



the system of off-setting automatic subsidies in the case of poor workers whose
contributions are not sufficient to finance the minimum package. At the same time, this
was intended to curb the use of these funds to finance the operating deficits and
compensate for poor management by the health plans, as happened in the past. A series
of regulations are being adopted to ensure portability of service, quality of service, and
minimum prudential and financial standards for the union-run insurance system. These
union plans themselves have been the object of restructuring and consolidation. So far,
some 28 health plans, with 3.4 million beneficiaries (43 percent of total), have been
restructured, with attendant improvements in their financial situation and quality of
service. This has restored faith by the workers that they will be able to receive medical
attention and by the health providers that they will get paid. A similar restructuring effort
took place with PAMI, the health insurer/provider for the retired. Through cost cutting
measures, PAMI has reduced costs by almost $ 1 billion per year.
43.   Other reforms have focused on health care delivery in the public sector and
programs for the poor. The major change has been the introduction of hospital
autonomy: public hospitals, all operated at the provincial level following decentralization
in the early 1 990s, are now allowed to collect and retain fees paid by insurers (whether
union-run or otherwise). This has been coupled with programs, financed by the Bank, to
train hospital managers. implement cost-accounting systems, license health care
professionals, and ensure quality assurance and accreditation. While still young, these
reforms are gradually permeating the system and more than 70 percent of the public
hospitals have introduced cost-recovery.
44.   The program which has had the most visible impact thus far in terms of quality of
public health care especially for the poor is that for maternal and child care services.
This program, launched in 1993 with Bank assistance, finances facilities and services in
the poorest communities in 15 provinces. In addition to improving access and utilization
among the poorest, the program has been successful in shifting health care delivery from
passive, on-demand, clinical ambulatory care towards more effective, pro-active
community and family interventions which focus priority on health promotion and
disease prevention. In part, this explains the dramatic reduction in infant mortality from
26 deaths per 1000 births in 1990 to 19 deaths per 1000 births in 1997.
45.   Against this backdrop of many good initiatives but with more time needed for
results, the government intends to take actions to advance the agenda in several key areas
while continuing to work on systemic institutional changes under on-going operations.
The key areas are: (i) to improve the targeting of social programs for the poor, including
adding to our understanding of who are poor; and (ii) to increase the equity and
efficiency of existing social sector programs in education, health and nutrition. In
parallel, the Bank is undertaking a Poverty Assessment (the previous poverty report was
prepared in 1995) which would be used as the basis for engaging the government in a
policy dialogue on further improvements to its poverty-related policies and programs.
Among other things, the poverty assessment will examine access to social programs by
the poor and the role of gender in the effectiveness of social programs.
13



46.   Poverty Measurement. Targeting of social programs has been hindered by the
absence of a national poverty line and data on poverty outside of greater Buenos Aires.
Many of the survey tools used by the national statistical agency (INDEC) have not been
revised for more than 25 years. Improvements are underway with support from the Bank
and IDB, under the regional program to strengthen poverty related data as well as under
specific social protection operations. Data on 1996 and 1997 consumption and prices
(Encuesta de gastos) outside of Buenos Aires have recently become available. With
these data, the government will be able to construct poverty line for six regions and, in
conjunction with the existing household survey, provide poverty estimates for all urban
areas. In addition, it will undertake an evaluation of its unsatisfied basic needs index
(NBI - Necesidades Bisicas Insatisfechas), in order to improve its utility as a poverty
measure. The Bank undertook a critique of the NBI, at the request of the government,
and proposed several areas for improvement. The current index combines various indices
of basic needs, but excludes measures of health and education. A working group has
been established to agree on revised national poverty lines (for both urban and rural
areas) and the revision of the components of the NBI index. This will be done as a
condition of third tranche. A new Poverty Map. based on the new NBI. will be available
for the targeting of social programs after the census in 2000.
47.   In the meantime, more extensive use will be made of other measures of social
needs and tracking of program participants. At present, SISFAM, basically a system for
determining eligibility for social programs, is being used successfully in four IDB-
financed social programs. The government has prepared a plan to expand the use of
SISFAM and will progressively expand its use in at least six other programs according to
that plan by third tranche.
48.   Social Sector Expenditures. While overall social spending levels have increased
significantly, there are concerns about efficiency; the potential for duplication is high
among diverse agencies; and targeting is not always present, or according to an explicit
criteria or systematically applied across programs. At the federal level, these targeted
programs, in total about $ 2 billion per year including unemployment insurance, account
for a relatively small share of total spending (in contrast to social security and universal
programs in health and education) but they are important in terms of poverty reduction.
Because of this, the government has undertaken a review of the beneficiary incidence of
social spending, financed under the Social Protection I Loan, and plans to undertake a
comprehensive review its public spending, with financing provided under the Public
Investment Strengthening Loan, in 1999. The Secretariat of Social Development, with
Bank support, has already contracted an external review of its programs to ensure that
they are being efficiently managed. Based on that review, a time-bound action plan will
be agreed to implement administrative and managerial improvements.
49.   One specific area-nutrition--has been highlighted as having a high potential for
improving impact and efficiency. There has been a rapid expansion and proliferation of
these programs in recent years and the knowledge base on which to design these
programs is weak. Under the Bank-financed Maternal and Child Health Loan, the
government expects to undertake the first ever national survey of nutrition. As a first step
in improving the management of these programs, the government will consolidate
14



nutrition programs under one management unit in the Secretariat of Social Development,
as a condition of second tranche, and eventually consolidate all nutrition programs into a
single program, targeted on the basis of beneficiary income levels and health or nutrition
indicators, as a condition of third tranche. Another program which has been identified as
having a high potential for improved efficiency and targeting is the government's
program of non-contributory pensions which are granted at the discretion of the executive
and legislative branches. The government will undertake a review of the program, as a
condition of second tranche, and prepare new criteria on the allocation and eligibility of
beneficiaries according to poverty criteria as a condition of third tranche.
50.   At this time of crisis, it is also important to safeguard those programs which are
critical for the poor. The government has identified a select number of health, education
and social development programs, on the basis of their effective targeting and
acknowledged quality, to be safeguarded during this time of fiscal restraint. These
progams include spending on basic education, maternal and child health care, nutrition,
vaccination, chagas eradication, AIDS, rural poverty and emergency employment
programs (Policy Matrix, Table 1 of Annex D). The total amount dedicated to these
programs will be protected from any new budget cutbacks relative to the amount spend in
1998, estimated to be at least $ 680 million. This would be verified as conditions of
both second and third tranche. In parallel, as part of the provincial programs, budget
reforms will be made to ensure that funds transferred to the provinces for social programs
are not diverted to other purposes.
51    Education. Existing Bank and IDB loans are helping to improve the quality of
education in the primary and secondary education areas-working directly with
provincial governments. There is still a long way to go to improve educational quality at
all levels and it will take time and cost money. At present, spending on education at 3.4
percent of GDP is lower than the average for the region and significantly below spending
by OECD members. To address this, the government is committed to increase spending
and has done so: as a percentage of total public spending, education's share has
increased from 11 percent to 13.4 percent. However, the demand for additional resources
for the system-including that needed to improve teacher incentives and to cope with
demands for skilled labor-are increasingly difficult to accommodate within the public
resource envelop.
52.   Besides striving for continued efficiency improvements throughout the system,
additional cost recovery is necessary in tertiary education. Savings should be channeled
into the lower levels and to scholarships for poor students. At present, substantial
resources from the education budget go to support an expensive system of higher
education, which for most students is virtually free, and benefits largely the non-poor.
Per student spending in universities is estimated to be 2.5 times what it was in 1980,
while per student spending on primary and secondary education are below 1980 levels in
real terms. Moreover, this spending is increasingly regressive: recent statistics indicate
that only 10 percent of the youths from the poorest families attend university--this is
down from about 21 percent in 1990-while almost 50 percent of students from the
richest families attend university, up from 38 percent in 1990. The dependence on
public universities remains high: while some 30 percent of student attend private primary
15



schools, only 12 percent of students attend private universities. At the same time,
university students are taking longer and longer to complete their studies (the average is
now more than eight years) adding to the cost of the system.
53.   A serious debate on the equity of the present system, the level of public funding
for universities and the role of tuition fees to recover costs has yet to take place in
Argentina. A start has made with the passage of the new federal law in 1995: this law
provides for quality assurance and accreditation of institutions of higher learning and
allows universities to charge fees, especially for post-graduate studies. In addition, the
Bank has provided financing, under the Higher Education loan, to support improvements
in the quality of public university education through a competitive fund, FOMEC.
However, there is a need to move more rapidly on transforming the system. The
government will formulate a specific policy and strategy, as a condition of second
tranche, to carry the debate forward.
54.   Although the bulk of public university funding (about 85 percent) is directly
allocated by the Congress. the government has begun to apply eligibility criteria to the
direct funding by the Ministry of Education. Since 1997, it has been agreed that any
budget increases to universities will be managed by the Ministry and allocated according
to specific criteria. Besides criteria such as quality and accreditation, the government
proposes that the allocation of funds under two programs (quality improvements and
infrastructure) totaling $ 10 million per year in 1999 (because of budget cuts, the level of
spending has been reduced from $ 50 mlillion in 1998) will be based on measures by the
recipient universities to cost-recovery for post-graduate programs, provide scholarships
based on merit for students from low income families, and present a consolidated budget
which indicates all sources of revenues and expenses. These revised criteria will be
applied to the budget for 1999 and will be verified as a condition of second tranche.
Extended the recently introduced national evaluation system, the government will
undertake an evaluation of all fifth year secondary students, as a condition of second
tranche, and extend that evaluation for third year poli-modal students in 1998 and 1999
and record the results of the evaluation in the respective official school records, as a
condition of third tranche.
55.   Health. As noted above, Argentina has underway a program to reform the health
insurance system. The strategy is to continue to support that process by extending it to
provincial health insurance programs (for provincial government employees) and other
specialized programs (e.g., the Armed Forces) later in 2000. In parallel, the strategy is to
work with a few provincial governments to pilot programs to put provincial spending for
the uninsured poor on a capita basis and offer more choice in services to the poor. While
this strategy is being put in place, there are several refinements to the on-going reform
program which would enhance its effectiveness.
56.   First, efforts to improve the cost-effectiveness of the government's health
program for the retired. PAMI, will be expanded by the competitive out-sourcing of
health care among major private health providers. As a condition of second tranche, a
reputable external consultant will have been contracted to undertake the evaluation of the
bids received for the out-sourcing and, as a condition of third tranche, the related
16



contracts would have been signed. The governrment will also ensure that new regulations.
designed and issued under the on-going reform program, with Bank support, will be
applied consistently. The application of specific regulations will be verified as a
condition of second and third tranche. In addition, the Superindency will issue norms on
crisis resolution of the health plans as condition of third tranche. Finally, to add to the
transparency and increase consumer awareness, the government will prepare and publicly
release a report on the status of the restructured union-run health plans, as a condition of
second tranche. It will carry out a survey of consumer satisfaction, as a condition of
second tranche, and make the results publicly available as a condition of third tranche.
57.   Unemployment Insurance and Labor Reform. A major concern in Argentina,
because of the currency board arrangement, is how to enhance productivity, especially in
view of the country's traditionally strong labor unions, rigidities in the labor market and
existing highly centralized collective agreements. On the fiscal side, the government has
taken steps to reduce non-wage labor charges and plans to continue that process as part of
a new tax reform. However, as of now, there is no national consensus on the next steps
on labor reform, and groups which desire to liberalize the current labor law are
counterbalanced by those which seek an even more restrictive environment which would
protect existing employment and further raise labor costs. A reflection of this debate is
the recent adoption of a new labor law that eliminated temporary contracts, reduced the
probation period for new employees, and further centralized collective bargaining at the
same time as reducing severance costs for workers with little seniority, eliminating
selected special regimes (e.g., taxi drivers, domestic workers), and mandating arbitration
for expired collective agreements to be started in two years. While there are some
positive features, the negative impact of these reforms on temporary contracts is
particularly worrisome in the current economic environment. A window of opportunity
exists to continue to lower severance costs, through the introduction of a new fully
capitalized unemployment insurance scheme based on individual accounts. A study of
such a scheme will be done by the government as a conditon of second tranche and based
on that study a proposal prepared on how to enact the scheme as a condition of third
tranche. Care has to be taken to ensure that the new scheme would eliminate severance
payments, and lower overall labor costs and uncertainty.
C. EFFICIENT FINANCIAL MARKETS
58.   The financial sector has made significant progress since the beginning of the
convertibility plan: institutions have adapted their policies and products to a low-
inflation environment and the sector is an active participant in global financial markets.
A recent review of the financial sector by the Bank (report no. 1 7864-AR, dated
September 28, 1998) shows that the system is in a much better shape than at the time of
the Tequila crisis and, especially in terms of supervision and regulation, standards are
among the highest in the developing world. However, progress has been uneven: while
the banking sector has been strengthened, development of the capital market has lagged
behind. This has an important impact on the country's long term ability to increase its
domestic savings rate and to reduce its dependence on foreign capital. Additional
reforms are also needed to improve access to credit for small and medium scale
17



enterprises. The proposed operation provides an opportunity for the government to
address some of the most pressing impediments to development of a sound and robust
financial system.
59.   The Banking Sector. As documented in the Bank's recent review, Argentina's
banking sector has gone through a number of changes. In particular, since the Tequila
crisis, there has been substantial consolidation, privatization. and increased entry by
foreign institutions. The sector is in the midst of a restructuring process which saw the
number of financial entities in the banking system cut by a third to about 1 10 entities at
present. Based on current policy to treat foreign capital in a similar vein to domestic
capital, the additional entry of solid, diversified foreign banks should strengthen the
system further.
60.   In assessing the systemic risks facing the sector, it is important to differentiate
among banks. Relative to domestic banks, foreign ones are larger, are growing more
rapidly, and have much higlher portfolio quality than domestic ones (either public or
private). There is also variation in the quality of the private domestic banlks, and it is the
smallest ones (but certainly not all small banks) that appear to pose the greatest risks of
failure. Moreover, the weakest banks, both public and domestic private, tend to be
smaller and to have lower ratios of liquid to total assets. The combination of weak
portfolios and low liquidity implies that these banks are most vulnerable to exogenous
shocks. The portfolio quality results are reflected in 1997 profitability figures. Concerns
over the low profitability of the banking system appear to be structural, reflecting more
the problematic state of public banks and small banks, with the ten largest banks having a
return-to-equity of 15.3 percent in 1997.
61.   There has been a fast expansion of deposits and credit which in an of itself carries
risks in terms of portfolio quality and management. In 1997, Argentine deposits
increased by 28 percent and credit, by 16 percent. However, this expansion has to be
seen in the context of an economy that still suffers from low monetization (M2 accounts
for only 25 percent of GDP) and relatively low debt-to-equity ratios in the corporate
sector. The global financial crisis, moreover, has dampened that expansion and the
growth of deposits has since been modest and credit expansion halted in mid-1 998.
62.   Privatization of Public Banks. Efforts should continue to reduce the presence of
public banks in the system, including national, provincial and municipal banks. These
banks are still a significant share of total deposits and, in terms of the quality of the
system, the public banks have posed the biggest problem: The main issues with such
banks are the misallocation of resources associated with non-performing loans, about 22
percent of their portfolios, and the lack of fiscal discipline in the public banks' dealings
with their state owners. Their portfolio quality is low regardless of size, and this could
worsen after more rigorous audits. While posing a lesser systemic risk, they do pose a
fiscal burden and present a high opportunity cost to the government. If a financial crisis
is associated to a fiscal crisis, public banks could create a systemic risk as well.
63.   So far, the federal government has taken steps, with Bank support, to cleanup a
part of its banking portfolio by closing BANADE (the former development bank) and
18



putting its second-tier housing mortgage bank up for sale. The law authorizing that sale
of the latter has already been passed and the prospectus ready to go; however, market
conditions are not conducive to the sale, and the government expects to offer the bank
once market conditions are more favorable. This would be done as a condition of second
tranche, subject to market conditions. On the provincial level, fifteen public banks have
been sold, with the support of the Bank, and several more are possible candidates. This
process will be further facilitated by amending the terms of the agreement with the
provinces to require sale of the residual (poorly performing) portfolios of the privatized
provincial banks. Additional privatization would be supported as part of the proposed
Provincial Reform III operation.
64.   Despite advances in provincial bank privatization, there is strong public resistance
to privatize the remaining federal bank, the Banco de la Naci6n, which carries symbolic
importance and is seen by the agricultural sector as its only source of financing. As a
result, it is unlikely that the political support for privatization can be mobilized, despite
the government's willingness. The government, nevertheless, is committed to ensure that
banking regulations and standards apply equally to both public and private banks and will
review its supervisory practices accordingly as a condition of second tranche, and present
a plan of action by third tranche. The Central Bank is currently completing a
comprehensive public audit of Banco de Ia Naci6n, that will provide a clearer picture of
its financial health. That audit is expected to be completed in late 1999. Also as a
condition of second tranche, the government will further issue a public document
detailing all of the explicit and implicit guarantees that it maintains in support of the
Banco de la Naci6n.
65.   Small Business Access to Credit. Another major weakness in the financial sector
relates to the access to credit by small and medium scale enterprises (SME). The 1990s
have provided significant advances in availability of competitively priced credit for large
corporations, including access to foreign capital markets. However, the middle market
firms and small businesses have yet to fully benefit from liberalization of the financial
sector. Factors responsible for consistently high interest rates and limited availability of
credit for SMEs include a weak credit culture and legal and institutional constraints.
66.   Secured Transactions. One of the most important barriers to the development of
new credit instruments for SMEs is the inadequate legal protection provided to lenders,
especially with regard to secured transactions. The current legal framework restricts the
use of many types of goods as collateral, has high costs for verifying title and registering
collateral and is difficult and costly to enforce. A modified law for secured transactions,
based on the type of legal framework employed in common law countries, has been
developed by the Central Bank. The new law would establish a clear legal foundation for
lending to SMEs on the basis of equipment purchases, inventories, accounts receivable
and letters of credit, which is now almost nonexistent in Argentina. It is the
government's intention to submit this law to Congress as a condition of second tranche.
67.   Leasing. Small businesses in Argentina also lack access to non-bank sources of
finance which may offer more flexible terms than traditional loan contracts. One of the
most important of these alternatives is equipment leasing. In 1997, equipment leases
19



worth approximately $250 million were written but, given the size of the economy, this is
only a fraction of potential demand. Both the legal and tax treatment of leasing have
restricted the industry's growth. The 1995 law, which provides the legal foundation for
leasing, poses several problems, including a restrictive definition on goods which can be
leased, limits on who can extend leases and excessive regulation of leasing contract terms
and conditions. The government has drafted a revised leasing law which will be
submitted to Congress as a condition of second tranche.
68.   Improving the Regulatory Framework. The Central Bank has introduced a very
sound framework of prudential regulations, some of them novel, aimed primarily at the
systemic risks facing the banking system. An international comparison of regulation of
various banking systems in Latin America and East Asia by using extended CAMEL
standards shows that Singapore, Argentina, and Hong Kong stand out as having the
strongest banking regulations. Across virtually all categories, Argentina dominates the
East Asian countries that have been beset by financial crises. Thus, whereas no banking
system is ever immune to sufficiently large shocks, the Argentine regulatory system
appears to be among the most robust, as it needs to be, given the constraint on official
intervention inherent under the convertibility plan.
69.   As a key part of the process of improving the framework for sound banking, the
Argentine financial authorities made a number of regulatory changes aimed at making the
banking system more resilient to shocks. The principal reforms adopted by the
government were:
*  the increase in the minimum capital ratio to 11.5 percent of risk weighted assets,
to discourage excessive risk-taking;
e  a boost in liquidity requirements, to 20 percent of (most) bank liabilities as of
February, 1998, from 15 percent two years earlier. These requirements now can
be held in a variety of forms. Thus, although high liquidity requirements
normally constitute a burden, these are remunerated and flexible;
*  enhanced disclosure on borrowers. Information is collected and distributed
through two Central Bank facilities - the Central de Riesgo (which tracks large
corporate entities) and the Central de Informaci6n Crediticia (which provides
information on loans of greater than $50 to individuals and small firms);
*  the subordinated debt requirement, which creates a class of bank debt holders
with the incentive to monitor bank performance; and
*  a contingent repurchase (repo) facility, which gives the Central Bank the option to
sell dollar-denominated bonds to banks subject a buy-back clause.
70.   Mechanisms for bank failure resolution are constrained by institutional and legal
impediments. To facilitate the creation of a more effective early intervention
infrastructure, there will be a review and presentation of a plan of action under this loan
of such processes, including relations between the Superintendency of Banks, the Central
20



Bank, and the deposit insurance fund (SEDESA). Such action will be complemented by
presentation of draft legislation protecting from personal liability financial sector
supervisors and regulators for good faith actions taken in the performance of their official
duties, a legal impediment which creates moral hazards in current bank failure resolution
efforts. Furthermore, authorities will review regulatory guidelines for proper bank
governance, affecting owners, management, and outside directors, and present a plan of
action to strengthen corporate disclosure and governance.
71.   The Repurchase Facility. The last item above is one of the most novel features of
the changes since 1995 in creating confidence in Argentina's banking system. To guard
against a repeat of the Tequila crisis, when domestic banks lost some 18 percent of their
deposit base and credit to all but the best borrowers was severely curtailed, the Central
Bank (Banco Central de la RepzTblica Argentina-BCRA) has created a new line of
defense for the financial system. Such defense creates a needed cushion to the system,
first by preventing a shock to the system by maintaining confidence and reducing the
probability of a run, and secondly, in the event of an actual liquidity shock, by reducing
the impact on banks' balance sheets. The Central Bank's repo facility acts as the last
line of defense in dealing with such liquidity shocks.
72.   The repo facility allows the BCRA to engage in repurchase transactions with a
syndicate of private commercial banks. It has the option of selling dollar-denominated
government bonds to the participating banks, with an agreement to buy them back in two
to five years, depending on the terms agreed with the individual banks (with an
embedded implicit interest rate). Thus, the facility permits the BCRA to engage in
discount lending effectively without "creating money" and allows the BCRA to act as a
lender of last resort without violating its commitment to maintain a 100 percent dollar
reserve against liabilities. These options may be exercised at any time by the Central
Bank, except if Argentina defaults on an international debt commitment. In case the
facility is called, Argentina will have to post collateral in bonds exceeding by 25 percent
the amount of credit provided by the international banks. Also, in case the international
price of the bonds held as collateral drops by more than 5 percent, the Central Bank will
have to meet margin calls. Repos are thus over-collateralized by 20 percent to prevent
the banks from bearing the risk of loss from depreciation of the underlying securities
during the period they hold those instruments. The intent is to move down the liquidity
and risk continuum from pure government debt to low-risk private debt.
73.   As of June 1998, repo contracts were written on bonds for $6.2 billion with 13
banks. The target is to maintain the repo facility equal to approximately 10 percent of the
deposit base of the banking system. The duration of the option contracts - that is the
period over which the strike price has been locked in - varies from 2 to 5 years,
depending on the issuing bank. The contracts bind both sides over their duration.
Extensions to the agreements (beyond the contracted durations) can be negotiated every
three months. The BCRA's strategy is to maintain a window of option for a minimum of
two years.
74.   The facility effectively permits the BCRA to borrow at an average of LIBOR plus
2 percent but the individual commercial bank contracts are not priced identically. Rather
21



than determine a single price at auction, the BCRA ranked contracts by price and
awarded them until it had reached a price that it was unwilling to pay. The Central Bank
is likely to exercise its options (if ever) on a pro-rata basis for all the options, rather than
to exercise on a progressive cost basis (using the cheapest ones first).
75.   In the event of a liquidity crisis, the Central Bank would transfer the funds
received by exercising the facility to domestic banks facing a liquidity crisis, these banks
in turn would presumably use the funds to pay deposit withdrawals. Banks would
transfer the underlying securities involved in the repo to the BCRA as collateral for the
loans offered by the BCRA to the banks, and the funds lent by the BCRA would be the
funds received by the BCRA from the exercise of its options.
76.   In this time of increased market uncertainty and volatility, it is important that the
facility be enhanced specially since Argentina has a weak lender of last resort. First, the
size of the facility must keep pace with the size of the deposit base (the target is about 10
percent of deposits). The Central Bank is actively engaged in discussions with private
banks in order to maintain that level, and believes that Bank support is essential in
maintaining the attractiveness of the facility. One of the ways of doing this is to ensure
that there are adequate resources to respect the margin requirements. There are two risks
associated with those requirements: first, that the value of the bonds falls beyond five
percent; and second, that sufficient bonds or cash would be available for BCRA to make
up the lose in value. To address this latter risk, the government has requested special
support from the World Bank and the IDB.
77.   Capital Markets. The Argentine capital markets have developed significantly in
recent years but are still less developed than the banking system. Despite the difference
in the speed of development, they form an integral part of the Argentine financial system.
particularly since financial holding companies provide both investment and banking
services. While the development of the capital markets has been slow, the future
prospects for capital markets growth are excellent, particularly in view of the emergence
of institutional investors. Since 1994, the emergence of such investors has been
spearheaded by the new capitalized private pension fund system, and more recently by
the increased participation of mutual funds.
78.   Insurance. The insurance sector began to modernize in the early 1 990s which
resulted in the closure of the state reinsurance company (INDER), privatization of the
Ca/a de Ahorros y Seguros (the largest insurance company) and substitution of premium
and product controls with solvency monitoring. Despite these advances, the industry
remains one of the weaker segments of the market. Entry of new firms of the insurance
industry has been prohibited for the past two decades. Although existing firms could be
sold to new investors, the restriction served to reduce competition and encourage the
continued operation of more than 250 companies. Many of these firms are no more than
brokers, selling assets to re-insurers, but the fragmentation of the market has contributed
to high operating and marketing costs and poor customer service as measured by low loss
ratios (ratio of claims settled to net premiums). In 1997, the industry reported losses of
15 percent on book value. The lack of development of the sector is also evident in the
22



continued dominance of automobile insurance (41 percent of the total insurance market)
and low penetration of life insurance (7 percent of the total).
79.   The government has taken steps to strengthen the insurance market. It let the
prohibition on entry expire in October 1998. Another measure is that it has gradually
increased the minimum capital requirement for existing firms from $550,000 to $3
million beginning September 30, 1998. The government is committed to prepare an
action plan as condition of second tranche and put in place a satisfactory system of
enforcement of these new capital requirements as a condition of third tranche. These
measures will force weak institutions out of the market and encourage consolidations.
The transition to a more competitive, open market also requires modernizing the legal
framework for insurance. The government also intends to replace the existing legal
framework which reflects a market structure based on a state re-insurer and provide
virtually no treatment of life and annuity products.
80.   The supervision of insurance firms is being strengthened to ensure that regulators
have access to timely and accurate information and the capability to enforce prudential
requirements. The government has adopted a "fit and proper" standard for managers and
owners and enacted new regulations on reserve management to limit risky investments.
The tax on insurance premiums, which represented an excessive tax on the business, is
being gradually reduced from 8.5 percent to 0.1 percent by July 2002. A review of the
legal framework for insurance and an initial consultancy to strengthen the
Superintendency of Insurance (SSN) have also been undertaken by the government,
financed with Bank assistance under the Capital Markets TA loan. The government will
submit to Congress a draft law which improves the legal framework for the industry,
including the solvency monitoring of insurance companies, separating insurance
businesses from other business units, adopting an early warning/detection system,
strengthening the process of resolving insurance companies, and establishing protection
of insurance consumers, as a condition of third tranche.
81.   Mutual Funds and Securities. The mutual fund industry has grown very rapidly in
Argentina since the Tequila crisis. The industry reported total assets of $ 5.4 billion at
the end of 1997, distributed between approximately 200 funds, up from only $ 300
million in assets in 1994. However, the Law for Mutual Funds restricted fund
investments outside the country to 25 percent of the total. Even though the local
securities commission, CNV, interpreted this restriction more broadly, including any
Mercosur member nation as a domestic investment, restriction on investments in foreign
markets reduces diversification and tends to increase volatility. It also limits the product
choices of potential investors and thereby weakens the industry. To address this problem,
the government will submit to Congress a modified law which removes the geographic
restriction on mutual fund investments as a condition of second tranche.
82.   Excessive reliance on rating agencies is another factor which is increasing the cost
of equity finance. All bonds and short-term commercial paper must be rated by two
agencies before being emitted. This creates a captive market for the rating agencies and
significantly adds to the cost of accessing the capital markets. Securities must also be
rated if they are to be purchased directly by the pension funds. Since the rating
23



requirement specifies that the rating agencies must operate in Argentina to be considered
valid, this requirement forces firms which are listed in foreign exchanges and rated by
international agencies to obtain additional ratings in Argentina. The government will
undertake a review of these regulations, as a condition of second tranche, and prepare an
action plan to reform the rating industry, taking into account the conclusions of that
review as a condition of third tranche. Satisfactory progress in implementing that plan is
also expected as a condition of third tranche, including if necessary passage of resolutions
by the relevant regulatory bodies such as CNV and the Central Bank.
83.   Harmonizing Taxes in the Financial Sector. There are numerous inconsistencies
and contradictions in the tax structure which discriminates between financial service
providers and instruments in Argentina. Two examples are the leasing industry and
insurance. In the case of leasing, the differential impact of the value-added tax (IVA) on
banks and specialized leasing companies is reported to create an advantage of 200 basis
points for the former. The tax disincentive for leasing has discouraged foreign
investment, including IFC participation. and has reduced the growth of dedicated firms.
In the case of the insurance industry, taxes on premiums are very high, reducing the
competitiveness of insurance products. Although the federal tax on premiums are being
reduced (see para. 80), there are still municipal taxes of 0.5-1.0 percent on premiums.
84.   In general, the tax system should strive for neutrality, so that market forces are
driving the financial market and not tax rules. A comprehensive study, according to
terms of reference which have already been agreed, will be undertaken by the
government as a condition of second tranche. By release of the third tranche, the
government will have submitted to Congress proposed amendments in order to introduce
greater neutrality.
85.   Regulatory Coordination. The coordination of regulations and supervision of
financial intermediaries also needs to be strengthened. Increasingly, financial
intermediaries are involved in several lines of business supervised by separate regulatory
agencies: the Central Bank; the National Securities Commission (CNV); the
Superintendent of Insurance (SSN); the Superintendent of Pension Funds (SAFJP); and
the Superintendent of Worker's Compensation (SART). Most banks also have securities
operations and the largest financial conglomerates combine banking, insurance, pension
funds and securities dealings. Such conglomerates complicate the task of supervisors by
providing opportunities for shifting risks between firms in the group. Holding companies
also make it more difficult to detect violations of regulations, such as prohibitions on
insider trading and connected lending. In fact, local law does not define what constitutes
a common economic group, although the Central Bank has established criteria designed
to restrict connected lending. Conglomerates also facilitate regulatory arbitrage by
concentrating activities where regulation is weakest or supervision most relaxed.
86.   The financial sector regulatory bodies need to begin to develop protocols for
managing financial conglomerates. A first step is to develop mechanisms to share
information and establish regular meetings to discuss general problems or issues
concerning specific institutions. Another key step is to provide greater protection to
financial regulators from legal action related to the good-faith discharge of their official
24



duties. This has proven to be a major impediment in the timely resolution of banking
failures, for example, and puts regulatory staff at personal risk. The government will
therefore present to Congress a draft law which provides such protection, as a condition
of third tranche.
D. ENHANCED REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
87.   In both developed and developing countries, there is overwhelming evidence of
significant potential gains from effective regulatory reform. Such reforms are designed to
eliminate barriers to economic activity and reduce administrative procedures and costs,
while regulate natural monopolies, and ensure effective competition in markets while
protecting consumer rights from a health, safety and environment point of view.
88.   Argentina has implemented one of the world's most ambitious and successful
structural reform in these areas. As part of its overall reform program, it has introduced
effective competition in the domestic market by opening up its trade regime, removing
barriers to foreign investment, liberalizing domestic goods and capital markets and
broadly deregulating the economy. In addition, Argentina has also been one of the
forerunners in introducing competition in infrastructure services through sector reforms
and introduction of private participation through divestment and concession contracts.
Since 1989, private participation has been invited in virtually all major infrastructure
sectors - telecommunications, electricitv, gas, ports, railroads, toll roads, airports and
water. Within the overall objectives of competition, promotion of entry and efficiency,
state monopolies have been unbundled and privatized, sectors restructured and regulatory
framework have been introduced in most sub-sectors.
89.   Argentina's achievements have been impressive in electricity, gas, transport and
telecommunications. In electricity, the sector was divided between generation,
transmission and distribution, and 25 new business units were created to introduce
competition. The competitive segments of generation and production were opened to
entry without detailed regulatory scrutiny, while transmission and distribution are
regulated under a price-cap regime. The restructured electricity and gas industries now
have non-discriminatory access to their transmission networks. In telecommunications,
the sector was privatized, and two regional monopolies were created with initial
exclusivity for the provision of basic services; this arrangement is now set to expire in
1999. Value added and cellular services were immediately opened to competitive entry.
A decree has been issued to phase in full liberalization of the telecom sector, and a new
law is being prepared to embody those measures.
90.   In the transport sector, Argentina has entered into concessions in virtually all
sub-sectors -- railways, ports, toll roads and airports. Port restructuring and privatization
fostered competition both between ports and within ports. In the port of Buenos Aires,
for example, all terminals compete for cargo movement and handling. Key port activities
were further liberalized. In the railroad sector, the freight network was partitioned into
25



six sub-networks which were then concessioned. Both in passenger and freight services,
the state remains the owner of the fixed facilities, including track, stations and the rolling
stock. In the water sector, Argentina was a pioneer with the concessioning of the Buenos
Aires water services company and followed by several other municipal water services.
91.   Rationalization of the Regulatory System. Given that virtually all infrastructure
services in Argentina are provided by private providers, the need for an effective
regulatory framework is key to promoting efficiency. Although Argentina set up
regulatory entities in all infrastructure sectors when private participation was introduced.
the overall performance of these regulatory institutions has been mixed. The system has
evolved piecemeal and in a fragmented fashion; it lacks consistency in the agency
structures, administrative procedures and economic and technical criteria. Additionally,
as most of the regulatory entities have been created by decree rather than law, the gas and
electricity regulatory agencies being the exception, the system lacks stability because the
agency structure, the tenure of the regulators and their administrative procedures can be
changed by decree. Not unexpectedly, the gas and electricity agencies, which have been
created by law, have shown better performance than some of the others.
92.   A corollary issue is the lack of autonomy of the regulatory agencies from the
executive branch. Under their legal framework, they are subject to oversight by the
executive branch and to an automatic executive review of their decisions in case of an
appeal. Regulators perceive this automatic review, combined with their own insecurity of
tenure, as limiting their operation. As a further symbol of the lack of independence of the
regulatory agencies, though their financing sources are often specified in the concession
contracts, their actual operating budgets are often subject to decisions by the executive
branch. On the other side of the coin, the regulatory agencies are not accountable for
their performance and there is a general perception that, in most sectors, they have not
been adequately pro-active in monitoring compliance with contractual obligations and
sector performance. Thus far, there has been little review of the effectiveness or
appropriateness of regulatory procedures or the impact of their decisions.
93.   The government is committed to rationalizing its regulatory entities. It will
submit a draft law to Congress, as a condition of third tranche, to harmonize
administrative procedures, economic and technical approaches followed by utilities,
rights and process of non-binding consultation with consumers, process of appealing
regulatory decisions and public disclosure of information, including requirements for
annual review of operational procedures and impact of regulatory decisions to be
undertaken by independent firms. The same draft law (or equivalent legal instrument)
will include a provision allowing the executive branch to forego its right to hear appeals
if such appeals are based on technical and analytical decisions. In addition, the
government will prepare an action plan , as a condition of third tranche, to address the
issues of independence of regulators and financial resources.
94.   Regulation of The Transport Sector. One of the most noticeable areas of
fragmented regulation is in transport. The different sub-sectors that move freight cargo,
such as roads, ports, railroads, are under different regulators, whose approaches and
policies differ and do not always work to promote efficient multi-modal transportation.
26



The government, based on an agreement to be reached with the Bank on the overall
structure as a condition of second tranche, will determine the general structure and
responsibilities of a new regulatory agency or agencies, as a condition of third tranche.
E. QUALITY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND FISCAL STRENGTHENING
95.   The process of reforming the state is far from complete. Argentina is a federal
country, with a complex set of fiscal relations and strongly entrenched provincial rights
and responsibilities over natural resources, among other things. Provincial
responsibilities, moreover, have increased, relative to the federal government, as the
result of decentralization, especially in health and education. Provinces now account for
almost half of public expenditures and face their own problems of public administration,
fiscal equity and governance which are being addressed in parallel through a series of
provincial development and reforms loans and monitoring through non-lending services.
At the same time, the role of the federal government, particularly in infrastructure as
noted above, has dramatically been altered as a result of privatization and deregulation.
This transition to an economy dominated by private, rather than public, decisions has
placed higher demands on the quality of the public service. According to various cross-
country indicators, levels of institutional performance and integrity, while they are
improving, are perceived to be low.
96.   The issue of fiscal equity is the critical feature of Argentina's reform program.
On the side of expenditures, the government remains firm in its efforts to control public
spending, especially at this time of uncertainty (see para. 18). On the other side of the
equation, revenues, Argentina has successfully eliminated many distortionary taxes and
reduced its reliance on tax handles. A major achievement was the reduction of export
tariffs and duties on imports, which for years had been a main source of public revenue.
A value-added-tax (IVA) was implemented and efforts are underway to generalize that
tax. Changes to tax administration, with the support of the Bank and IDB, have helped to
build the tax authority's capacity. Still, there are serious problems: VAT charges, at 21
percent, are high and tax evasion persists, with only about 50 percent of possible taxes
actually collected; the courts are ill-equipped to handle tax fraud and evasion cases; and
consumption and asset taxes account for a disproportionately large share of total revenues
as compared to taxes on corporate profit and earned income. As noted earlier (see paras.
57 and 83), there are specific problems in the area of non-wage labor taxes and
harmonization taxes in the financial sector, among other areas. Reforms addressing
reducing evasion, extending the value-added tax, and increasing profit and income taxes
are underway or contemplated under the government's letter of intent with the Fund.
97.   Reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations. Argentina's federalism is grounded
in the sharing of fiscal revenues. Total transfers to the provinces were $18.2 billion in
1997, just under 6 percent of GDP, and financing about 56 percent of total provincial
government expenditures. The current system of "coparticipation" is a complex mix of
one large revenue-sharing pool (generating $11.5 billion or 41 percent of provincial
current revenues in 1997) and a series of tax-sharing programs. The distribution of the
general revenue-sharing fund is according to percentages that were fixed in place by a
27



1988 law while many of the specific programs, although distributed automatically, are
earmarked legally for uses such as housing or home mortgages (FONAVI -- $900
million) or providing electricity service to remote rural areas (FEDEI). There are a
number of discretionary transfers (ATNs -- $538 million) as well as some specific social
sector assistance programs and investment programs. Some of these programs follow
fairly reasonable need-based criteria while others do not.
98.   The final result is a large diversity in the level of shared revenues per capita-a
five-fold difference in revenues per capita for the highest and lowest provinces. This
dispersion is difficult to justify in terms of needs and/or cost differentials. Changes to the
system, however, have been hard to realize even though there is wide-spread awareness
of its inadequacy. The 1994 Constitutional Reform called on Congress to enact a new
coparticipation law by the end of 1996. Congress later extended this deadline by two
years, and this deadline will probably have to be extended again.
99.   A consensus view has emerged from a series of Bank analytical reports, academic
papers, and recent government proposals for reform. The three problems to be addressed
by any reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations are: (1) simplify the complicated tax-
sharing/revenue-sharing system, consolidating programs into one fund, to improve
transparency; (2) introduce a rational formula-almost any rational formula-for
distributing resources across provinces; and (3) increase the degree of correspondence
between the provincial tax payer and the provincial services he/she receives. The latter
would involve some form of decentralization of tax powers, either through more
provincially administered taxes or provincial surcharges on federally collected taxes.
100.  The government has advanced in its technical proposal for reform based on
principles agreed with the Bank. The proposal includes: (I) putting all federally collected
taxes into a single revenue-sharing pool, including payroll contributions for the social
security system (with the minor exceptions of trade taxes and a few specialized charges);
(2) separating out sector programs and eliminate their automatic financing, making them
discretionary line items in the federal budget, in order to give more flexibility to the
federal budget; and (3) distributing funds on the basis of a formula which includes a
"derivation/devolution" component plus compensation for poor provinces, and smooths
the application to the new system (for those provinces with smaller shares in the future).
101.  The government expects to be ready in several months with the details of its
proposal, which will be reviewed with the Bank as a condition of second tranche, and to
initiate a serious round of discussions with the provincial governments. The success of
these negotiations are predicated on guaranteeing that no province will lose in terms of
revenues on the short run. As a first step, therefore, the government will have to agree
with each of the provinces on the baseline figure. Based on past experience-in 1988
when the last revision to the system was made-negotiations will be difficult and there is
no guarantee of successful buy-in by the provinces. As a condition of third tranche, the
government will have presented its proposal to all of the provinces and carried out a
meeting of all provinces to adopt the proposal.
28



102.  Provincial Tax Reform. An additional, long-standing problem in Argentina has
been the search for a substitute for the distortionary provincial gross receipts (turnover)
tax. This tax is multi-stage sales tax that accumulates across the stages of production,
since, unlike the value-added tax, there is no crediting for tax paid on the purchase of
inputs. Several years ago, as part of the federal fiscal pact, the provinces agreed to begin
to grant exemptions to primary stages of production on this tax, as part of a process of
eventually reaching a provincial retail sales tax. The final form of the retail sales tax
never emerged, and this area of tax reform has been stalled for the last two years.
103. Progress has been made, with Bank technical assistance, in exploring the
possibility of a provincial VAT surcharge as a substitute for the gross receipts tax. This
provincial VAT also could be used as an instrument for further tax decentralization
whereby the federal government would make tax room by reducing its VAT rate and
allowing the provinces to increase their rate (if they wish) in exchange for reduced shares
of coparticipation. The longer-term objective is to establish fiscally strong provinces -
provinces with the capacity to raise a high share of their revenues on their own and set
their own tax rates. At the same time, the system of intergovernmental relations would
assure that transfers compensate provinces with less innate capacity to raise revenues due
to poorer tax bases. Any new provincial tax instruments must be designed so as to avoid
distortions in the location of economic activity and avoid the possibility of a province's
residents "exporting" their tax burden to residents of other jurisdictions. The government
is committed to completing the preparation of the detailed proposals, to be reviewed with
the Bank as a condition of second tranche, on the elimination of the gross receipts tax and
on tax decentralization and engaging the provincial governments on their adoption and to
make satisfactory progress in reaching agreement with the provinces, as a condition of
third tranche.
104.  Governance and Public Ethics. The first generation of reforms already taken in
Argentina have drastically changed the role and responsibilities of the state. Among the
most important achievements was the privatization of major part of the economy. Not
only did this open new opportunities for investment, productivity improvement and the
infusion of new technology and management, privatization has basically eliminated the
potential for unethical and corrupt dealings by public officials in these enterprises. The
other change has been the deregulation of the economy. With the elimination of controls
over imports, foreign currency and many other areas of economic activity, the scope for
unethical behavior by government officials has been severely curtailed. In addition,
internal control and external auditing agencies have been restructured, with the support of
the Bank, and there is generally much more information on government programs made
available to the public, especially with the use of Internet.
105.  Despite these reforms, more needs to be done to restore confidence in public
agencies and to promote integrity as a positive attribute of the public administration. In a
series of actions since the 1994 constitutional amendment, culminating in the creation of
the National Office of Public Ethics, the government has declared its intention to fight
corruption. Integrity actions such as the establishment of an ethic office, however, can be
ineffective if they are not set in the context of broader public sector reform and
improvements to the judicial system. To that end, the government has asked the Bank's
29



support to build the capacity of the National Public Ethics Office, with an Institutional
Development Grant, and to modernize the judicial system. A Model Court Development
loan (LIL) has already been approved and further support for the judicial system is under
preparation. In addition, the Bank and government have agreed to undertake jointly a
study on governance and integrity in Argentina and develop a common strategy.
30



4. THE PROPOSED LOANS
106.  The proposed special assistance to Argentina will help to preserve the
achievements of the reforms undertaken by President Menem's administration since
1989. It complements the preventive measures already taken by the government over the
past year to ward off the contagion effects of the East Asian crisis. Most importantly. the.
proposed support helps to carry the government's reform agenda forward to a next stage
by supporting measures to improve social protection and the quality of social services,
strengthen the financial sector, improve effectiveness of the regulatory framework and
restructure and refocus federal-provincial fiscal relations. Underlying all of these
measures is the need for Argentina to incorporate equity and poverty considerations into
a consistent set of public policies and programs.
A. RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
107.  The Bank's special structural adjustment support aims to help Argentina to reduce
its vulnerability to external financial shocks at the same time as increasing its capacity for
sustainable and equitable growth. Specifically, the proposed operations are intended to:
(i) facilitate the reentry of Argentina to the international capital markets and avoid the
great social and economic costs, as experienced during the Tequila crisis, associated with
the alternative of drastically contracting expenditures and depleting reserves in order to
meet the country's financial commitments while countries, such as Argentina, are shut
out from the international capital market; (ii) protect vulnerable groups during this
present period of high uncertainty; (iii) add to the lines of defense of the banking system
in order to deter and, if need be, withstand liquidity shocks; and (iv) continue Argentina's
successful reform program, particularl) with a focus on the long-term issues of savings
and capital market development, efficiency in the financial sector, and public policies
with respect to regulation, tax and fiscal equity, the efficiency of social spending and
quality investment in human capital.
108.  The proposed support for Argentina meets the criteria set out for special structural
adjustment lending (see R98-249, dated October 2, 1998). First, in terms of the
structural dimensions, Argentina still has a high dependence on external financing which
has come into relief now that the international capital markets suddenly have closed to
emerging markets. Argentina's reliance on external financing is historic and the result of
decades of high inflation--and bouts of hyper-inflation-- which have eroded confidence in
financial institutions and demonetized the economy. With macro-stability achieved, that
confidence is being restored; however, M2 still only accounts for 25 percent of GDP and
capital market development has lagged. In addition, for decades, the predominant model
of economic development was a closed and protected one based on import-substitution.
The economy has since been liberalized and protection lowered. Discriminatory taxes on
31



exports have been removed and exports have been growing rapidly, from 6.3 percent in
1993 to 9 percent of GDP in 1997. Nevertheless, exports remain a small percentage of
the total economy. In addition, the public sector has not yet been able to sustain a fiscal
surplus and continued efforts are needed to increase public savings. But, not only is it
important to increase public savings, adjustments to public spending and the distribution
of public resources must be done in such a way as to promote social equity, quality and
efficiency. This is particularly true in the area of social services where much still needs
to be done. Finally, reducing the country's vulnerability is critically dependent on
improving productivity and efficiency especially in the key infrastructure services that
contribute to export expansion. Now that these services have been privatized, sound
regulatory performance is critical.
109.  To address structural challenges facing Argentina, these loans incorporate the
following: (a) measures to reduce poverty and unemployment, both by protecting key
social safety net programs, and advancing reforms in health and education; (b) provinces
are key actors in the provision of social services, and this loan promotes the
rationalization of intergovernmental fiscal relations, as well as provincial tax reform; (c)
further reforms in the regulatory area are recommended, following massive privatization
of public enterprises in transportation, electricity, telecommunications, and in the
financial sector; (d) strengthening the banking sector, improving access of small and
medium enterprises to credit, and deepening the capital markets are priorities, particularly
in view of the country's variable access to international credit, and the self imposed
discipline of the convertibility law; and (e) support of the repo facility is a key
instrument for reducing Argentina's vulnerability to external shocks.
110.  Argentina also satisfies the second main criteria for special structural adjustment
support, a strong policy program, as demonstrated by its track record and its intended
reform measures. Argentina achieved macro-stability with the introduction of the
convertibility plan in 1991 and since then has maintained a sound macro-economic
framework. Moreover, its current record in satisfying the conditions of Bank adjustment
loans has been excellent. The Bank has extended US$ 3.8 billion in nine such operations
since 1990.3 Completed adjustment operations-- Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL, Ln.
3394-AR), Public Enterprise Reform I and II (Loans 3291-AR and 6012-AR), the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (In. 3558-AR), the Provincial Pension Reform Loan
(Ln. 4116-AR) and the Provincial Reform Loan I (Ln. 3836-AR)--met all major
objectives in a timely manner. The Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878-AR)
and the Banking Sector Reform Loan (Ln. 3926-AR) are both fully disbursed
(completion report pending). The Second Provincial Reform Loans (Loans 4218, 4219,
4220, 4221-AR) and Health Insurance I Loans (Ln.4002/4003-AR) are still under
implementation and are being implemented satisfactorily. In addition, the proposed
program, as set out in the government's letter of development policy, provides the
content of the continuing reform program and specifies the measures that the government
intends to take to address some of the remaining key structural issues.
3 Not including a free-standing FY93 Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan, Ln. 3556-AR.
32



111.  The other criteria are met. The proposed program is part of a concerted
international support package which includes the Inter-American Development Bank as
well as the International Monetary Fund. All three institutions have made available
similar amounts of financing. Additional financing may be forthcoming from bilateral
sources. An important feature of the overall program is the support from the private
sector through the Central Bank's Repurchase Facility. This facility provides $ 6.7
billion in private financing from the international banks to support Argentina's banking
system in the event of a liquidity crisis. In terms of the country 's external financing plan,
that plan is sustainable over the medium term, as Argentina's external public debt
amounts to only 30 percent of GDP, with short term debt alone to only I percent of GDP
and debt service within acceptable limits. The proposed support from the Bank for
Argentina, an IBRD eligible borrower, also falls within creditworthiness and exposure
limits. It is evident, however, that a worsening of the global financial crisis facing
emerging markets and a further protraction in the reopening of capital markets - beyond
what is presently anticipated-would call for a reassessment of Argentina's financing
plan and the contribution of multilateral institutions, particularly the IMF.
112.  At the end of FY98, IBRD debt outstanding and disbursed to Argentina amounted
to $5.5 billion, equivalent to 5.1 percent of total IBRD debt outstanding and disbursed.
In FY99, net disbursements are projected to total $2.4 billion, bringing IBRD's total debt
outstanding and disbursed to Argentina up to $7.9 billion or 6.5 percent of total IBRD
debt outstanding and disbursed. These aggregates reflect planned commitments of $3.4
billion, including $3 billion of adjustment lending, and gross disbursements of $2.8
billion, including $2.5 billion in adjustment lending. The net disbursements exceed the
ranges envisaged in the March 17, 1998 CAS Progress Report by roughly $2 billion for
FY99 and $1.6 billion for FY00. Based on current projections, net disbursements to
Argentina in FY99 will account for around 20 percent of total IBRD net disbursements,
which are now projected at close to $13 billion. This high share of net disbursements to
Argentina in total net disbursements reflects the large volume of planned adjustment
lending. Commitments to Argentina for FY99 are projected to account for around 10
percent of total IBRD commitments, which are currently projected at $32 billion. These
amounts are consistent with IBRD's aggregate financial capacity.4
B. TERMS AND CONDITIONS
113.  Loan Amounts. The SSAL would be a three-tranche loan of US$2.52525 billion.
The first tranche of $1.02525 billion (including the capitalized front-end charge) would
be made available upon effectiveness, anticipated for November 1998. The second
tranche for $1.0 billion would be anticipated for March 1999, and the third tranche of
$500 million, no sooner than July 1999. The closing date of the loan would be December
31, 1999.
114.  To support the repo facility, a contingent loan of US$505.05 million would be
made to the borrower Argentine Republic, with the proceeds made available by the
4 Programmatic and Emergency Adjustment Lending: World Bank Guidelines, R98-249, October 2, 1998
33



borrower to the Central Bank. It would be drawn only if and when the repurchase facility
is triggered, and would be deposited in a special account at the Central Bank to be used
only by the Central Bank to meet margin calls or repurchases from repo buyers (or to
invest in highly liquid securities during periods when margin calls are not necessary, with
proceeds to be redeposited in the special account). If the margins move favorably, the
reflows would replenish the special account. If the repo facility is not used, the loan
would not be drawn and could be cancelled upon request by the Borrower. Given the
contingent nature of the loan, and the need to be able to provide the enhancement in a
very short time frame once the margin calls are made, the disbursement of the Repo
Facility Support loan would not depend on satisfactory progress in the program supported
by the SSAL, once the repo has been made effective. However, effectiveness conditions
include effectiveness of the SSAL, satisfactory progress in carrying out the adjustment
operation, and a macroeconomic policy framework that is consistent with the objectives
of the adjustment operation. Thus, the Repo Facility Support Loan is structured as the
equivalent of part of the first tranche of the SSAL, supported by the same program
conditionality as the SSAL, and potentially disbursable at any time after June 30, 1999 as
long as the SSAL first tranche has been released. As an ingredient essential to the
intended support of the repo facility, the availability of such disbursement of the Repo
Facility Support Loan is virtually irrevocable once the Repo Facility Support Loan
becomes effective (except for the potential impact of standard Bank remedies set forth in
the Bank's General Conditions). The closing date of the loan would be September 15,
2003.
115.  Terms and Conditions. Consistent with the exceptional circumstances facing the
country, the proposed SSAL and Repo Facility Support Loan would be priced according
to the special terms agreed by the Board (see report R98.249, dated October 2, 1998,
discussed October 22, 1998). Thus the two loans would have five-year maturity,
including three years of grace, and interest rate of LIBOR plus 400 basis points.
Commitment and other standards fees would apply without waivers. At the request of the
government, and consistent with the country's external debt management policy, the
proposed loans would be LIBOR-based Single Currency Loans (SCL) in US dollars.
116.  Disbursement and Procurement. Loan disbursements would be made under
simplified SAL/SECAL disbursements. For the SSAL, proceeds will be disbursed
against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including compliance
with stipulated tranche release conditions. In the case of the contingent loan to support
the repo facility, proceeds would be disbursed only if the repo facility is activated and if
the SSAL is effective. Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and
supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not required. If after deposit is made
in the Deposit Account the proceeds of the loan and any part thereof is used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the borrower to either
(a) return the amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund
the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan. Tranche release review and program supervision will
ensure that the program supported by the SSAL is carried out as agreed. Additionally,
the status of the repo facility would be reviewed periodically.
34



117.  Accounts and Audit. The Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services
(MEyOSP), on behalf of the Government, will maintain the accounts for the Special
Structural Adjustment Loan, and the Central Bank of Argentina for the contingent
Special Repurchase Facility Support Loan, in accordance with sound accounting
practices. The Bank reserves the option to audit the special deposit account established
for the Special Structural Adjustment Loan, consistent with normal structural adjustment
operation rules. Upon the Bank's request, the Argentine Republic will audit the deposit
account established for the Special Repurchase Facility Support Loan, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
Bank has already undertaken a review of the auditing practices and standards of the
government's independent audit agency (AGN) and finds that these are acceptable to the
Bank and conform to international practices and norms for public auditing. In addition,
the Bank is about to embark on a review of the government's internal financial
management systems, including the adequacy of internal controls. These systems were
last revised in 1992 with Bank assistance.
118.  Monitoring Arrangement. The Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services
(MEyOSP) and the Chief of Cabinet's Office will be responsible for monitoring progress.
119.  Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "U" and will not require an environmental
assessment.
C. BENEFITS AND RiSKS
120.  Benefits. Long-run benefits of the structural reforms supported by the operation
are anticipated economy-wide. Reforms in the federal-provincial fiscal relations, in
particular, are expected to engender greater regional equity and efficiency in the
allocation of fiscal resources and ultimately stimulate improved revenue mobilization
thorough devolution to the provinces. A stronger financial sector, with appropriate
prudential and regulatory frameworks, is expected; this would, along with development
of the capital markets, serve to stimulate private savings and provide greater access by
small and medium scale enterprises to credit and alternative financial instruments. This
should be a stimulus to employment creation and exports. The specific regulatory
reforms to be undertaken under the program are aimed at promoting efficiency in the
provision of infrastructure services and to address equity considerations among
consumers and providers/owners. Finally, the reforms included in the program in the
area of social protection, education and health are expected to advance the ability of
policy makers to design and implement poverty focused programs, stimulate greater
equity in the access to social programs, and improve the quality and efficiency of those
programs as part of a broadly focused agenda to reduce poverty and invest in human
capital.
121.  On the short run, the program is expected to facilitate Argentina's reentry to the
international capital markets and help avoid a sharp economic downturn, which in the
case of the last financial crisis in 1995 resulted in a decline in GDP of 4 percent and a
35



sharp increase in unemployment to 18.4 percent. With unemployment still over 13
percent, many Argentines, especially those with less marketable skills, have not yet
recovered from that crisis. In particular, the proposed operation will benefit vulnerable
groups whose access to the social programs would be safeguarded under the program.
122.  Adding to the lines of defense in the banking system is of paramount importance.
The lessons of the Tequila crisis in 1995 and the present situation in East Asia
demonstrate that actions need to be taken to reduce stress in the banking system.
Preventive actions are especially advisable in the case of Argentina due to the currency
board arrangement, and its implication that foreign reserve losses translate directly into a
liquidity shortage in the banking system. Thus, the specific benefits of the contingent
loan to support the Central Bank's repo facility are two fold. In the first instance, the
enhancement to the facility is expected to reduce in the probability of default, thus
making the facility more attractive to international banks. This would , in turn, increase
the probability of maintaining the size of the facility in relation to the deposit base. In the
second instance, that of a liquidity shock and the activation of the repurchase facility by
the Central Bank, the benefit would be mitigating the impact of a severe liquidity
shortage. Liquidity is critical to preserve reforms in banking sector and assure access to
credit of SMEs and other borrowers in time of a systemic credit crunch. SMEs, as major
generators of employment, are usually disproportionately affected by credit restrictions.
As a contingent loan with the goal of preventing a crisis, it would only be disbursed if the
Central Bank exercises its option with the private banks. The Central Bank does not
expect that this will be the case as the total coverage that the system has through other
means which would precede the activation of the repo facility are equivalent to 30
percent of deposits.
123.  Risks. If access to international capital markets is not restored by mid-1999, the
financial package currently assembled might not be sufficient to meet external needs,
resulting in a severe economic adjustment. This could put pressure on resources
available for social safety nets and cause the poor and disadvantaged to suffer even more.
Moreover, this could result in countries such as Argentina having to take additional
measure to alleviate their respective debt servicing burdens. An additional risk is that the
reform process could be delayed by the upcoming national elections. While this risk has
to be acknowledged, experience during the 1994-1995 financial crisis, which also
coincided with presidential elections, was to the contrary and the reform process actually
accelerated. A third risk is that access to international financial markets is regained soon,
the impetus for reform wanes. Given the advanced state of many of the reforms, and the
outstanding commitment by the government in several areas, mostly notably changing to
federal-provincial revenue sharing, the prospects for continuing the program remain high.
A fourth risk is that the current international and Argentine economic scenario
deteriorates faster than anticipated, resulting in capital outflows that weaken the banking
system. The support for the repo facility is intended to alleviate such pressures.
Nevertheless, the risks of the crisis worsening and the impact on the Argentina economy
being much more severe than anticipated are significant. That makes the preventive
measures supported under the two operations even more critical.
36



5. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
124.  The last progress report on the FY97-00 CAS was discussed by the Board on
March 17, 1998. At that time, Argentina was weathering the initial effects of the Asia
crisis, but there was a clear need to continue to monitor the situation. In particular, we
noted the increased risk associated with Argentina's ability to access international
financial markets to roll over its debt and to finance the fiscal deficit. We indicated that
we would work with the Government in identifying measure to help mitigate the spillover
effects were the crisis to persist and deepen.
125.  The proposed package of emergency support is consistent with that strategy and
reflects the nature of the crisis facing Argentina. An update on the country assistance
strategy, which accompanies this report, provides additional detail on the impact that
such emergency assistance has on the Bank's program and IFC's activities in the country.
126.  Collaboration with the IDB. In recognition of the critical situation facing many
countries in the Latin America and Caribbean Region, the IDB and the Bank have been
collaborating in order to a joint response to borrower requests for special support. In the
case of Argentina, the two proposed loans have been closely coordinated with the IDB
during identification and preparation. Both institutions conducted joint identification
missions, and a continuous dialogue was established during their preparation and
negotiations.
127.  Collaboration with the IMF. The IMF has an Extended Fund Facility with
Argentina for $2.8 billion. This facility is part of a continuing effort by the Fund to
mitigate the impact of external crises. In entering into this program in February 1998, the
Government's intention-and message to the markets-was that the program was
precautionary and it would be drawn down only if the country was in crisis. This facility,
therefore, is regarded as an integral part of the current special multilateral support to
Argentina. As of this point, the program is on track. The Fund's next review is
scheduled for early December, at which point the country's situation and financing
requirements for 1999 will be reassessed. Close coordination between the IMF and the
Bank took place in the development and review of that program and has continued in the
preparation of the proposed loans. This has been the case throughout the series of Fund
and Bank adjustment programs with Argentina in recent years. Frequent consultations on
economic conditions and prospects took place during the preparation of these loans.
37



6. RECOMMENDATION
128.  I am satisfied that the proposed loans comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve them.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
November 3, 1998
38



ARGENTINA: Special Structural Adjustment Loan                                                           Annex A: Social Indicators
and Special Repurchase Support Loan                                                                                of Development
Argentina Social Indicators
Latest single year               Same regiontincome group
Latin America &  Upper-middle-
1970-75      1980-85       1990-96          Caribbean         income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)            26.0          30.3          35.2               485.8          473.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                  1.7           1.5           1.3                 1.7           1.5
Urban population (% of population)               80.7          84.8          88.4               73.7           73.0
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           3.2           3.1           2.7                 2.7            2.6
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                                         ..          25.5
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                            2,680         2,660         8,380              3,710          4,600
Consumer price index (1987=100)                     0            23      1,376,469               631            506
Food price index (1987=100)                        ..            22     1,201,924
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                   4.4            ..
Highest quintile                                 50.3            ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                              ..           4.3                3.0            3.4
Education (% of GNP)                                          1.5           3.8                3.9            5.0
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                        5.8           4.8
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                            96                           ..                91             91
Male
Female
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                            66            55           64                  73             76
Urban                                          76           63            73                  84             87
Rural                                          26            17           17                  43             42
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                        67           76                  84             84
DPT                                                            63           82                  86             88
Child malnutrtion (% under 5 years)                              ..             2
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            67            68           73                  70             70
Male                                           64           65            69                  66             66
Female                                         71           72            77                  73             73
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                48            29            22                 33             30
Under 5 (per thousand live births)               71            38           25                  41             36
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                   212           205          176                 182            181
Female (per 1,000 population)                 116           102           84                 114            107
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                ..            85           100
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex B: Key Economic Indicators
Page 1 of 3
Argentina - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                   100.0   10(.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture'                             6.7      6.4      7.0      6.9      7.0      7.7      7.6      7.6      7.5
Industry'                               32.6    32.3    32.1       32.1     32.1     35.5     35.2     35.0     34.7
Services'                               51.2    51.6    51.3       51.4    51.4    47.1       47.5     47.6     48.0
Total Consumption                        83.6    82.4      81.6    81.9    81.6    80.9        81.2    79.7      78.7
Gross domestic fixed                      18.2    19.9    18.3    18.5    20.1        21.6    21.1      22.5     23.3
investment
Government investment                    1.5      1.4      1.1      1.2      1.2      0.8      0.9      1.1      1.2
Private investment                      16.8     18.5     17.2     17.3     18.9    20.8      20.2     21.4    22.1
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                           6.3      0.8      8.5      8.9      9.0      8.7      8.8      9.2      9.7
Imports (GNFS)                            8.1      (.1      8.5      9.2     10.7     11,2     11.1     11.5     11.7
Gross domestic savings                    16.4    17.6    18.4    18.1       18.4    19.1      18.8    20.3    21.3
Gross national savings'                    ..    16.4      16.9    16.5      16.6    17.1      16.8     18.2      19.0
Alemorandum items
Gross domestic product               257.841  281.925  281,060  298.734  325,012  345.016  356,492  378,122  402,983
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per              7,260    8.140    8.050    8.370    8,770    9,520    9,680   10,110   10,630
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1986
prices)
Gross domestic product at              5.7%     8.0%    -4.0%     4.8%     8.6%     5.0%     2.0%     4.5%     5.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                  6.3%     8.4%    -3.8%     5.8%     9.0%     4.4%     2.1%     4.7%     5.1%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%. calculated
from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at              4.4%     6.7%    -5.1%     3.8%     6.3%     3.8%     0.8%     3.3%     3.8%
market prices
Total consumption                         ..   8.5%    -9.9%      6.1%    10.2%     3.2%     1.1%     1.6%     2.4%
Private consumption                       ..   8.8%   -10.2%      6.4%    10.5%     3.2%     1.2%     1.5%     2.4%
(Continued)



Annex B: Key Economic Indicators
Page 2 of 3
Argentina - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b                       15.572   18.437   23,824   27,037   29.318   29,968   31,337   34,963   39,002
Merchandise FOB                    13.269   16.023   21.162   24.043   26,217   26.489   27,649   30,827   34,202
Imports (GNFS)b                     20.728   25.616   23,808   27.910   34.899   38.541   39,607   43,322   47,193
Merchandise FOB                    15.632   20.162   18.804   22,282   28,489   31.583   32,436   35,633   38,933
Resource balance                     (5,156)  (7.179)     16    (873)  (5.581)  (8,573)  (8.271)  (8,359)  (8,192)
Netcurrenttransfers                    411      320     432      334      517      350     350      350      360
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance             (7.672) (10.117)  (2.768)  (3.787) (11,459) (15,290) (15.251) (16,181) (17,205)
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct            2.515    3.117    4.783    5,090    5,895    5,644    4,000    6,184    6,200
investment
Long-term loans (net)                16,971   12.803   19.156   18.960   13.236   11,145    7,669   11,643   12,896
Official                            2.667    1.497    2.466    1.449     758    2,214    4,026    2,629    2,497
Private                            14.304   11.306   16.690   17.511   12,478    8,931    3,643    9,014   10,398
Other capital (net, including       (7.334)  (5,242) (21.234) (16.487)  (4,610)   (134)   1,662    2,326    2,146
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                  (4.480)   (561)     63   (3.776)  (3,062)  (1,364)   1,920   (3,972)  (4,037)
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                 -2.0%    -2.5%    0.0%    -0.3%    -1.7%    -2.5%    -2.3%    -2.2%    -2.0%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1986 prices)
Merchandise exports                    7.9%    15.7%    27.1%    7.2%    7.0%     6.6%     2.0%     8.0%    8.6%
(FOB)
Primary                              -1.2%o    7.4%    27.1%    7.2%    7.0%    12.0%     3.0%     9.0%    13.0%
Manufactures                         12.7%    16.7%    27.1%    7.2%    7.0%     2.0%     1.0%     7.1%    4.2%
Merchandise imports                   12.3%    25.0%   -11.6%    6.1%    37.0%    12.0%    1.0%     6.8%    6.4%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                       17.4    16.9    17.5    15.4    16.6    17.0    17.1    17.3    17.5
Current expenditures                   15.6    16.2    17.3    16.2    16.9    17.5    17.7    17.6    17.6
(Continued)



Annex B: Key Economic Indicators
Page 3 of 3
Argentina - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estimate               Projected
Indicator                1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001
Current account surplus (+)                1.8      0.7      0.2     -0.8      -0.4     -0.5     -0.6     -0.3      -0.1
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                        1.0      1.0      1.1      1.2       1.2      0.8      0.9      1.1       1.2
Foreign financing                          0.2      0.5      0.8      2.4      3.4       2.2      2.2      1.2       0.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                 17.6     19.0     18.5     20.7     24.6      25.0     25.0     25.0      25.0
prices)
Growth ofM2 (%)                          46.5      17.6     -2.8     18.8     29.3       8.1      3.3      6.1       6.6
Private sector credit growth!            127.4     71.2    268.8     13.8     88.8      66.4     99.5     99.5      99.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1986 =100)
Merchandise export price                 113.2    118.2    123.1    128.6    127.8    127.1    130.1    134.3    137.2
index
Merchandise import price                 112.0    115.3    121.5    126.3    126.3    125.0    127.0    130.7    134.2
index
Merchandise terms of trade               101.0    102.5    101.3    101.8    101.2    101.7    102.4    102.8    102.2
index
Real exchange rate                       48.9      49.1     48.2     48.2     48.2      48.2     48.2     48.7     49.3
(US$/LCU)l
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                    10.6%     4.2%     3.4%     0.2%      0.5%     1.5%     1.2%      1.5%     1.5%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                             7.5%     1.2%     3.9%      1.5%     0.2%     1.1%     1.3%      1.5%     1.5%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost. a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f "LCU" denotes "local currenc) units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex C:
Argentina: Emergency
Structural Adjustment Loan
Annex C:
External Financing Requirement and Projected Sources of Financing
(in mnillions of U.S. dollars)
Category                               1998-4"' Quarter        1999  1998-V + 1999
Financing requirements:
1. Current Account Deficit                      3,250      15,251          18,501
2. Long term external debt amortizationsa       3.600       13,553         17,153
a. Public and Publicly guaranteed            2,100       7,580           9,680
b. Private                                   1,500       5,973           7,473
3. Change in gross reserves (- decline)        -1,000          67            -930
4. Gross Financing Requirements                 5,850      28,871          34,724
(I +2+3)
Sources of Financing
5. Private investment flows (net)                 500       5,000           5,500
6. Multilateral and Bilateral Gross             4,000       8,500          12,500
Disbursementsb
o/w World Bank                               1,250       2,685           3,935
7. Additional private debt flows                1,350      15,371          16,724
8. Total Sources of Financing                   5,850      28,871          34,724
(5 + 6 + 7)
a. In addition, there is an estimated US$17,988 million (DECDG) to 31,000 million (B.l.S) in short-term
external debt, which must be rolled over in 1998 and 1999. Of this amount, an estimated 10,000 million is
in the form of trade credits.
b. Includes IMF.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 1 1/02/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
Operations Portfolio
Differerice
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                 and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 55
Active Projects
AR-PE-6058      1999   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            SOC.PROTECT 4              90.75        0.00            0.00         90.75     0.00        0.00
AR-PE-49269    1998   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                SOC PROTEC 3              284.00        0.00            0.00        284.00     0.00        0.00
AR-PE-50713    1998   MINISTRY OF ECONOMY               MODEL COURT DEV.            5.00        0.00            0.00          5.00       .60       0.00
AR-PE-50714    1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             SECOND.ED 3               119.00        0.00            0.00        119.00    77.85        0.00
AR-PE-51693    1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(SALTA)               75.00        0.00            0.00         30.00     0.00        0.00
AR-PE-51694    1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(S.JUAN)              50.00        0.00            0.00         40.00    25.00        0.00
AR-PE-51695    1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(R.NEGRO)             75.00        0.00            0.00         50.00    25.00        0.00
AR-PE-52590    1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             NAT HWY REHAB6MAINT       450.00        0.00            0.00        450.00   198.66        0.00
AR-PE-55477     1998   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                MINING TA                  39.50        0.00            0.00         39.50    11.10        0.00
AR-PE-55935    1998   GOVERNMENT                        EL NINO EMERGENCY          42.00        0.00            0.00         42.00    12.00        0.00
AR-PE-6006      1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                  P.RFM(TUCUMAN)            100.00        0.00            0.00         45.00     0.00        0.00
AR-PE-6041      1998   GOVERNMENT                       SMALL FARMER DV.           75.00        0.00            0.00         75 .00    14.12       9.00
AR-PE-6050      1998   REP OF ARGENTINA                 POLLUTION MGT.             18.00        0.00            0.00         18.00       .86       0.00
AR-PE-39584    1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 B.A.URB.TSP               200.00        0.00            0.00        177.66    17. 67       0.00
AR-PE-40808    1997   GOA                               N.FOREST/PROTC             19.50        0.00            0.00         18.13     -.77        0.00
AR-PE-43418    1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG                  AIDS PREV.6STD CTRL         15.00        0.00            0.00         10.94     -.32        0.00
AR-PE-46821     1997   GOVT.OF ARG                      PENSION TA                 20.00        0.00            0.00         15.37     2.74        0.00
AR-PE-49268    1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                SOC.PROTECT.2             200.00        0.00            0.00         22.89   -52.11        0.00
AR-PE-5980      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                PROV ROADS                300.00        0.00            0.00        296.94    51.93        0.00
AR-PE-6010      1997   GOA                              PROV AG DEVT I            125.00        0.00            0.00        122.15     6.85        0.00
AR-PE-6052      1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                FLOOD PROTECTION          200.00        0.00            0.00        196.26    14.28        0.00
AR-PE-6059      1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               MTL.CHD.HTH.2             100.00        0.00            0.00         93.51     3.50        0.00
AR-PE-34091    1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                  HIGHER ED REFORM          165.00        0.00            0.00        127.57    85.58       61.58
AR-PE-37049    1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                 PUB.INV.STRENGTHG          16.00        0.00            0.00         15.32    10.32        0.00
AR-PE-38883    1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA             ENT.EXPORT DV.             38.50        0.00            0.00         18.90    18.89        -.33
AR-PE-40904     1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            BANK REFORM               500.00        0.00            0.00        166.00   166.00        0.00
AR-PE-40909    1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA                 N. INSURANCE REFORM       350.00        0.00            0.00        100.00   125.00        0.00
AR-PE-45687     1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                H.INSURANCE TA             25.00        0.00            0.00          5.52     -.58        0.00
AR-PE-6030      1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA               PROVCL HLTH SCTR          101.40        0.00            0.00         85.33    49.62        0.00
DEV
AR-PE-6040      1996   GOVERNMENT                       FORESTRY/DV                16.00        0.00            0.00         12.43      .74        0.00
AR-PE-6055      1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA               MINING SCTR DEVT           30.00        0.00            0.00          7.48    -1.42        0.00
AR-PE-6057      1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA               SECNDARY ED 2             115.50        0.00            0.00        100.55    46.90      -14.95
AR-PE-5992      1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          SECONDARY ED I            190.00        0.00            0.00        136.29   112.00        0.00
AR-PE-6018      1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               PROV DEVT II              225.00        0.00            0.00        192.56    21.57        0.00
AR-PE-6060      1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                MUNIC DEVT II             210.00        0.00            0.00        162.42  --18.31        0.00
AR-PE-6025      1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          MTNAL CHILD HLTH 6        100.00        0.00            0.00         12.56     6.26        0.00
N
AR-PE-6062      1994   MIN OF ECONOMY                   CAPITAL MKT TA              8.50        0.00            0.00          2.45     2.43        0.00
AR-PE-6003      1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA          RD MAINT & REHAB          340.00        0.00            0. 00        38.90    28.37        0.00
SCT
AR-PE-6036      1993   GOVERNMENT                       YACYRETA II               300.00        0.00            0.00          1.01     1.00        0.00
AR-PE-5977      1991   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               WTR SUPPLY II             100.00        0.00           36.00         19.90    55.91       19.91
AR-PE-6005      1991   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            PROVINC DEV PROJ          200.00        0.00            0.00         12.89    11.87        0.00
AR-PE-5968      1987   SEGBA                            SEGBA V                   276.00        0.00            0.00         55.62    55.61        0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                            Page I



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 11/02/98
Differerce
Between expected
Original Amount in US5 Millions                  and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                  disbursemernts a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Urndisbursed  Oria    Frm Rev'd
Total                                                                            5,909.65         0.00           36.00      3,514.80  1,186.         75.21
'72
Active Proiects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,358.82            7,143.55            9,502.37
of which has been repaid:                228.38            3,237.76            3,466.14
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,645.25            3,909.31            9,554.56
Amount sold                      .                0.00               12.79               12.79
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               12.79               12.79
Total Undisbursed                :            3,514.80                3.49            3,518.29
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                Page 2



MOP Schedule D
Argentina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1960/95/97            Acindar               35.00   16.43   10.00   61.11   10.00   16.43   10.00   11.11
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas            24.23    6.05    6.37   89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37   48.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti            10.00    0.00   10.00   27.27   10.00    0.00   10.00   27.27
1986/89/91/97         Banco Roberts-AL      10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987                  BGN-TBR                 .11    0.00    0.00    0.00    .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89               BGN-Bolland             .13    0.00    0.00    0.00    .13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89/90/96/97      Terminal 6            18.53    0.00    0.00   17.87   17.23    0.00    0.00   16.17
1987/92               BRLP                   7.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/93               Bunge y Born           2.66    0.00    0.00   20.05    2.66    0.00    0.00   20.05
1989                  BGN-Algodonera          .16    0.00    0.00    0.00    .16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Ferrum              .50    0.00    0.00    0.00    .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-FRIGOTOBA          .08    0.00    0.00    0.00    .08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Interpack           .15    0.00    0.00    0.00     .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Parafina            .38    0.00    0.00    0.00     .38    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Willmor             .41    0.00    0.00    0.00    .41    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-COMESI              .09    0.00    0.00    0.00     .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-INTA                .09    0.00    0.00    0.00    .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/96               Banco Frances          4.82    0.00    0.00     .13    4.82    0.00    0.00    .13
1990                 CIP                     0.00    .08    0.00    0.00    0.00     .08    0.00    0.00
1990/94               Petroken              19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65
1991                  BCA                    .39    0.00    0.00      .50    .39    0.00    0.00     .50
1991                  ROB-Longvie            .11    0.00    0.00    0.00    .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  FEPSA                  6.95    0.00    0.00    5.87    6.95    0.00    0.00    5.87
1992                  Oleaginosa Oeste       4.58    0.00    5.00    5.60    4.58    0.00    5.00    5.60
1992                  Rioplatense            5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67
1992                  San Jorge              0.00   27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93/96            Malteria Pampa        11.49    0.00    1.00    9.20   11.49    0.00    1.00    9.20
1992/95               Bridas                32.26    0.00    0.00   51.38   32.26    0.00    0.00   51.38
1993                 Argentina Equity        0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993                 Nuevo Central           5.63    3.00    0.00    8.75    5.63    3.00    0.00    8.75
1993                 Yacylec                 7.15    5.04    0.00   18.96    7.15    5.04    0.00   18.96
1993/94               Molinos                0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00
1994                  AceiteraChabas         0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00
1994                  Aceitera General      12.50    6.90    0.00    0.00   12.50    6.90    0.00    0.00
1994                  BGN                   12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1994                  LBAR                   0.00    1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00
1994                  LBAV                   0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00
1994                 Quilmes                10.28    0.00    0.00    7.50   10.28    0.00    0.00    7.50
1994/95              EDENOR                 14.63    0.00   15.00   23.50   14.63    0.00   15.00   23.50
1994/95/96            Aguas                 66.85    7.00    0.00  198.61   66.85    7.00    0.00  198.61
1994/95/97            La Maxima              0.00   16.49    1.90    0.00    0.00   14.22    1.86    0.00
1995                  Banco Roberts          0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
1995                  CEPA                  10.33    0.00    0.00    1.80   10.33    0.00    0.00    1.80
1995                 Mastellone              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Nahuelsat             25.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  SanCor                17.50    0.00   20.00   21.00   17.50    0.00   20.00   21.00
1995                  Socma                 18.75    0.00    0.00   45.00   18.75    0.00    0.00   45.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 11/02/98



MOP Schedule D
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                  SIDECO                  0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Terminales Port.        8.50    2.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund              0.00   15.73    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.15    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund Mgr          0.00     .14    0.00    0.00    0.00      .06    0.00    0.00
1995/97               Kleppe/Caldero          10.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Banco Galicia          30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1996                  Bansud                 25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.90    0,00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Brahma - ARG            17.79    0.00    0.00   29.70   17.79    0.00    0.00   29.70
1996                  CAPSA                   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00
1996                  Grunbaum                7.00    0.00    2.00    5.00    7.00    0.00    2.00    5.00
1996                  MBA                     0.00     .16    0.00    0.00    0.00      .16    0.00    0.00
1996                  Neuquen Basin           0.00   26.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   21.89    0.00    0.00
1996                  Refisan                20.00    0.00    0.00   27.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   27.00
1996                  Transconor             24.95    0.00   20.00  207.88   24.95    0.00   20.00  207.88
1996                  Zanon                   12.83    0.00    6.00    0.00   12.83    0.00    6.00    0.00
1997                  FRIAR                   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1997                  Guipeba                 15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                  Milkaut                 9.38    0.00   10.00    4.50    9.38    0.00   10.00    4.50
1997                  Suquia                  0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1997                  T61                    10.00    0.00    5.00   30.00   10.00    0.00    5.00   30.00
1997                  Vicentin               25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                  FAID                    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00
1998                  Hospital Privado        9.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Patagonia               5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
1998                  Patagonia Fund          0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  648.97  205.86  163.77  1,172.   575.44  134.06  163.73  1,080.
79                              59
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eqity   Quasi  Partic
1996                  AGUAS III - INC        15.00    0.00    0.00   75.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE               0.00     .40    0.00   65.00
1998                  AUTCL                  12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  F.V. S.A.              12.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1993                  FEPSA (11)              0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1998                  HOSPITAL PRIVADO        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  MERCANTIL ARG.         20.00    0.00   15.00    0.00
1999                  MINETTI-ANDINO         30.00    0.00   14.00   70.00
1998                  SUQUIA CL              30.00    0.00    0.00   50.00
1999                  SUQUIA CL 11            5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  TGN 11 BLINC            0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                  U.BELGRANO             22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         147.00     .40   33.00  274.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 11/02/98



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / PageI
ARGENTINA
Policy Matrix for Actions to be Taken under a SSAL
Special Structural Adjustment Loan
November 1998



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 2
A. REFORM OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL FISCAL RELATIONS
Objectives                 Issues                  Main reforms to date      Second Tranche            Third Tranche
I) Simplification of the    a)Eliminate special  Fiscal "Pacts" I and 11:  Prepare proposal (ante-  -Satisfactory progress on an agreement
system of intergovernmental     funds             - Completed               proyecto) for the         between the federal government and the
transfers: "primary                           decentralization to the   simplification of primary    provinces.
distribution". This system is  b)Eliminate differential   provinces of health services  distribution.
established via the main  incentives for federal    and primary and secondary                       -Formal presentation of Government's
coparticipation Law 23.548    tax administration by    education            -In proposal, at least 70  proposal to all provincial Governors.
and Laws 24.699, 23.906,   establishing that all                           percent of federal-
24.621, 24.065 and      federal taxes enter the   -Implemented a variety of   provincial automatic
modifications.        general revenue-haring   measures to deregulate  transfers would be
pool                  transport, retail and     distributed according to one
professional service sectors  "fund" and one distribution
at the provincial level  rule
II) New formula for    a) Increase             -Began to incorporate     Prepare proposal (ante-   - Satisfactory progress on an agreement
allocating transfers across   Correspondence,     provincial public employee  proyecto) for the creation of between the federal government and the
provinces: "secondary    promoting Constitutional  pension systems into the  a new secondary        provinces.
distribution" - as established  concept of "solidarity" in  reformed national pension   distribution formula.
in Law 23.548, and Laws   the sense that more    system.                                             -Formal presentation of Government's
24.699, 23.906, 24.62 1,   resources remain with the                      -In the proposal:         proposal to all provincial Governors (as
24.065 and modifications.   population            -Federal leadership in   One component of formnula  above).
variety of provincial    is a proxy for
b) Improve Equity, as   structural reforms, via  "derivation/devolution"   -Improve measurement of provincial
promoted in the         provincial reform projects  (which means allocating  own tax bases by the Ministry of
Constitution            and provincial development resources to a jurisdiction    Economy.
projects.                in proportion to the
c) Introduce                                      revenues collected in that
"Equalization" - transfers                       jurisdiction) and another
that compensate                                   compoenet is a new
provinces with lower per                          formula which compensates
capita revenue-raising                            provinces that have lower
capacity                                          per capita tax bases.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 3
Objectives      Issues               Main reforms  Second Tranche                                                   Third Tranche
to date
III) Eliminate   a) Introduce         -Through      Prepare a proposal incorporating the following features.        - Satisfactory progress on
Gross Receipts   residence-based      second fiscal                                                                 an agreement between the
tax and create    taxation to the extent  pact, began to  -A clear definition of tax base and clear administrative guidelines  federal government and the
adequate         possible             eliminate     -New proposed tax should tax consumption or income on a residence    provinces.
substitute                            distortionary   basis, and it should avoid taxing production and the earning of income
b) Maintain fiscal    impact of the   (i.e. origin of income)                                      -Formal presentation of
autonomy            gross receipts  -Any substitute tax on consumption should not have a "cascading"  Government's proposal to
("turnover")   effect - that is, its incidence should not be cumulative across stages of   all provincial Governors (as
c) Establish general,  tax, by     production.                                                     above).
broad-based         exempting      -Any substitute tax on consumption should involve lower
consumption tax     primary stages  administrative costs than the current parallel taxation of sales (e.g. VAT
of production.  along with Gross Receipts)
-Any substitute tax on consumption should induce incentives for
-Second Fiscal automatic compliance by creating an opposition of interests between
Pact          the vendor and purchaser with respect to reporting sales.
eliminated    -New tax proposed should allow provinces to set their own rates
provincial
payroll taxes.  Feasibility study completed to show that new tax could raise at least as
much revenues as current Gross Receipts tax.
IV) Tax      a) Maintain         -Improved      Develop a proposal for the eventual decentralization of at least one  - Satisfactory progress on
Decentralization  residence-based    provincial tax   major federal tax (decentralization could mean provincial surcharge)    an agreement between the
taxation to the extent  administration  and a time-bound plan for its enactment.                   federal government and the
possible            through                                                                        provinces.
federal       -Proposed decentralized tax should be residence based, and it should
b) Improve fiscal   technical      avoid taxing production and the earning of income (i.e. origin of  -Formal presentation of
autonomy via power  assistance     income)                                                         Government's proposal to
to set rates and    programs, e.g.  -Proposed decentralized tax should allow provinces to set their own  all provincial Governors (as
greater own-source    Provincial   rates                                                           above).
revenues            Development
Project, and
others.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 4
B. FINANCIAL SECTOR
Objectives                    Issues                Main reforms to date    Second Tranche                  Third Tranche
I) Harmonization of         Differential tax treatments  Various taxes on transactions  Completion of a  Tax reform project submitted to Congress
Financial Sector Tax        distort financial markets.  (eg. Checks) have been       study by the     resulting in approximate tax neutrality in the
Treatment.                                              reduced or eliminated.       borrower on tax  treatment of financial instruments.
treatment of
Taxes on dividends and      financial
capital gains have been     intermediation
reduced and discriminatory    in Argentina.
treatment of foreign investors
eliminated.
Agreement on terms of
reference for a
comprehensive review of
financial sector taxes.
II) Empower financial sector  Supervisory and regulatory                                              Submit draft law to Congress which provides
regulatory and supervisory    authorities lack adequate                                               protection from personal liability for financial
authorities.                protection from legal actions                                             sector supervisors and regulators for good-
related to the good-faith                                                 faith actions taken in the performance of their
discharge of official duties.                                             official duties.
III) Coordination of Financial  Lack of coordinated sectoral                         Establish        Committee fully operational in accordance to
Sector Regulation and       policies result in arbitrage                             pernanent inter-  its terms of reference. Progress in
Supervision.                opportunities across financial                           agency           implementing the report's recommendations.
instruments. Supervision of                              Committee of
financial markets fragmented,                            financial
not able to address                                      regulatory
conglomerates and                                        agencies under
connnected lending.                                      agreed terms of
reference. Will
review and
report on the
consistency of
current
regulatory
practices.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 5
1.    Banking Sector Reform
Objectives              Issues           Main reforms to date          Second Tranche                    Third Tranche
I) Reduce the size of public   Public sector banks   BANADE closed.     Bringing Banco Hipotecario to   Issuance of a public document
sector involvement in the  are injecting an                            the point of sale by formal    detailing all the explicit and implicit
banking system            unwarranted degree   15 out of 24 provincial  solicitation of bids from the  guarantees the Borrower maintains in
of inefficiency in the  banks privatized or closed.   private sector for at least  support of BNA.
banking system                               controlling share (subject to
Law for the privatization of  normalization of international
Banco Hipotecario passed.   market conditions, defined as the
ability of a Latin American
First ever audit of the Banco  company to undertake an Initial
de la Nacion underway by    Public Offering.)
the Central Bank.                                        Present plan of action on the basis of
Review homogeneity of         that supervisory review.
supervisory rigor of public and
private banks by the Government
and the Central Bank.
11) Increase resilience of  Difficulties in  Substantial consolidation,    Form an interagency committee    Review with the Bank committee's
banking system to external   exiting the banking   privatization, increased entry  to review: (a) bank failure  recommendations, and present an
shocks, and facilitate the exit system have the  of foreign banks, and  resolution processes, including    implementation plan of action on both
of weak banks from the    potential to increase  tightening of regulation and  the relations between  issues.
system                   its systemic risks   supervision.              Superintendency of Banks, the
Central Bank and SEDESA, and
Need to strengthen    Reduction of the number of  (b) regulatory guidelines for
early intervention    banks by one-third to about   proper bank governance, affecting
infrastructure.    110 entities.             owners, management, and outside
directors. The committee should
Need to strengthen   Adopted and implemented   include at least two international
interagency        supervisory strategy      experts in the field and
coordination and   including the institutional    representatives from the
supervision to     development of the        Argentine private banking sector.
address issues of  Superintendency of
bank governance,    Financial Institutions.
connected lending
and financial      Limited private deposit
conglomerates.     insurance scheme
introduced.
Banking regulation has been
enhanced through:



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 6
Banking Sector Reform (cont')
Objectives              Issues            Main reforms to date           Second Tranche                     Third Tranche
--Increased minilnum capital
ratio to 11.5% of risk
weighted assets
--Liquidity requirement
increased to 20% of most
bank liabilities
--Enhanced disclosure on
borrowers, establishing
Central de Deudores
--Introduced a subordinated
debt requirement to banks
Central Bank signed a
contingent repo facility with
international banks equal to
10 percent of deposits.
Enhance the         Privatization of the       Amendment of the provisions
marketability of    administration of residual    governing operations of federal
residual bank       portfolios of newly        public banks to allow the sale of
portfolios to       privatized provincial banks   loan portfolios of liquidated
stimulate future   incorporated in most recent  federal banks in the possession of
privatizations.     privatizations.            federal public banks.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page  7
2. Improving SME Access to Credit
Objectives                  Issues                 Main reforms to date        Second Tranche              Third Tranche
I) Develop a competitive     The current law for                                        Submit the
leasing industry.            leasing, No. 24.441,                                       revised leasing
discourages the growth of                                  law prepared by
lease finance.                                            the Under
Secretary of
Banks and
Insurance to
Congress.
II) Establish a strong legal  Existing laws in the Civil                                Submit a new
framework for the use of     and Commercial Code                                        secured
movable collateral (secured  discourage the use of                                      transactions law
transactions) in credit contracts. movable collateral as the                            to Congress,
primary guarantee in credit                               following Bank
transactions.                                             review.
3.    Capital Markets
Objectives                   Issuess                Main reforms to date        Second Tranche              Third Tranche
I) Deepen capital markets,  Mutual funds are restricted    Laws passed introducing private  Submit an
Diversity financial instruments  to investments in Argentina   pension funds, expanding and  amendment to the
and Improve portfolio       and Mercosur assets, which   encouraging mutual funds and   Fund Law
diversification for mutual  prevents adequate          liberalizing the insurance sector.    (24.083) to
funds                       diversification due to high                                 Congress to
correlation of returns (Law  Law passed to facilitate issuance of remove
24.083)                    corporate bonds, commercial paper  geographic
and convertible debentures.     restrictions on
mutual fund
investments
II) Improve the quality and  Ratings now required but                                                     Present plan (concerning ratings
competitiveness of the rating   rating firms are of mixed                                                 firms-as in tranche 2) and
industry                    quality and current incentive                               Contract a review  satisfactory progress in the
structure discourages                                       of laws and      implementation of such plan, including
objective ratings                                           regulations      passage of resolutions by agencies as
concerning       necessary-SAFJP, CNV, SSN,
ratings firms    Central Bank.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 8
4.    Insurance Sector
Objectives                  Issues                  Main reforms to date       Second Tranche             Third Tranche
Revise legal framework to   Laws 17418 and 20091      State reinsurance company                         Present revised laws to Congress.
allow greater competition and   dealing with the insurance    (INDER) closed.                           Laws should include the following:
to introduce modem          contract and prudential                                                        - adoption of solvency monitoring
supervision and regulation.    regulations respectively are   Caja de Ahorros y Seguros (the                and free-market approach;
outdated.                 largest insurance company)                           - separation of life and non-life
privatized                                           business;
- early-warning tests and
Premium and product controls                         empowerment of SSN to take
substituted with solvency                            remedial actions;
monitoring.                                         - strengthen resolution process;
-establish mechanism to ensure
Prohibition to entry expired.                        proper consumer protection.
Tax on insurance premiums being
reduced progressively.
Standards for managers and owners,
and new regulations on reserve
management to limit risk
investment adopted.
Adoption of an early warning detection
Draft laws modify existing codes                  system in the Superintendency of
17418 and 20091 discussed with the               Insurance (SSN). Passage of necessary
insurance industry.                              resolutions to establish this system,
compliance by firms and integration of
Strengthen preventive       Need to improve collection                                                   early warning system in core
supervision                 and analysis of information                                                  supervision activity.
on insurance firms, so as to
detect potential problems in                                                Satisfactory enforcement of new
a timely manner                                                             capital requirements.
Secure adequate capitalization  Inadequate minimum capital  Res. No. 25.804 passed to increase   Adoption of an
requirement (see SSN      capital requirement form $550,000   action plan by the
Resolution No. 21.523)    to $3 million for existing firms and   SSN to enforce
to $5 million for new life firms and  new capital
up to $10 million for new property  requirements
& casualty firms



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 9
C. Human Development
1. Poverty, Social Protection and Labor
Objectives             Issues                  Main reforms to date           Second Tranche              Third Tranche
Improve the targeting and  Social programs are   Participating in the regional IBRD-IDB              Propose a new poverty line and
efficiency of various  targeted using the   program to improve the collection of basic               methodology for a new NBI index.
social programs designed  NBI index, which is  social statistical information, using LSMS            Establish specific objectives for targeted
to reduce poverty.     an inexact measure of techniques.                                             social programs
poverty; there is no
national poverty line.  Completed first ever survey of consumption
expenditures (Encuesta de Gastos) in 1996
and 1997 and the survey of social indicators
and use of social programs (Encuesta Social)
in 1997.
The SISFAM is       Implemented an information system,
currently being used,  SIEMPRO, to track social programs and
under the norms of    undertook a program of training provincial
SINTyS, to identify   authorities in the use of the system.
beneficiaries and
insure proper       Convened a working group of experts to
targeting in four   review and revise the methodology to
programs.           measure poverty (Index of Unsatisfied Basic
Needs and Poverty Line).
Introduce SISFAM as agreed to improve
Agreed to a plan and budget to extend                    targeting in six additional programs in the
SISFAM to additional poverty targeted                    Secretariat of Social Development, as per
programs.                                                plan.
Improve evaluation of    Social programs are   Completed first budgetary review of social   Merge all  Consolidate existing food/nutrition
programs by            often overlapping and  public spending and complied inventory of   nutrition/food  programs (PRANI, ASOMA, PRO-
institutionalizing public   need improved  social programs.                         programs under    HUERTA, RAF) into a Integrated Food
expenditure reviews.   targeting on the poor.                                       the Secretariat of   Program which will target its services
Completed impact evaluations of         Social           according to:
TRABAJAR, ASOMA, PROMIN, and           Development       *  income level,
FOPAR.                                  under a single   *  health or nutrition indicators
management unit,
TORs agreed for a review of the efficiency   sharing all
and internal management of programs run by  administrative
the Secretariat of Social Development   support services



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 10
Objectives             Issues                  Main reforms to date             Second Tranche                Third Tranche
Ensure minimum safety   Benefits of non-    Pension administration improved, payments   Review the        Propose a new criteria for eligibility
net for the elderly poor    contributory pensions  made in a timely fashion and minimum level  distribution of non-    for non-contributory pensions that
need better targeting   increased to $... per month.         contributory pensions  improves targeting to the poor.
(including pensiones
graciables)
Maintain spending levels  Budget support for    Social spending, particularly for social  Maintain spending  Maintain spending levels for key
in key social programs    targeted programs  security benefits, increased by 20 percent per  levels for key  programs (Table 1) in 1999 Budget
important to the poor  needs to be          capita in real terms since mid-I 980s.  programs (Table I) in  at the level of the total 1998 Budget
maintained against                                           1999 Budget at the   of $680 million for those programs.
further cuts.       Introduced new targeted social protection  level of the total 1998
programs, such as TRABAJAR and FOPAR,  Budget of $ 680
to cope with increased unemployment and    million for those
social needs of the poor.               programs.
Implemented a targeted program of maternal
and child health care, PROMIN, in 15
provinces.
Agreed to a list of key programs for
protection, including those in basic health,
education and employment that focus on the
poor and vulnerable groups ( Annex A)
Improve system of       Present system of   Employer and employee contributions      Complete a study by    Propose legal instrument for the
unemployment insurance  severance payments  (aportes), which add to non-wage labor   an international     replacement of severance payments
and lower non-wage labor and unemployment    costs, reduced in 1996. Proposal in Congress consulting firm of  and introduction of a fully funded
costs.                 insurance leads to    to reduce these contributions further.  various options for a    capitalized unemployment insurance
excessive labor costs,                                       fully capitalized    scheme.
lacks portability, and  New labor law adopted which, among other   unemployment
increases uncertainty. things, lowers severance payments for  insurance scheme,
workers with little tenure; however,    which will eliminate
severance payments remain high for workers  severance payments
with more years of service.             and reduce labor costs,
and could be based on
individual accounts.
Prior review of terms
of reference.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 11
2. Education
Objectives              Issues                 Main reforms to date            Second Tranche                Third Tranche
Improve the equity and    Higher education's   Secondary schools decentralized to the  Formulate a policy
efficiency of the public   share of         provinces                                and strategy plan
education investment    expenditures is high                                         on higher education
in relation to that of  Compulsory education increased from 7 to   financing.
primary and         10 years
secondary education                                         Issue a Secretarial
and there is little  Curricula for primary and secondary    resolution directing
cost recovery at that  education are being modernized       discretional funds
level.                                                      allocated to the
Increased federal funding allocated to  MCyE, to the
upgrade rural schools and to provide texts    introduction of
and pedagogical materials ($ 300 million  incentives for the
between 1995 and 1998)                  establishment of:
*  cost recovery
Increased federal funding to accommodate    for post-
expansion of years of mandatory schooling   graduate and
($ 400 million between 1995 and 1998).      undergraduate
education
Standardized testing, on a sample basis,    programs
introduced along with a network of      *  scholarship
continuous teacher training.                programs based
on merit for
Introduced compensatory program of          students from
scholarships for poor families to retain    low income
disadvantaged students                      families.
The
Passed Federal law on higher education      presentation of
requiring accreditation and allowing        a consolidated
universities to recover costs for post-graduate  budget of each
programs.                                   university,
including all
sources of
revenues.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 12
Education (cont')
Improve the quality of   There is no universal Universal evaluation of fifth year secondary   Universal     Universal evaluation of all third year
higher education         merit system to enter education students introduced in 1997.   evaluation of all    1998/1999 polimodal students, and
the university.                                                1998 fifth year     incorporation of the respective grade in
Quality of freshman                                            secondary           their secondary education certificate in
very low, forcing                                              education students  the second semester of 1999.
universities to
organize a remedial
education cycle



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 13
3. Health
Objectives             Issues              Main reforms to date             Second Tranche                     Third Tranche
Strengthen the      There are insufficient  Initiated implementation of market  The Superintendency of Health  The SHS:
regulatory framework  prudential and      liberalization reforms of the union   System (SHS) has:       *  is applying the prudential and
for Health Insurance   consumer protection   run health plans, Obras Sociales.    *  Implemented prudential and  consumer protection norms in a
norms, and                                               consumer protection norms     satisfactory manner, and
insufficient        Mandated a minimum package of        related to:               *  has issued norms for crisis resolution
information on Obras  health care which must be provided  --beneficiaries' services;   related to the Obras Sociales
available to        by the union-run health plans.       --regulation of medical       (liquidations, mergers, etc)
consumers                                             programs;                    .  publish consumer satisfaction poll.
Extended the period of time when    --regulation of marketing;
employees could change union-run    and
health plans from two months to     --regulation of sanctions
any time during the year.        and penalties;
*  Has issued a public report
Sponsored the restructuring of ...  on the basic characteristics
union-run health plans, covering    and performance of the
workers and their families.        Obras Sociales (to become
an annual publication)
Introduced autonomy in the       *  Conducted consumer
financial and management areas for  satisfaction polls
public hospitals.
Approval by the Superintendency of
Health Services (the Ministry of
Health, or other Ministries where
appropriate) of a specific regulatory
framework incorporating the rights
accorded by the Constitution (art.
42), and those prescribed by the
Consumer Protection Act No.
24.240 and Antitrust Law.
Develop a           Pensioners had       Improved cost effectiveness of    INSSJP will engage consultants  Contracts with the out-sourced health
competitive managed  limited choice of   INSSJP (the government's health    specializing in procurement to   providers to administer services
care market for     providers and INSSJP  program for the retired) by reducing  undertake technical and  (entidades administradoras) have been
providing health care  had to manage a   costs by almost $ 1 billion.      financial evaluation of bids for  signed and are effective.
to pensioners        multitude of                                          the out-sourcing of services to
individual health care                                major health providers and to
provider contracts                                    provide its recommendations to
INSSJP's board.



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 14
Table 1: ARGENTINA SAL
PROTECTED PROGRAMS - 1998 Budget Levels (mil. $)
Food and Nutrition:
PRANI (Prog. Alimentario Nac. Infantil)
ASOMA(Apoyo Solidario a los Mayores)
MATERNO INFANTIL
PROMIN
PROHUERTA
Disease Control:
CONTROL DE ENFERMEDADES CRONICAS
VIGILANCIA Y CONTROL DEL COLERA
PAI (vaccinations)
PROG. DE CHAGAS
LUSIDA (AIDS Control)
EMERGENCIAS SANITARIAS
Emergency Employment:
TRABAJAR II
Education:
PSE (Plan Social Educativo)
BECAS
PRISE (primary education -IDB)
PRODYMES II
Social Fund:
FOPAR
Programs for Vulnerable Groups:
PROG. CONSEJO MENOR Y LA FAMILIA
MENORES EN CIRCUN. DIFICILES
PROG. APOYO A GRUPOS VULNERABLES
PROYECTO JOVEN (capacitacion-IDB))
PROINDER
INAI
MEJORMIENTO DE BARRIOS (IDB)
TOTAL                                    680



ANNEX E: Matrix of Policy Actions / Page 15
D.  REGULATORY REFORMS
Objective         Issue       Main reforms to date                 Second tranche                                 Third tranche
Improving      Rationalization   Deregulation, opening up the trade                         Submit legislation to Congress to harmonize regulatory standards
efficiency of   and             regime, removing barriers to                                of federal electricity, telecommunications, gas, water and
the            harmonization   foreign investment, liberalizing                             transport agencies in order to ensure consistency of (a)
infrastructure  of the          domestic good and capital markets.                          administrative procedures for approval of tariffs, sanctions and
services       regulatory       State monopolies have been                                  fines, collection and use of fees, treatment of non-payment; (b)
entities for     unbundled and privatized, sectors                          economic and technical standards for the analysis of tariff, cost of
greater          restructured and a regulatory                              capital, quality of regulated service and access; (c) consultation
consistency and  framework has been introduced in                           with provinces and consumer groups regarding regulatory
improved         most sectors.                                              decisions; (d) processes for hearing appeals; (e) prompt
performance                                                                 publication of annual audited financial accounts; (f) routine
and efficiency.  In electricity, the sector was                             public disclosure of information (including information on which
vertically disintegrated and 25                            regulatory decisions are made); and (g) hearing and resolving
business units created.                                    consumer complaints.
In telecommunications, the sector                          Prepare a time-bound action plan, consistent with point I above,
was privatized, two monopolies                             to increase the autonomy and independence of these federal
created with an initial exclusivity
arrangement for basic services; this                       regulatory agencies by: (a) establishing rules for the selection of
exclusivity arrangement expires in                         regulators, terms and protection of their tenure, and processes for
1999. Value added and cellular                             removing them for cause; and (b) defining their financing sources
services were immediately opened   Issuance by the         and budgeting procedures and measures to ensure their financial
to competition. A Decree has been  Procurador del Tesoro de  independence.
issued to phase in full         la Naci6n of an opinion
liberalization and a new        on the appropriate legal    Subject to the legal opinion, submit draft legislation allowing the
Telecommunications Law is being   instrument allowing the    executive branch no longer to hear appeals of decisions of any
prepared.                       executive to forego the    regulatory agencies, if such appeals relate to technical and
In the water sector, concessioning   requirement to hear   analytical decisions.
of the Buenos Aires water services  appeals (as per the third
company, and it was followed by    tranche conditions).
the concessioning of several other
municipalities and provinces.
Enhance        Absence of an   In the transport sector, Argentina   Assessment of options   Present the design and implementation plan of a federal
transport      integrated       provided concessions in virtually    and technical proposal for  regulatory agency for freight transport services, which entity
regulation     approach to      all sub-sectors - railways, ports,    structure and         would regulate port, airport, rail and trucking sectors under an
regulation in    toll roads and airports.        responsibilities of an      integrated framework aimed at encouraging multi-modality in the
transport                                        integrated federal agency   use of transport services.
services.                                         for freight transport
services.



Annex F
Page I of 12
ARGENTINA
SPECIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LEITTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
DEEPENING OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC REFORMS
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This Letter of Development Policy describes the economic reform program of
Argentiaa as well as spccific steps to deepen the second-generation reforms that tbc
Govemment is ia the process or implemcnting during a period of unsettled
intemational financial conditions. To implement these reforms under the current
conditions, the Government requests financial assistance from the World Bank and
the Inter-American Development Bank. We would like to takc this opportunity to
also present thc macrocconomic framework that complements the reform program.
I. Macroeconomic Framework
2.    Seven years have passed since Argentina adopted the Convertibility Plan.
This has been Argentina's most successful economic program in decades, anid its
achievements, durability, and contiinued public support are a testimony to its success.
Inflation, the scourge of Argentina for decades has been defeated, and economic
growth during these past seven years, despite the sharp 1995 setback, averaged an
annual 6.2 percent. Productivity has been increasing very fast thanks to the broad
liberalization of the economy, aad the initial consLunption-lcd boom matured in recent
years into a healthy pattem of investment-led and export-led growth. Whilc povcity
has declined since the inception of this plan, unemployment remains an issue of
concern, highlighting the need, and the Government's commitment towards continued
reforms.
3.    By laying the basis for price stability, the Govemment has charted En agenda
for the future with the fbllowing objectives:
4.



Annex F
Page 2 of 12
the consolidation of stability through strict compliance with Law 23928 of
MNarch 27, 1991 (the Convertibility Law), the prescrvation of fscal restraint,
the operation of a competi6tic market economy, and regulation by the state of
non-competitive markets;
*     the strengthening of economic growth trough increased levels of savings,
investment, productivity, privatization of public enterprises, private sector
development and exports as well as intensirication of trade, financial and
technological integration of the Argentine economy with world markcts and,
$     the achievement of higher levels of employment and a more equitable
distribution of income, both at a personal and regional basis, through
consolidation of economic stability and growth, increased public investment
in human resource developnient aLnd social serviccs, and measures to promote
regional development.
4.    To ensure that the private sector remains the leading expansionary force in the
economy, the Government is committed to maintain flexible and open markets free of
domcstic regulations and of major external trade barriers, and with a strong financial
sector to improve intermediatiorL The Government's program of market reforrns
covers the following areas:
*     Competitivc Market Economy: The Government has eliminated controls on
prices, wages, interest rates, and capital flows as well as a complex nctwork of
subsidies and implicit taxes. The Govcmment is committed to maintain such
policics. Thirough its privatization program, the Governmient has successfully
withdrawni from direct involvcment in economic production that had reduced
the country's growth potential. Leaving this role to the private sector, the
govenment can now focus on a more clearly defined role, in terms of
enhancing the regulatory environment for private sector development,
providing thc basic requirements of the social safety net, assuring improved
quality of human capital development, and providing assistance to provincial
and municipal govemmclts in the reform of the sub-national public sector.
*     Trade Liberalization: The Government has made rapid strides towards
opening thc economy to trade, capital and technology. The import taxiff
structure has been simplified and the average tariffrate was lowered to
approximately 8 percent. Export taxes have been nearly climinated, and most
quantitative restrictions and othcr procedures that slowed the entry of imporLs,
capital and technology have been removed. The Goverunent will keep the
economy open to international competition and its antidumping provisions



Annex F
Page 3 of 12
wiU be administered in line with the WTO/GATT code. Moreover, the
MERCOSUR treaty came into full effect in January 1995. As specified in the
Treaty of Asunci6n. the Government eliminated most intra-MERCOSUR
tariffs, and established a common external tariff covering 85 percent of thc
positions in January 1995.
Financial Sector Reform: Financial sector reforns have been aimed at
increasing financial deepening and the efficiency of fimancial intermediation.
Following interest rate liberalization and the elimination of directed credit by
the Central Bank, the Government's strategy has been to increase depositor
and investor confidence under the Convertibility Law. Pricc stabilization,
liberalized interest rates and tighter regulation and enforcement of liquidity,
capital adequacy and provisioning requirements were the chief refonns that
permitted financial deepening. Similarly, capital nmarket reforms including the
elimination of transaction taxes on securities trading and improvenments in the
regulation of public offerings, encouraged the developmcnt of a major
emerging market. In recent years, the authorities took sign"ficant mcasures to
facilitate, tbrough the establishment of two Fiduciary Funds, the restructuring
of provincial and private banks affected by the 1995 crisis. nITc result has
been the privatization of over a dozen public banks and a significant
consolidation and strcngthening of the banking system. The Government is
committed to maintain liberalized interest rates and to refrain from directing
credit allocation of financial institutions. It is also committed to continue
strengthening ban}king supervision, and deepeniing capital markets.
5.    Since the financial crisis of 1994/95, the Governmnent's objective has been to
sustain past achievements by deepening refoTns in the public and financial sectors.
These measures arc aimed at reducing country risk by strengthcning Convertibility.
The following sections discuss these reforms as well as upconing steps of the
economic program.
II. The Reform Agenda
6.    Thc Government's program for 1999 is to maintain and deepen structural
reforms. The Argentine experience so far contains mostly the so-called '"first
generation reforms". The reform strategy in Argentina has centered in changing
macroeconomic rules, reducing the size and drastically narrowing the scope of the
state by dismantling institutions that promoted protectionism and statism.
Privatization of state assets has been far-reaching, and far more successfull than
expected. However, the task of enhancing the institutional capacity of the state and



Annex F
Page 4 of 12
limiting its scope of intervention is not finished as we are still faced with the difficult
task of creating or rehabilitating indispensable public sector institutions.
7.    This new stage of reforms shifts priorities to the consolidation of
macroeconomic stability, sustaining high rates of growlh, and the challenge of
poverty reduction. Following a dramatic decline in poverty in the first years of the
Convertibility Plan, it started rising agan in 1994 mainly for two reasons: the lack of
flexibility in the labor markets to absorb the reallocation of resources set off by
reforms, and the recession following the "tequila crisis". Both factors contributed to a
growth in unemployment, which peaked at 18.4 percent in May 1995 (reduced to 16.1
percent in May 1997, with the onset of economic recovery, and currently at 13.2
percent).
8.    The challenge of poverty reduction in the context of a stable and growing
economy is the priority that drives the reform agenda for the next several years. This
agenda, comprises the following four broad policy areas:
(a) Quality Investment in Human Capital
(b) Efficienr Financial Markets
(c) Enhanced Regulatory Environment
(d) Quality Public Administration, and Fiscal Strengthening
9.    Clearly, the above areas are closely interconnected. Both the reduction in
poverty, which is the first priority of the Argentine Government and economic growth
would benefit from, or more likely critically depend on, reforms in the above areas.
Furthermore, it is essenttial to maintain the gains achieved under what we called first
generation reforms. Ultimately, the above categories of refomi can be secn as
instruments for achieving the primary goal of higher sustainable growth and poverty
reduction.
10.   The goverment is committed to pursuing this agenda of second-generation
reforms. Below, more details are provided for each of the general categories of
reform.
(A) QUALITY INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
11.   The success of the govemment's economic program led to a sharp reduction in
poverty levels during thc early 1990s. Infant mortality rates and adult iUiteracy are



Annex F
Page 5 of 12
well below the average for upper-middle-income countries, while life expectancy and
school enrollment rates (at all levels of education) are above average for upper-
middle-income countries. Despite these achievcments, thc fight against poverty and
the challcnge of improving the distribution of income continue to be important
development goals. Argentina has an extensive system of social programs including
health care, housing, nuLrition and education that are available without charge. In this
context, this loan will support Govemment actions to improve the targeting of social
programs for the poor, and increase the efficiency of existing programs in education,
health and nutrition including the following specific steps:
) The Govemment will develop a national poverty line standard of measurement
and a poverty map;
>r  The Government will review and revise its social sector spending, and undertake
to improve the efficiency of overlapping and poorly targeted programs;
> The Government will identify key programs in health, education and social
development that particularly impact on the poor and vulnerable groups including
basic education, maternal and child health care, vaccination programs, and
emergency employnent programs. These programs will be protected from budget
cutbacks relative to the amounts allocated in the CY98 budget.
)' The Government will continue to work with provincial authorities to provide
assistance in improving the qualily and efficiency of primary and secondary
education programs (a provincial area of responsibility);
> The Govemrnment will address the problem of cost-recovery in public tertiary
education, and incentives will be put in place that will encourage the collection of
fees from students who can pay, and establish scholarships for those who camnot;
>  The Government will continue to provide temporary employment to workers who
have not yct found a place in the newly re-structured economy, through the
TRABAJAR program, which provides funds for local projects of public works in
high poverty areas throughout the country;
) The Governmcnt will continue in its reform of the health care financing system.
To date, the health insurance market has bcen partially liberalized, and a
comprehensive regulatory framework has been introduced; a redistribution fund
has been established to compensate existing health plans for the costs of insuring
workers with lower incomes, and the Governient's health progranm for the retircd,
the INNSJP, has been restruclured and refinanced to increase its internal



Annex F
Page 6 of 12
efficiency, improve equity, and put the system on a sound financial footing. Under
the present operation, the Govemment will undertake a number of "second
generation" reforms in thc health sector, designed to deepen and extend the past
reforms. Ini addition, the Government will continue to provide support to thc
provinces in their efforts to improve provincial health services.
(B) EFFICIENT FINANCIAL MARKETS
12.   Priority Issues for Reom _ in the Financial Sector. The government's policy
of opening up financial markets to competition, along with prudent regu latory
practices has resulted in significant progress in financial sector dcvelcpment since the
beginning of thc Convertibility Plan. Financial institutions have adapted their
policies and products to a low-inflation environment, and the sector is an active
participant in global financial markets. The banking sector was strengthened,
especially in thc aftlermath of the Tequila Crisis in 1994/95. The Goven,mcnt
recognizes, however, that capital market development has becn less profound. In
terms of institutional investors, the Govemment is committed to resolving important
issues regarding insurance, pension and mutual fund companies. Additional reforms
are also needed to improve access to crodit for small borrowcrs, especially for small
businesses. Thcre arc also important institutional issucs to address for the sector as a
whole, including thc need for coordination aniong financial market regulators and a
tax policy that does not discriminate against certain financial instrumcnits.
13.   The Government views the Special Structural Adjustment Loan as an
opportunity to address sonme of the mnost pressing institutional and legal ihpediiiments
to the developm1ent of a sound and robust financial system. The actions to be taken are
focused in the following areas: banking reform; strengthening institutional investors
(insurance, pension funds, mutual funds); SME access to credit (lease finance and
secured transactions); and improved regulatory and tax policy coordination.
>  In an international comparison of regulation of various banking systems in Latin
America and East Asia, Singapore, Argentina, and Hong Kong stand out as
having thc strongest banking regulations. Across virtually all categorics,
Argentina dominates the East Asian countries that have been beset by financial
crises. Thus, whereas no banking system is evcr immune to sufficiently large
shocks, the Argentinc regulatory system appears to be among the most robust, as
it needs to comply with the constraints imposed by Convertibility Law. To
furthcr strengthen the supervisory process, the Government is committed to: (a)
improve failure resolution mcchanisms; (b) pass legislation protecting officials in
the exercise of thcir public duties, to facilitate the restructuring of the banking



Annex F
Page 7 of 12
system; (c) subject publicly owned banks to the same supervisory rigor and
regulatory cnforcement as private banks and, (d) strengthen guidelines for proper
bank govemance, affecting owners, management, and outside directors.
>  Institutional investors. The Government initiated a modemization program for the
insurance industry in thc first half of the 1990s, which resulted in thie closure of
the state reinsurance company (INDER), the privatizatioii of thc Caja de Ahorros
y Seguros (the largest insurance company), and the substitution of premium and
product controls with solvency monitoring. Despite these advances, the industry
has not reached its full potential. The supervision of insuranice finns will be
strengthencd to ensure that regulators have access to timcly and accurate
information as well as the capability to enforce prudential regullations. The mutual
fund industry has grown rapidly in Argentina since the Tequila crisis; however, a
number of issues will be addressed, so as to improve the efficiency of this market
segment. The current compulsory rating requirement creates captive marker for
the rating agencies and significantly adds to the cost of accessing the capital
markets. This system will be dropped, so that these services arc contracted based
on their merit and the value-added they provide to potential investors in
evaluating new securities. In addition, geographic restrictions on mutual fund
overseas investments will be removcd, allowing thosc companies to further
diversify their investments.
>  Another weakness in the financial sector which the Government is committed to
address, is SME access to credit. The medium and small businesses have yet to
fully benefit from liberalization of the financial sector. Factors responsible for
consistently high interest rates and lirnited availability of credit for SMEs include
a weak credit culture and legal and institutional constraints. The GovernmenL will
advancc in legislation to provide for better means of secured transactions for
SMEs, as well as removing legal and tax impediments to the development of the
leasing industry.
> The Government is cornmitted to moving towards neutrality in the impact of tax
policies on financial instrumeints, so that market forces arc driving the financial
marketplace and not arbitrary tax rules. A comprehensive study will bc conducted
to review the tax treatment of financial intermediaries and instruments, and
recommend changcs to the tax law to introduce greater neutrality. The tax
treatment of leasing is also slowing development of the indusiry. The main tax
issue concems the differential inmpact of value-added tax (IVA) on leasing when
performcd by leasing companies vs. commercial banks. This tax disincentive will
be addressed in the reform program.



Annex F
Page 8 of 12
14.   The Contingent'!Repo" Fgilitv. Although the Tequila Crisis had its short-
term costs, the Government used the crisis as an opportunity to accelerate rcforms in
the fimancial sector, contributing to the emergence of a system that is more resilien lo
extemal shocks. As a result, despite unease in the early stages of the more recent
Asian crisis, the resolve and measures introduced by the nmonetay authorities since
the Tequila Crisis (e.g. in staying with the Convertibility Plan, and allowing banks to
fail), contributed to an early recovery of confidence in the banking system.
15.   Banking regulation and supervision help linit the possibility of extensive loss
on bank deposits. Importantly, the authoritics have made their capital and reserve
rcquirements risk-sensilive- Argentina's banking system still remains somewhat
exposed to the negative influence of external shocks, as occurred in 1995, duLe to the
limitations inherent in a currency-board monetary system. As a result, the Central
Baink nioved ahead in implementing an iniovative contingent financing arrangement
with private commercial banks, described below.
16.   To guard against a repeat of the 1995 tequila crisis where credit to SMEs was
severely curtailed generating an important effect on economic activity and a
disproportionate negative effect on employment and poverty levels, the Central Baink
has adopted a liquidity policy for the financial system. This policy consists of two
main instruments: liquidity requirements for commercial banks, and the Conitingent
Liquidity Facility (the repo facility). This facility gives the Central Bauk (BCRAb),
the option to sell dollar-denominated govemment bonds to international baliks subject
io a buy-back clause (with an embedded implicit interest rate). In June 1998, the repo
was written on bonds ($6.2 bn., 13 banks) and mortgages (S500 m., I bank) with a
repo on loans to provinces under negotiation (letter of intent signed). The target is to
maintain a repo facility approximately equivalent to 10 percent of the deposit base of
the banking system.
17.   The Central Bank intends to transfer the state-contingent profits from
exercising the facility to the commercial banks facing the liquidity crisis, whiclh in
turn would presumably use the funds to pay deposit witbdrawals. Banks would
transfer the underlying securities involved in the repo to the BCRA as collateral for
the loans offcred, and the funds lent by the BCRA would be those received from the
exercise of its options. Thus, the facility pemits the BCRA to engage in discount
lending effectively, without "creating money" - the facility permits the BCRA to act
as a lender of last resort without violating its current implicit comrnitnient to maintain
a 100 percent reserves against its liabilities.



Annex F
Page 9 of 12
18.   Part of the idea of the facility, of course, is that having it in place reduces the
likelihood that it will be necessary. That is, the probability that depositors will run
banks is reduced by the presence of the facility.
(C) ENHANCED REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
19.   Argentina's profound structural adjustment program implied significant
reforms aimed at introducing efrective conmpetition in the domestic market such as
opening up its trade regime, removing barriers to foreign investment, liberalizing
domestic goods and capital markets, and broadly deregulating its economy. In its
quest for greater efficiency and restructuring the role of the statc, Argentina has also
becn one of the forerunners in introducing competition and private participation in
infrastructure services through outright privatization and concession contracts in all
infastructure subsectors. Since 1989, virtually all major infrastructure sectors such
as telecommunications, electricity, gas, ports, railroads, toll roads, airports arnd water
have been affected. State monopolies have been unbundled and dismantled and
privatized, sectors have been restructured. A regulatory framework has been
introduced in most of the subsectors, all with the objective to promote entry,
competition and efficiency in delivery of services. In eiectricity for example, the
sector was unbundled between generation, transmission and distibution and twenty
five business units created to introduce competition in the market. ln
telecommunlications, the sector was completely privatized with an initial exclusivity
arrangcment now set to expire in 1999, after which the market will be opened to new
operators. A new Telecommunications Law to establish the framcwork for this is
now being prepared. Argentina also provided sweeping concessions in virtually all
transport sectors in railways, ports, toll roads and airports. In the watcr sector, again,
Argentina was one of the pioncers with the concessioning of the Buenos Aires water
services company and it was followed by the concessioning of several municipalities
in the provinces.
20.   In the eight years since Argentina began these reforms, much has been
achieved, but equally, some issues have now emerged that must be addressed for the
continued improvement in the growth and efficiency in the provision of infrastructure
services. These include the improvement of the regulatory framework (establishing
autonomy of regulatory agencies from the cxecutive branch), introduction of a
Competition Law and an institutional framework to implement it, and the need of a
systemn for speedy and efficient resolution of disputes among concessionaires anid the
Govemment and/or the rcgulatory agency. The Govenmment is committed to develop
legislation to address these issues, in particular, establisbing a specialized tribunal for



Annex F
Page 10 of 12
the resolution of conflicts amongst concessionaires and the Government and/or
regulatory agencies.
(D) QUALITY PUBuIC ADMINUSTRATION, AND FISCAL
STRENGTHENING
21.   The Goverwnent will build upon the progress made in earlier programs to
reform the state sector, rationalizing its administrative structure and improving the
efficiency of the civil scrvice. The Govcmment is committed to advancing further in
these reforms and in continuing to improve transparency.
> Public Exoenditure Review and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework. To
improve the predictability of resource-availability, the strategic allocation of
rcsources amorng priorities, and the efficiency of resource use, the government is
committed to conducting a public expenditurc review and to move fuirthcr towards
applying concepts of a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) and
performance-oriented management. The public expendirure review would focus
on strategic issues in re-aligning the public administration to the changing role of
the government in Arge-ntina. An MTEF involves top-down, multi-year budget
planning, and bottom-up policy planning.
tansparency, In recent years, the Government has advanced in improving the
quality of fiscal and economic data, as well as its dissemination, via publications
and in the intemet. An additional measure included in the plan of work is an
accounting of "tax expenditures" - the tax exeniptions granted to private
companies on a sectoral or regional basis.
>  Law of FiscalRaenonsibilitv. The Government is also developing a new law for
assuring fiscal discipline by the federal govemnncnt, setting limits on public
indebtedness. Thc Government has shown its commitment to meeting IMF fiscal
targcts during 1998, and the proposed budget for 1999 includcs CUts of
approximately US$ I billion, compared to 1998. In addition, to help achieve
these goals, the Government is ncgotiating a new collectivc bargaining agreement
with public employees to provide more flexibility to labor relations in the public
sector. Other measures to improve the efficiency of public expenditures were
mentioned in the human development section above.
?  Provincial govemen  Provincial governments, through their now-dominant role
in the provision of educational, health, and welfare services, account for alrnost



Annex F
Page 11 of 12
haLf of total public expenditure in Argentina. They have gencrally lagged behind
central government in fiscal performance and adjustment of their public sectors.
But thcre is now a strong wave of reform, if at different speeds in different
provinces. This has been demonstrated through recent reforms in the fiscal,
privatiz.tion, deregulation, and pcnsion areas. Since 1996 the ccntral govertunment
has promoted this process by cencouraging civil service refomi, fiscal and debt-
management reform, aad greater efficiency and equity in public spending.
* Federal tax reform. Congress is considering legislation that would: (1) lower
employer payroll contributions; (2) broaden the value-added tax to include
magazines, cable television, and private health care services; (3) chiange the
corporate income tax, so that its base includcs distnbuted profits, worldwide rents
and export tax refunds; limit deductibility of interest costs; and introduce a tax on
firms' assets - to function as a minimum tax.
Reform of intergoveenmental fiscal relations. The current system of
"coparticipation", as it is known in Argentina, is a complex mix of one large
revenue-sharing pool and R series of tax-sharing programs. Total budgetary
transfers to the provinces were SI 8.2 billion in 1997, just under 6 percent of GDP,
and financing about 56 percent of total provincial government expenditures. The
distribution of the general revenue-sharing fund is according to percentages that
were fixed in place by a 1988 law. Some of the sectoral programs follow fairly
reasonablc need-based criteria, while others do not. The final result is a large
diversity in revenucs per capita -- a five-fold difference in reveinues per capita for
the highest and lowest provinces. This dispersion is difficult to justify in temis of
needs and/or cost differentials. Three problems that necd to be addressed in the
reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations arc: (1) simplificationi of the
complicated multiple tax-sharing/revenue-sharing system and consolidation of the
programs into one fund, to improve transparency; (2) introduction of a more
rational formula for distributing thcse resources across provinces; and (3) increase
the degree of correspondence between the provincial tax payer and the provincial
services he/she receives. The latter would involve some form of decentralization
of tax powcrs, either through more provincially administered taxes, or provincial
surcharges on federally collected taxes.
> Provincial TaxReforM. An additional long-standing problem in provincial
finance in Argentina has been the search for a substitute for the distortionazy
provincial "gross receipts" (tumover) tax. This tax is multi-stage sales tax that
accumulates ("cascades') across the stages of production, since unlike the value-
added tax, there is no crediting for tax paid on the purchase of inputs. The



Annex F
Page 12 of 12
Government has been exploring the possibility of a provincial VAT surcharge as a
substitute for thc gross receipts tax. Later, it also could be used as an instrumeint
for furEher tax decentralization (where the federal govenmuent would make tax
room by reducing its VAT rate, the provinces would increase their rate (if they
wish) in exchange for reduced points of coparticipation).
V. World Bank and Inter-American Bank Support
22.   The above presentation demonstrates the depth of the Goverranent's ovcrall
economic rcform program. Financial assistance from the World Bank and the Inter-
Amcrican Development Bank is essential to allow thc Government to remain
focussed on its reform agenda, and to continue to strcngthen the quality of core
govermnmert functions in the social, financial and regulatory sectors.
Sincerely yours,
BUENOS AIPES, rloverib-er, 02 1990.
Dr. ROXUJ##41  N EZ
M- JS   * S PUI..dCO
IWIA;S Y SLAV   iPUL;



Annex G
Argentina at a glance                                                       Pag9/6198of 2
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Argentina   & Carib.  Income     Developmwnt dlamond
1997
Population, mid-year (mRlsons)                     35.2       494       571               Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                8,570     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   302.0     1,917    2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       1.1       1.7      1.5     GNP                            Gross
Labor force (%)                                      1.9      2.3       1.9      p                             Gro
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationel poverty fine)  26
Urban population (% of total population)             88        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     73        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             22        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            2                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               64        73        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  4        13        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoor-age population)  107    111       107       -Argenina
Male                                                                                  Upper-middle-inc    group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratUoa
GOP (USS bilions)                          51.2   110.9     298.7    322.7
Gross domestc investment/GOP               30.7    17.5       18.5     18.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           9.2     8.2       8.9       8.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 34.0    19.3       18.1     18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                 34.1    14.8       16.5     16.4
Current account balance/GDP                 1.3    -2.6      -1.3      -2.9     Domestic       -  _
Interest payments/GDP                       0.9     3.3        1.9      2.0     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                             18.1    47.3       32.4     32.4      \vn
Total debt service/exports                 34.4    82.8      47.2      49.3                       /
Present value of debt/GDP                                    29.5
Present value of debt/exports                               277.7
Indebtedness
19764t6  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.6      3.8     4.8        8.6      4.0        -A rgenlina
GNP per capita                    -1.9      2.9      3.7       7.1      3.1              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      2.8      8.5     6.7       9.1       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMYW
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growthratoaofoutputandlnvewtment(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 8.2      7.8       7.7      7.3
Industry                                   50.9    37.4      35.5      36.4    20 .
Manufacturing                            39.1    27.4       24.7      24.8
Services                                   41.0    54.8       56.8     56.3      0
I92 93 94f 98r 97
Private consumption                        56.6                                 20 -.9..   .29
General government consumption              9.4                                         i     GDl         GDP
Imports of goods and services               5.9      6.3       9.2      9.4
1976486  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports %)
(average annusl growmth)
Agriculture                                 1.2      2.8       3.0      3.3   100
Industry                                   -1.5     3.5       5.0      11.2    so
Manufacturing                             -1.3     3.0       5.3       9.2    so
Services                                    2.1     4.1       4.9       7.7    40
Private consumption                                                             20 ..
General govemment consumption       o                                                       9     9
Gross domestic investment                  -4.8     7.5        8.8     26.5   -20 -     2   93   94         93   97
Imports of goods and services               1.1    19.5       18.2     27.1                 Exports   --.Imports
Gross national product                     -0.4      4.2       4.6      8.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
176    1916       166    1197        InftIon (%)
Donmsdcpdc                                                                      20
(% change)                                                                      200
Consumer prices                              ..       ..       0.2       0.S    ts
Implicit GOP deflator                     433.3    75.7         1.5     -05     10.
Govenmnt finance                                                                 50
(% of GDP, includes currewt grants)                                               o 
Current revenue                              ..       ..      15.4      16.7    --    92        93   94   95   g    97
Current budget balance                       ..       ..      -0.8      -0.4              -GDP deao       e
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..       -1.8     -1.3    _
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    11"        1916f    1167      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..      ..   23,493   24,970    30.000
Food                                        ..       ..    2,203    2,148    25,000
Meat                                                        I'M.1,5  2,158     2.0
Manufactures                                               12,004   13,139    20000
Total imports (cif)                                         22,179   24,619     r000
Food                                                                          10.000   Ai                   l
Fuel and energy                              ..      ..    1,009    1022       5.000
Capital goods                                ..      ..    5,249    5,996         0
el  92  93  94  95  90  97
Export price index (1995=100)                ..       ..       104      104
Import price index (1995=100)                ..       ..       104      106               aExports      SImpors
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..       101       S8
BALANCEofPAYMENTS
1976    19s       1996      1997     Cumrent account balance to GDP rtio (%)
(US$ milblons)
Exports of goods and servies              4,609    8.433    27,037   29,318      0
Imports of goods and services             3,468    6,486    27,910   34,899
Resource balance                          1,141    1,947   - 873    -5,581 .
Net income                                 -508   -4,808    -3,248   -4,005
Net current transfers                        ..        2       334      346    .2
Current account balance                     657   -2.859    -3,787   -9,240    43
Financing items (net)                       261    1,976     7,563   12,302
Changes in net reserves                    -918      883    -3,776   -3,062    -4.
Memo:
Reserves inciuding gold (US$ mElons)         ..   4,427    19,745   22,807
Conversion rate (DEC, lbcat4SS)          2.00E-9  9.00E-5       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
fUSS millions)                                                16       1 N7      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      9,278   52,450    96,677  104,539
IBRD                                      343    1,140     5.372    5,494                        A: 5,494 c: 6,619
IDA                                         0                                   G: 20  0
Total debtservice                          1,616   7,323    14,965   17,264                /_                   4.767
IBRD                                       44      210       608      635
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                                    E: 11.215
Composton of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        3
Official creditors                         42      268      1,449     758
Private creditos                         1,078     375     4,709    6,690
Foreign direct invesbrtnt                   0      574     1.936    3.000
Portfol equity                              0        0                                        F: 50.194
WoUld Bank program
Commitments                               115      724       948    1,221     A-iBFtD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              20      408     1,077      797     B - IDA    D - Other muldiateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                       19      134       282      299    C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                   1      273       795      498
Interest payments                          25       75       326      335
Net transfers                             -24      198       469      162
Development Economics                                                                                            9/16/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29348
710    ,                                         r         60'                                                        50-
20'                              BOLIVIA                    !                                                                                                   20
sI   >.r  \PARAGUAY
jSan Salvador            -o                                               B R A  Z I L
Salta 
t                sSalta                            Formosa7                    k
oTucum6n                              Y  
)                             ~~~~~~~~Resistencia*   Posada  f'' 
Santiago del Estero              orrientes
LL                       Catamarca
La Rioia 
-30'             U                                     6rdoba   Sna30-
-30      t San Juon                          F8 1a<%3Paran6
Mendoza         San
Luis                                        URUGUAY (
eBuenos Aires
f
Santa Rosa
1
\ Neuqu6n&
-4AO                                                   Viedma                                                                                                     0'-
ARGENTINA
C,
,Rawson
.       PROVINCE CAPITALS
 @    NATIONAL CAPITAL
(                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I
-50'                                                                                                                                                              50-
Rio Gallegos                                                       0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
I                                                                0       100     200      300      400 Miles
.   iJThis mop was produced by the Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.
.Ushualo                                           The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
TIERRA                                  on this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group, any
DEL FUEGO                                  judgment on the legaolstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
70'                                                        60'                                                        50
APRIL 199i



