Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4406 -AR
Loan Agreement
(Repurchase Facility Support Loan)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 22, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4406-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1999, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 2, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
reforms in the Borrower’s fiscal, regulatory, financial and human development sectors 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower’s Banco Central de la República Argentina (Central Bank):
(i)
has entered into a series of agreements (the Repurchase Facility 
Agreements), dated December 30, 1997 in one case and December 20, 
1996 in all other cases; and
(ii)
may in the future enter into other additional agreements (also 
deemed to constitute Repurchase Facility Agreements) substantially 
similar in form and content to the agreements referred to in 
Whereas clause (B) (i) above,
all with international financial institutions (the Repurchase Banks), whereby each 
Repurchase Bank agrees to acquire Dollar-denominated securities issued by the Borrower 
(the Securities) from the Central Bank for a sale price, and the Central Bank agrees 
subsequently to repurchase the Securities from each Repurchase Bank for a repurchase 
price defined in the respective Repurchase Facility Agreement;
(C)
the Repurchase Facility Agreements specify that:  (i) Securities sold by 
Page  2
the Central Bank pursuant thereto must, until repurchased by the Repurchase Banks, 
maintain a value equal to between 120% and 130% of the sale price paid to the Central 
Bank by the Repurchase Banks; and (ii) therefore the Central Bank, if the value of the 
Securities drops below the lower end of said range, must either then repurchase the 
Securities from the Repurchase Banks or provide the Repurchase Banks with additional 
securities (the Additional Securities) and/or cash to re-establish a value level equal 
to 125% of said sale price; 
(D)
the Borrower has also requested assistance from the Bank, as part of the 
Bank’s support of the Program, in support of the Central Bank’s obligations to satisfy 
the value maintenance or repurchase obligations referred to in clause (C) (ii) above; 
and
(E)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance by:  (i) making the Loan to the 
Borrower as hereinafter provided; and (ii) making a separate special structural 
adjustment loan to the Borrower identified as Bank loan number 4405-AR (hereinafter 
called the Special Structural Adjustment Loan) as documented in a separate loan 
agreement entered into, or to be entered into, between the Borrower and the Bank 
(hereinafter called the Special Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
" ‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified 
in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
The first sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Deposit Account" means the account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
hundred five million fifty thousand Dollars ($505,050,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the 
Central Bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account, except for the following amounts which it must so 
deposit:  (i) any amounts provided to the Central Bank by Repurchase Banks, pursuant 
to the Repurchase Facility Agreements, to compensate for increases in security value 
above the higher end of the range referred to in Whereas clause (C) of this Agreement; 
and (ii) any amounts resulting from the sale or maturity of the debt securities 
referred to in paragraph (e) (iii) of this Section.
(b)
Even after the Effective Date, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan 
Account (except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement) unless:
(i)
the date June 30, 1999 shall have passed; and
(ii)
the Central Bank shall have sold Securities to any of the 
Repurchase Banks pursuant to the Repurchase Facility Agreements.
(c)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(d)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(e)
The Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan, withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited in the Deposit Account, only for the following 
expenditures to the extent said expenditures are not excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)
for the repurchase by the Central Bank of Securities from 
Repurchase Banks pursuant to the Repurchase Facility Agreements;
(ii)
for the provision of cash (consisting of currency other than the 
legal tender of the Borrower) and/or the acquisition of Additional 
Securities by the Central Bank exclusively to provide such 
Additional Securities and/or cash to Repurchase Banks to 
re-establish the 125% value level referred to in Whereas clause 
(C) (ii) of this Agreement; or
(iii)
during periods when the value of Securities stays within the range 
referred to in Whereas clause (C) (i) of this Agreement, for the 
purchase by the Central Bank of highly liquid debt securities 
denominated in currencies other than the legal tender of the 
Borrower.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 15, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Page  4
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus four (4) percentage points.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate for each Interest 
Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank, or 
any person so authorized in writing to the Bank by said Chairman, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from 
the Effective Date to the earlier of either the Closing Date or the date on which all 
Loan proceeds have been withdrawn from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank for the Bank’s review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program;
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; and
(c)
the Special Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement shall have been declared 
effective by the Bank.
Section 4.02. The date of October 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
With copy to:
Banco Central de la República Argentina
Gerente de Administración de Reservas
Reconquista 266
1003 Buenos Aires Argentina
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Benjamin Fernandez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco
substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
      -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors
728.43                  -
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
Page  7
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2002
126,265,000
through April 15, 2003
on October 15, 2003
126,255,000 
______________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
