RESTRICTED
Report No.   DB-87a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
June 6, 1972
Development Finance Companies Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
7.14 Shillings (Shs.) - US$ 1. -
Shs. 1 million         = US$ 140,000.-
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC     Commonwealth Development Corporation (U.K.)
EADB    East African Development Bank
ICDC    Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (Kenya)
IPS     Industrial Promotion Service
NDC     National Development Corporation (Tanzania)
SIDA    Swedish International Development Authority
TIB     Tanzania Investment Bank
UDC     Uganda Development Corporation
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
East Africa in September 1971, composed of Mr. C. Loganathan (Chief),
Mr. K. Nougaim and Mr. J. C. Kendall.



APPRAISAL OF
TIE EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BAiK
Table of Contents
Page
BASIC DATA ....          ..........................................
SUMMARY  .............................-----.--...ill
1.   INTRODUCTION  ........1...............................1
II.    TIE EiNVIRONMENT        ....................................             2
The Industrial Sector ..............................                     2
Government Policy Towards Industry  ................             .       2
Financial Institutions  ............................ .                   4
III.    'niE EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ..................                     6
Shareholders                     ....                                    6
Objectives   ........................................ .                  6
Resources   ..........................................                   7
The Board of Directors  ......          .......................8 
Policies  ...........................................                    8
The Director General  .......          ..................... .           9
Personnel and Organization  ......            ...................        9
Project Promotion             .      .      ..............., 11
Operating Procedures  .......... . .......  o ............              11
IV.    OPERATIONS AND FItNANCIAL PERFORMANCE ......               .........    13
Operations            .........................................         13
Financial Structure  ..............        ..... .............          1zl
Investments             ........................................        14
Profitabilitv  ...........y........................                     15
Auditors            ........................................            15
V.    PROSPECTS            ..........................................         16
EADB's Role in the East African Community  ....               ......   16
Projections  .........       .................. ..............          16
Resource Requirements ..............................                    17
Projected Financial Results  .......... ..             ............     18
VI.    CONCLUSIONS AN) RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................                    18
The Bank, E.ADB and National Institutions  ...              ........    18
Recommendations    .                ... ..........  19






List of Annexes
1.   Summarized Data on East African Development Institutions
2.   Resources Available for Commitment as of December 31, 1971
3.   Statement of Operating Policies
4.   Organization Chart
5.   Summary of Operations 1969-1971
6.   Projects Approved and Committed to December 31, 1971
7.   Summarized Balance Sheets 1968-1971
8.   Summarized Income Statements 1968-1971
9.   Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements 1972-1976
10.   Projected Cash-Flow 1972-1976
11.   Projected Balance Sheets 1972-1976
12.   Projected Statements of Income 1972-1976
13.   Projection Assumptions
14.   Selected Data on Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda and Total East Africa
Location of Projects Approved to December 31, 1971






- i -
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
Date of Formation: December 1, 1967
Date of Which Started Operations: July 1, 1968
Operating Performance (in Shs. millions):
a)  Loans and Guarantees                   (Years ending December 31)
1969     1970     1971      Total
Approvals                          36e9     35.5     UT.       119.2
Commitments                         8.5     35.6     27.2       71.3
Disbursements                       3.9     14.2     37.4       55.5
b)  Equity Investments
Approvals                            -       3.8        -        3.8
Commitments                          _       3.8       -         3.8
Disbursements                        -       o.6      2.0        2.6
c)  Country Distribution of Total Investments (%)I/
Approvals     Commitments      Disbursements
Kenya                       29             46                37
Tanzania                    33             33                39
Uganda                      38             21                24
100            100               100
Financial Performance:
a)  Summarized Balance Sheets (Shs. million)
1968     1969     1970      .971
Current assets                     74.5    101.3    121.4      86.4
Loans (net)                          -       3.9      18.0     55.2
Equity investments                   -        -        0.6      2.6
Fixed assets (net)                  0.7      2.4       4.5     11.2
Total Assets - Liabilities                 n 107.6   TIM4     TM 4
Short + medium term liab.          -7.7    37.7       46       1
Net Worth                          72.8    103.9    139.9    145.4
Overall Debt/Equity ratio           ./1 o.         a      6      7
Reserves + Provisions as % of
loan and equity portfolio          -      141        63       30
1/ To December 31, 1971 except disbursements which to February 28, 1972.
2/ Unaudited.



- ii -
b) Summarized Income Statements (Shs. million):
1968     1969     1970     1971E/
Total Income                           2.1      7.2     10.1      10.5
Total Expenses                         1.3      2.6      3.9       4.9
Operating Profit                  0.8      4.6      6.2      5.6
plus non-recurring profit lges losses  -         -         -       0.1
less provisions                         -        -        0.1      0.2
Total ProfiV2                     0.8      4.6      6.1      5.5
Operating profit, before provisions,
as % of average net worth             3.5      5.3      5.1      3.9
Total profit, after provisions,
as % of average net worth             3.5      5.3      5.0      3.8
Resources Posltion (as of December 31, 1971):
(Shs. million)
Called-up Capital and Reserves                       146.8
Borrowings, medium term                                7.4
Total Resources                                 154.2
less:
Loans and equity investments outstanding (net)        57.8
Undisbursed commitments                               15.7
Fixed assets (net)                                     1.2
Uncommitted Resources                            69.5
Interest Rates and Other Charges
Interest rate:                                   8% - 9% p. a.
Commitment fee:                                      None
Evaluation fee:                                  1% of investment
Z/ Unaudited.
Y/ Tax exempt.



-iii. 
SUMMARY
i.        The East African Development Bank (EADB) is one of the institutions
of the East African Community. It was created in 1967 when the Treaty for
East African Co-operation was signed by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. EADB is
specifically charged with helping to redress industrial imbalances between
Partner States, and hence must invest its resources so as to favor Tanzania
and Uganda.
ii.       Though East Africa is still in the initial stages of industrializa-
tion, investment in manufacturing has increased and industrial output has
grown at a satisfactory, though not spectacular, rate. The outlook for fur-
ther industrialization is favorable. Both ideology and lack of African entre-
preneurs have led the three governments to assume a major, though varying,
role in the industrial sector. Partly because of their differing approaches,
there has been friction between Partner States of the Community, but its in-
stitutions and the Common Market have shown an ability to survive, and their
value is recognized by the Partner States.
iii.      Though there are development finance institutions within each
Partner State, EADB has a significant role to play in financing industrial
development in the region, alone and in co-operation with other development
institutions. EADB can provide larger amounts of financing for individual
projects than development finance companies not owned by the governments;
it is in a better position than government-owned development institutions
to appraise projects impartially; and it is in a unique position to evaluate
regional projects.
iv.       EADB's highest authority in most matters is its Board of Directors
which makes all decisions on operations. The present Board is appointed by
the three Partner States, though there is provision for appointment of addi-
tional directors to represent other shareholders once ownership is more
diversified. The Charter specifies that Partner States will own at least
51% of EADB's shares at all times; their present holding is over 90%. EADB's
Charter also contains general operating guidelines and limitations which are
reasonable and prudent; they have been complemented, at the Bank's suggestion,
by a Statement of Policies which will further serve to safeguard EADB's fi-
nancial position.
v.        EADB's Director General is appointed by the Community Authority. 1/
The present Director General is competent and has the stature for this posi-
tion. Expatriate staff have been retained to assist in the more technical
tasks of development banking. Continued expatriate assistance will be re-
quired while East African staff - which is academically well-qualified, but
lacks experience - develops its own capabilities. EADB's appraisal methods
and operating procedures are adequate but need improving in some respects,
particularly in evaluating clients' procurement procedures and the economic
impact of projects.
1/   Consisting of the three Presidents of the Partner States.



-  ir
vi.       A major proportion of EADB's commitments to date have been made in
projects sponsored by parastatal enterprises, and EADB has co-operated closely
with other development institutions in the region. Its approvals have shown
an encouraging tendency to increase, although commitments and disbursements
have lagged.
vii.      EADB's financial position is good and it is creditworthy.  It anti-
cipates a substantial increase in its business and requires additional resour-
ces to meet its forecast commitments. A gap of US$13.7 million, to meet the
import component of projects EADB expects to commit itself to up to the end
of 1973, is projected. A Bank loan of US$8.0 million is recommended. Con-
sidering EADB's short span of existence and relatively low level of opera-
tions and profitability to date, it should receive concessional treatment
in respect of the commitment charge applicable to the Bank loan. EADB's
initial free limit per sub-loan would be US$300,000 equivalent, with an ag-
gregate free limit of US$2.4 million. Other loan conditions would be those
normal for Bank loans to development finance companies.



APPRAISAL OF
THE EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The East African Community, of which Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
are the Partner States, was created on December 1, 1967 on the recommenda-
tion of a Commission appointed to review previous regional agreements among
the three countries. For several decades there had been extensive regional
co-operation. However, because of favorable location and climate, and a
comparatively large expatriate community, Kenya's industrial sector had
developed much further by the mid-1960's than those of Tanzania and Uganda.
The latter two countries felt that they should be provided opportunities to
catch up with Kenya, so the Treaty for East African Co-operation, which es-
tablished the East African Community, was designed to redress imbalances
in industrial development, as well as to strengthen ties among the three
Partner States. The Treaty provided for a Common Market with a common ex-
ternal tariff, a uniform system of taxation and fiscal incentives, and the
continued operation of four jointly owned Corporations to provide common
services (post and telecommunications, railways, harbors and an airline).
The headquarters of the Community was established at Arusha, in Tanzania.
1.02      Several provisions of the Treaty are aimed at compensating for in-
dustrial imbalances. First there is a system for sharing equally among the
Partner States 20% of i* ncome tax collected from manufacturing and finan-
cial enterprises within the Community.  Second, fiscal incentives to indus-
trial investment are to be harmonized.  Third, there is a system of transfer
taxes by which a Partner State having a negative trade balance in manufac-
Lure'd goods with another Partner State may impose (subject to various limit-
ations) a transfer tax on imports of goods from the state with a positive
trade balance, provided the state imposing the tax manufactures, or plans
to manufacture, the goods in question. This tax can amount to up to hialf
the value of the common external tariff. Since, at the time the Treaty was
signed, Kenya had a positive balance of trade in manufactured good- w'ith
its two partners, and Uganda a positive balance with Tanzania, this provi-
sion has protected a number of industries in Tanzania, and a somewhat
smaller number in Uganda.
1.03      The fourth and most direct means by which the signatories of the
Treaty sought fri redress imbalances in industrial development was the creation
of the East African Development Bank (EADB), which is charged with allocating
its investments to favor Tanzania and Uganda, thus assisting them to catch up
with their more industralized partner.
1.04      The World Bank Group established close relations with EADB even
before it made its first commitments in 1969. From time to time thereafter,
Bank personnel has visited EADB's headquarters in Kampala to advise on orga-
nization, personnel and operating policies. In November, 1970, EADB indicated
that it might need long-term resources from the World Bank by the beginning of
1972. A Bank mission headed by Mr. C. Loganathan and including Mr. K. Nougaim



- 2 -
and Mr. J. C. Kendall accordingly visited East Africa, from August 30 to
September 17, 1971, to appraise EADB.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT 1/
The Industrial Sector
2.01      East Africa is still in the initial stages of industrialization.
The population of the region, totalling approximately 33 million, is over-
whelmingly engaged in agriculture, mostly on a subsistence basis. About
160,000 people are employed in industry, and manufacturing accounts for
about 10% of the three countries' combined GDP. About half the regional
value of manufactures are produced by Kenya, while Uganda's industrial pro-
duction is sdk6what greater than Tanzania's. Manufactures accounted for
about 60% of'to-tal trade within the Community in 1968. Agricultural proc-
essing accounts for 45-50% of industrial output, and other consumer goods
for most of the remainder.
2.02      Dur'ing the 1960's manufacturing output expanded at an average rate
of about 6.5% per annum in Uganda and Kenya and 12.0% in Tanzania. The pace
in Uganda and Kenya slowed in the latter years of the decade. Data on indus-
trial investment since 1965 is summarized below:
(in millions of Shs.)
1965     1966      1967      1968     1969      1970
Kenya              152       190      298       218       168      262
Tanzania            70       150      181       226       171      314
Uganda              95        67      108       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
Total              317       407     i587 !         -
2.03      Up to May 1970, the currencies of all three Partner States circu-
lated freely within the region, and were convertible at par.  Since then,
Uganda has prohibited the import and export of its bank notes, and Tanzania
has done the same. All three countries now have exchange controls but pay-
ments on current account are normally made without difficulty or delay.
Government Policy Towards Industry
2.04      Most East African industries enjoy a fairly high level of protec-
tion, though not as high as in many other developing countries. Nominal du-
ties on consumer goods from outside the region range from 30% to 50%. In-
1/   Detailed information is given in the following reports:
(a) Economic Development in East),Africa (five volumes), June 28, 1971,
Report No. AE-16a.
(b)  Industrial Development in EaSt Africa:  Progress, Policies, Prob-
lems and Prospects (four volufii'), April 16, 1971, Report No.
AE-12.



-3-
termediate goods are subject to duties of around 30%, but thiese may be re-
mitted wholly or in part when the goods are processed within the country.
Other protective devices are also employed at times, including quantitative
import restrictions, licensing requirements to manufacture or import, and
discriminatory purchasing by state trading corporations.
2.05      Beside protection, other incentives are available.  These include
a 20% investment credit (by which 120% of the value of an investment may be
depreciated), duty free import of machinery and equipment, and loss carry-
forward allowances for tax purposes (without time limitation). Export in-
dustries are favored by a remission of sales taxes and duties on imported
inputs. The corporate tax rate is a moderate 40% of profits. Finally, le-
gislation in effect in the three countries provides that profits and invest-
ments may be repatriated, and that there will be full, fair and prompt set-
tlement in case of expropriation.
2.06      Commerce and industry have largely been controlled by Europeans
and Asians resident in East Africa, and by foreign firms. During the past
five years trade licensing laws have been enacted to Africanize retail dis-
tribution, which has been mostly in the hands of Asians. Some of the Asians
forced out of commerce have reinvested in light manufacturing, while others
have left East Africa with their capital.
2.07      Both ideology and the lack of indigenous entrepreneurs have in-
fluenced all three Partner States to assume a major, though varying, role
in the industrial sector. In Kenya, many new industrial projects are joint
ventures of foreign private firms and the Government, the latter holding a
minority share. In Tanzania, Government policy since 1967 requires major-
ity State ownership of all industries considered to be basic to the economy.
A number of total or partial nationalizations have taken place, giving the
Government a controlling interest in most important industrial concerns.
In Uganda, jthe previous Government passed an Act in 1970 under which it was
to acquire a 60% interest in Uganda's major industrial enterprises; however,
the present Government, which came into power early in 1971, has not imple-
mented this Act and has announced a policy of welcoming foreign priv_ . in-
vestment.
2.08      Differences among the Partner States in 1971 gave rise to some un-
certainty about the future of the Common Market, and many investors hesitated
to base investment decisions on the assumption of permanent access to the
regional market. However, efforts to pursue a regional approach to industrial
investment continue and the Community has undertaken to study three industries
that require a regional market - motor vehicles, chemicals and steel. In
cooperation with other Community organizations, EADB may have an important
role to play in implementing these plans.
2.09      East Africa has substantial potential for continued and accelerated
industrial development. The Common Market and the Community have survived
both the stresses of the post-independence years and the political divergences
of the Partner States. The growth rate of the regional economy has been sa-
tisfactory, although not spectacular, and the prospects for further expansion



are favorable.  One may expect a fairly rapid rise in agricultural output, an
expansion of activity in other fields such as tourism and trade, as well as an
extension of the money economy -- all of which will support an increasingly ef-
ficient and varied industrial sector.
Financial Institutions
2.10      EADB is the only development finance institution which operates on
a regional basis in the Community, but there are a number of national develop-
ment banks. In each Partner State there is a government-owned development
corporation; a development company owned by British, German and Dutch public
institutions together with the national government of each country; and a
small private development company. Annex 1 contains some comparative data on
these institutions.
2.11      The three national development corporations serve as instruments of
government policy in the development field. The Industrial and Commercial
Development Corporation (ICDC) of Kenya was mainly concerned with providing
assistance to small African traders and industrialists up to the late 1960's.
More recently ICDC has invested in a number of medium and large scale indus-
trial projects sponsored by foreign investors. The National Development Cor-
poration (NDC) of Tanzania was chiefly geared to the promotion of new enter-
prises since it started operations in 1965, and has played a major role
since the nationalization act of 1967 as the holding company for state-owned
corporations. The Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) is also more a promo-
tion and holding company than a banking institution. UDC has had a major
role in the development of Ugandats industrial sector. It wholly owns a num-
ber of the largest enterprises in Uganda, and has also entered into joint
ventures with private investors. In general, government-owned development
corporations have experienced management and financial problems with their
numerous subsidiaries. The development corporations themselves often have
trouble in obtaining resources from their governments for further invest-
ments, and in two cases (NDC and UDC) liquidity problems exist.
2.12      The second group of development institutions in the Partner States of
the Community are the three multinational development finance companies. They
were started in the early 1960's at the initiative of the British Government's
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), which has an equal share with
German and Dutch Government organizations, and the national development cor-
porations of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. 1/ Each development finance company
has a manager seconded by CDC. These companies take minority shareholdings
and provide term loans to industrial projects, usually with foreign sponsors.
National partners are also sought, and these are often the national develop-
ment corporations, sometimes in association with local private capital. In
terms of the number of projects supported these development finance companies
1/   The Dutch have not yet invested in the Uganda Company.



have performed quite well, though the size of their individual investments is
limited by their comparatively small capital.
2.13      The Industrial Promotion Services (IPS) group, sponsored by His
Uighness the Aga Khan, established a small development company in each of
the three Partner States in 1963. They provide medium and long-term loans
and equity financing to projects sponsored by the Ismaili Community and
sometimes by other groups. So far IPS's impact has been minor. In Kenya,
at least one other investment company (Africindo) has been formed, with
even smaller capabilities and results.
2.14       In addition to the foregoing, Tanzania has recently established
the Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB) to complement NDC. The Government
wants to separate the promotion of industrial projects from their appraisal
and financing. NDC will continue to be a promoter and a controlling share-
holder of industrial enterprises, while TIB is expected to provide long-
term loans and to take minority shareholdings after subjecting investment
proposals to an objective examination.
2.15      Commercial banks in East Africa engage in term  lending to indus-
trial projects only in exceptional cases. Some foreign-owned banks in Kenya,
however, have accumulated idle resources since exchange controls were put
into effect, and have undertaken to finance a considerable share of the ca-
pital requirements of some industrial projects.
2.16      Interest rates in the three countries have been maintained at simC?               I
ilar levels, but vary considerably to different borrowers.  The commercial
bank rate to prime customers is a minimum of 7% per annum, while most cus-
tomers are charged between 8.0% and 9.5%.  Rates for crop financing are
lower than the prime commercial rate because of special central bank redis-
counting Facilities. In Tanzania, parastatal enterprises 1/ have borrowed
directly from the Treasury at rates below commercial levels.
I2.17       There are no developed capital markets in East Africa.  Kenya lhas
anembryonic stock market, but trading is mostly in shares of a few .,ll-known
-enterprises.  Long-term financing from institutional investors, other than
levelopment banlls, is also scarce.  Though many international insurance com-
panies operate in E-ast Africa, none have made significant investments in the
industrial sector to date.
2.18      The availability of term loans for industrial projects in East
Africa depends in large part on the type of project. Parastatal enterprises
in Tanzania and Uganda have generally been financed by the government-owned
development corporations, although the latter have not had sufficient local
and foreign currency resources to support as many projects as they desired.
1/   i.e., majority government-owned enterprises.



- 6 -
Small, privately owned industrial and service enterprises, on the other hand,
have obtained support from the CDC-sponsored development finance companies.
There remains a gap in sources of credit for medium and large-scale enter-
prises of mixed national and foreign ownership, which EADB is in an excellent
position to fill alone or in cooperation with other financial institutions.
EADB can supply larger amounts of credit to each project than the CDC-
sponsored development finance companies, it is in a better position to
appraise impartially projects sponsored by parastatal entities than the
government-owned development corporations; and lastly, it is uniquely
equipped to evaluate regional projects.
III. THE EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Shareholders
3.01      EADB's Charter provides that the three Partner States should each
subscribe to 20% of EADB's authorized capital, and maintain equal proportions
in future subscriptions.  Further provisions stipulate that the Partner States
shall at no time jointly own less than 51% of subscribed capital, though other
institutions may make subscriptions provided they are approved by a majority
of EADB's Board of Directors and by the East African Authority (which consists
of the Presidents of the three Partner States).
3.02      EADB's shareholders as of June 30, 1971 were as follows:
Amount paid-in          % of Paid-in
(Shs. millions)           Capital
Government of Kenya                          40.0                   31.20
Government of Tanzania                       40.0                   31.20
Government of Uganda                         40.0                   31.2n
African Development Bank                      3.5                    2.71
National and Grindlays Bank                   2.4                    1.87
Yugoslav Consortium                           1.4                    1.11
Commercial Bank of Africa                     0.5                    0.39
Barclays Bank International Ltd.              0.2                    0.16
Standard Bank                                 0.2                    0.16
128.2                  100.00
3.03      The sale of shares to institutions other than the Partner States
has not gone as well as was initially expected. No large subscriptions from
new shareholders are expected in the near future.
Objectives
3.04      The Charter states that EADB's main objective is to promote in-
dustrial development in Partner States by providing technical and financial



- 7 -
assistance. In so doing, it must give priority to the relatively less de-
veloped Partners so as to reduce industrial imbalances. At the same time, it
must endeavour to increase the extent to which Partner States complement one
another in the industrial field. In fulfilling these objectives, it must
supplement the activities of national development agencies and co-operate with
other development organizations, whether public, private, national or inter-
national. Industry is defined to mean manufacturing, assembling and process-
ing industries. Building, transport and tourism are specifically excluded.
3.05      EADB's Charter requires that peIr periods of five years*of opera-
tion it make, as nearly as possible, 22.5% of its investments in Kenya and
38.75% each in Tanzania and Uganda. The distribution is to be reviewed at
the end of EADB's first ten years of operation. 1/ The main consequence of
this differential formula is that EADB's overall investment activities may
be inhibited by the lack of investment opportunities in any one Partner State;
this would mean that EADB would have to promote investments in the lagging
country to increase its investments in the others,
Resources
3.06      EADB's authorized capital is Shs. 400 million (US$56.0 million) of
which Shs. 259.2 (US$36.3 million) have been subscribed by the member share-
holders shown in paragraph 3.02. Half the subscribed capital had been paid-in
as of June 30, 1971 and the other half is callable only to repay borrow-
ings or to honour guarantees. Callable capital is therefore an indirect
guarantee given by EADB's shareholders to its creditors.
3.07      The Charter denominates capital in units of account equivalent
to 0.124414 grams of fine gold, corresponding to the then par value of the
three East African currencies. Partner States disbursed half their paid-in
capital subscriptions in foreign currencies and half in their national cur-
rencies. The Charter specifies that, in the event that the currency of any
Partner State should be devalued, that Partner must increase its subscription
so as to restore the original value to the extent that the original capital
payments have not been disbursed or converted into other currencies.
3.08      EADB has not yet entered into any significant borrowing agreements,
as shown in Annex 2. However, a loan has been negotiated with the African
Development Bank for US$2.0 million equivalent, at 6.5% interest per annum,
with repayment in fixed amortizations over a period of 15 years. Ten percent
of the loan may be available for local currency procurement purposes.
3.09      A significant proportion of loans so far granted by EADB have
been in local currencies, and these operations have been financed out of
its equity capital. In order to continue to provide its customers with
1/   ThIe Charter is not clear on whether these proportions are to be achiieved
on an approval, commitment or clisbursement basis.



- 8 -
local currency financing, EADB should seek new sources of funds in shillings.
The Charter empowers it to borrow within the territories of Partner States
with the approval of the governments concerned, and EADB is giving thought to
ways of obtaining additional local currency resources.
The Board of Directors
3.10      EADB's highest authority is its Board of Directors, except for
certain matters 1/ which must be decided by the Community Authority in con-
sultation with the Board. The Board is composed of three directors, each
appointed by a Partner State. The Charter also provides that two addition-
al directors may represent non-government shareholders. Non-government
shareholders are not yet represented, however, as their individual and joint
share subscriptions are too small, although National and Grindlays Bank and
the Consortium of Yugoslav Banks are normally invited to send observers to
board meetings, and do so.
3.11      Board meetings are convened and chaired by the Director General.
According to the Charter, meetings must be held at least every three months,
and the practice has been to hold them at these intervals. All operational
transactions must be presented by the Director General to the Board for
approval. Voting power is determined by the number of shares directors
represent. The Director General does not vote. Resolutions are carried
by a simple majority of the votes represented by the directors.
3.12      Membership of the Board is for a three--year period, though Partner
States may change their directors at will and reappoint them. Tanzania and
Kenya have been represented by officials of the Ministries of Commerce and
Industry, and Finance and Economic Planning, respectively, while the Ugandan
Director is from the private sector. Board membership was fairly stable dur-
ing the first two years of operation, but several changes were made by Kenya
and Tanzania during 1970 and 1971.
Policies
3.13      EADB's Charter states that EADB will be guided by sound banking
principles and that it shall finance only economically sound, technically
feasible and properly appraised projects. It is prohibited from engaging in
refinancing operations. It is required to supervise its investments and to
make certain that its funds are used with due attention to economy and effi-
ciency.
3.14      In addition to general guidelines, the Charter contains a number
of operating limitations designed to safeguard EADB's financial soundness.
These limitations are reasonable and prudent. They were complemented, at
1/   These include:  the appointment of the Director General, increases in
authorized capital, Charter amendments and admission of new members
(shareholders).



-9-
the Bank's suggestion, by a Statement of Operating Policies, approved by
EADB's Board on May 4, 1972, which will help guide Management on day-to-day
decisions regarding EADB's exposure to investments in a single enterprise.
The Statement also provides that EADEi will protect itself against foreign
exchange risks in its operations and that its Management and auditors will
critically review the investment portfolio at least yearly so as to estab-
lish the adequacy of provisions. A copy of the Statement may be found in
Annex 3.
3.15      The Charter contains two operating limits which seem unduly re-
strictive: neither EADB's total equity investments nor its total guaran-
tees can exceed 10% of net worth. Though these limits have not restricted
operations so far, they could do so in future. The limit on equity invest-
ments, in particular, could hamper EADB's promotional role. EADB's Manage-
ment is seeking an amendment to the Charter which will enable EADB to in-
vest a greater proportion of its net worth in shares of other companies.
The Director General
3.16      The Director General is appointed by the East African Authority
for a period of five years. The Director General is EADB's Chief Executive
and legal representative. His main responsibilities are to interpret policy,
set objectives for operations, formulate long-term plans, structure EADB's
organization and develop its management. Mr. Iddi Simba, a Tanzanian, has
been EADB's only Director General. He had previously been an Alternate Ex-
ecutive Director of the World Bank, Acting Permanent Secretary of Planning,
and Assistant Commissioner of Planning in the Government of Tanzania. He
has the stature and administrative competence required for his job and has
retained advisors to help him perform the more technical functions satisfac-
torily.
3.17      Friction between Tanzania and Uganda early in 1971, resulted in
the temporary expulsion of several Community organization officials from
the territories of both countries.  The Director General was one of the
officials affected but he was permitted to return to Kampala, where EADB's
headquarters are located, in November 1971 after differences between the
two Partner States had been overcome. The Director General carried out
his functions from Nairobi and Dar-es-Salaam during his five-month absence
from Kampala.
Personnel and Organization
3.18      The Director General has considerable freedom in selecting senior
staff. Partner States expect, however, that as many senior staff positions
as possible will be filled by East Africans and that appointments will be
distributed more or less evenly among the three countries. In the short
period of EADB's existence, the Director General has recruited some 22 young,
well educated East Africans to staff the organization. Most are university
graduates in engineering, economics, or business administration and have two
or three years business experience. Their average tenure at EADB is about



- 10 -
two years. Their inexperience has been compensated for by obtaining the
services of six expatriate advisors, some of whom also have management re-
sponsibilities. Most of them have been seconded from variou* external aid
organizations which pay their salaries. (See organization chart in Annex 4.)
The expatriate staff play an important role in EADB, both in ensuring effi-
cient operations and in providing on-the-job training to East African staff.
Expatriate advisors will probably be required in some functions for at least
five years more.
3.19      The Deputy Director General, Mr. J. G. Shamalla, is a lawyer who
previously served in the Kenyan Civil Service. He has been with EADB for
about 2 years. The Deputy Director General oversees the legal, secretarial,
and treasurer's functions. He could also usefully include long-term plan-
ning and mobilization of resources in his functions.
3.20      Mr. M. S. Gujarathi, an Indian who has only been with EADB as
Treasurer for less than one year, is an experienced commercial banker. His
task at EADB is a challenging one. Accounting systems need upgrading to
provide management with adequate information on operations as EADB grows.
Long-term financial planning should be emphasized and more attention paid
to the securing of local currency resources. The Deputy Director General
and Treasurer should jointly improve planning in this area.
3.21      The Chief of Operations is responsible for all EADB's term invest-
ment activities.  He reports directly to the Director General and supervis,--
project promotion, appraisal and investment follow-up. lie also supervises
EADB's recently opened regional offices in Nairobi and Dar-es-Salaam. The
present Chief of Operations is Mr. L. Berring, a Swedish national seconded
by SIDA 11, who has been with EADB since 1969. He has extensive commercial
banking experience. Mr. Berring is due to finish his contract with EADB in
July 1972, and will be replaced by Mr. T.E. Ericson, an experienced manage-
ment consultant recommended to EADB by SIDA, which has offered to pay for
his salary. It is expected tHat Mr. Ericson will emphasize project promotion
during his two-year assignment to EADB.
3.22      The Project Appraisal division within the Operations Department
is headed by Mr. M. B. Ngatunga, a Tanzanian graduate in economics, who has
been with the EADB for almost four years.  He has under him seven E1ast
African project officers with backgrounds in economics, engineering or busi-
ness administration. A team of three people of different specialties is nor-
mally assigned to project appraisals.   For the time being, two such teams
are sufficient for EADB's requirements, but the aim is eventlally to have
three teams in the Project Appraisal division.
3.23      The Project Supervision division, also responsible for disbursement
control, is under Mr. I. 0. Baruti, a Tanzanian graduate in business adminis-
tration, who has been with EADB for almost four years. He has three project
1/   Swedish International Development Authiority.



- 11 -
officers under him. Since EADB's operational portfolio is being built up,
this group is still in the process of organizing its work and establishing
working relations with customers. It has sometimes had to borrow project of-
ficers from the Appraisal division to do supervision work.
3.24      The Technical Advisor to the Operations Department participates in
project appraisals and advises on technical matters when required.  The ex-
patriate who has filled this position has recently left, and hlr. H. Nathan,
an experienced British industrial engineer seconded by UNIDO who now heads
1.ADB's Research and Planning Department, will be named to this position.
Project Proinotion
3.25      The recently created Project Preparation and Promotion division is
headed by Mr. !E. Rebeling, 38, a Swedish specialist in management accounting,
who reports to tlhc Chief of 0-perations.  The function of this group will be
to identify and develop investment onoortunities, but its modus operandi has
not been clearly established yet.
3.26      The Researchi and Planning Department is also concerned with project
development, but more in macro-economic terms. Tt completed an overall study
of the East African economy in November 1970 which identified several indus-
trial fields for possible investment projects.  The Department is now prepar-
ing pre-feasibility studies on fourteen of these industries. It is headed by
Mr. N>athan who is supported by another UNIDO expatriate and a local officer.
3.27      EADB's efforts in project development have so far not resulted in
any investments; a reorganization and reorientation of this activity seems
called for. The Project Preparation and Promotion Division and the Research
and Planning Department might advantageously be merged into a single depart-
ment, with terms of reference clearly de-emphasizing the more abstract macro-
economic studies prepared in the past. It should also be discouraged from
getting too involved in the detailed planning of projects; such responsibi-
lities should be undertaken by sponsors with appropriate knowledge of the
industry concerned. In order to find sponsors for the projects it identifies,
EAD]B should develop contacts with the business world both within and without
East Africa, and should use its branch offices in Nairobi and Dar-es-Salaam
to a greatpr extent for this purpose. The Director General is currently con-
sidering the respective roles of these two units, and it is likely that they
will be reorganized when Mr. Nathan assumes hiw new responsibilities as Tech-
nical Advisor.
Operating Procedures
3.28      Detailed manuals on all important aspects of operations have been
Drepared by the expatriate advisors with a view to training staff and also
establishing sound operating procedures. The manuals cover the marketing,
technical, financial and economic aspects of project appraisals. The cover-
age of the financial and economic aspects is somewhat confusing as a number
of techniques are prescribed, not all of which seem relevant. EADB's ap-
praisals follow these guidelines fairly closely and therefore, although com-



- 12 -
plete in their coverage, tend to be over-elaborate in some respects, while
major issues are not always examined in depth.  Despite these shortcomings,
appraisals are carefully prepared and usually present a good description of
the project. EADB is considering moving towards a more straightforward
economic rate of return test in analyzing the economic merits of projects.
3.29      EADB's procedures to check on its client's procurement need
improvement. Appraisal teams often do not question the suitability and
cost of equipment or the choice of process. In some cases, clients rely
unduly on feasibility studies prepared by suppliers of equipment and l.ADB
makes too little effort to check on the objectivity of these studies. The
appointment of Mr. Nathan, who has experience in industrial management in
developing countries, to the position of Technical Advisor, can be expected
to substantially improve EADB's perfornance in procurement evaluation.
3.30      Each draft appraisal report is considered by a Staff Appraisal
Committee, chaired by the Chief of Operations and including the 'Tanagers
of the Promotion, Project Appraisal and Project Supervision divisions as
well as the Director of Research and Planning, the Technical Advisor and
the Legal Officer. The project is presented by the appraisal team leader
and critically examined by all participants. Once a project is approved
by the Staff Appraisal Committee, it is sent to the Management Advisory
Committee, a smaller group of EADB's Department heads chaired by the Di-
rector General.  Most recommendations to the Board on investment terms
and conditions are formulated by the Director General and the Chief of
Operations.
3.31      The Supervision division has been in existence only a few months
and has not yet had an opportunity to implement the follow-up procedures
outlined in the operations manual. The procedures, as outlined, are ade-
quate. A full report on each customer is called for once a year, after
audited financial statements have been received. Quarterly reports are re-
quired from each client.  Project supervision probably depends too heavily
on data supplied by clients, some of whom do not yet have the management
reporting systems needed to produce the information requested by EADB.
Brief monthly reports are prepared which will complement EADB's annual re-
views. Supervision visits are scheduled whenever required. In the case
of projects under construction, disbursements are often preceded by visits
to verify progress made in plant construction.
3.32      One of EADB's normal conditions of investment is that it be re-
presented on the client's board of directors. Most clients accept this, so
EADB's Management is able to follow their progress through board meetings
as well as through supervision reports. Since EADB does not have too many
customers its staff has been able to attend to Board representations, but
eventually this may become a burden. EADB will then have to select the
clients on whose board it will be represented. In the meantime, it is
gaining a broader understanding of the East African business community
through board representations.



- 13 -
3.33      EADB has clearly laid down disbursement procedures which require
customers to present evidence that approved investments are actually being
made. These procedures, if supported by checks on the performance of con-
tractors in terms of quantity and quality, would be adequate for the purpose.
Each individual disbursement is approved by at least three senior staff mem-
bers.
IV. OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Operations
4.01      EADB's yearly operations up to December 31, 1971 are summarized
in Annex 5. Total approvals were Rs 123.0 million on that date while com-
mitments where only Rs 75.1 million. This lag has been due to delays in
obtaining complementary financing for some projects and to management diffi-
culties in implementing others. In some cases, EADB may have approved projects
before they were mature for implementation. Disbursements also lagged up to
the middle of 1971 but have improved since then. Total disbursements were
equivalent to 78% of commitments at the end of 1971.
4.02      A large proportion of EADB's clients are parastatal (i.e. majority
government-owned) enterprises. They sponsored 6 out of the 16 investments
committed to the end of 1971. Somewhat over 40% of the total financing com-
mitted by EADB up to then was granted to such enterprises. The remaining 60%
was for projects sponsored by resident Asian and European investors (some of
them East African citizens) or by foreigners.
4.03      The country distribution of approved investments on December 31,
1971 was: Kenya 29%, Tanzania 33% and Uganda 38%.  This distribution, on
an approval basis, is reasonably close to the differential formula. On a
commitment basis operations in Uganda have lagged, and the distribution
was Kenya 46%, Tanzania 33% and Uganda 21%. As stated earlier (see foot-
note to paragraph 3.05), the Charter does not clearly indicate whether the
differential formula is to be met on an approval, commitment or disburse-
ment basis; the matter will probably not be clarified until the end of
EADB's first five years of operation, in July 1973.
4.04      About 53% of the total cost of projects financed by EADB was in
foreign exchange. New equity contributions financed about 29% of total proj-
ect costs, suppliers' credits about 24%, EADB about 13% and other sources 29%.
4.05      EADB had committed only two equity investments up to the end of
1971, representing only 5% of its portfolio and 2.5% of net worth. This
small equity portfolio reflects, to some extent, inhibitions imposed by the
Charter limit on such operations. Only one guarantee transaction has been
undertaken, for She. 1.3 million, or 1.7% of commitments. A guarantee com-
mission of 1% p.a. is charged.
4.06      A list containing summarized information for all projects approved
and committed by EADB up to the end of 1971 is at Annex 6. The location of
EADB's projects are shown on the map. EADB's financing has tended to go to
industries engaged in the production of intermediate and basic goods. Thus,



- 14 -
as of the end of 1971, 30% of the value of commitments were to the metal pro-
ducts industry, and another 30% to the paper and packaging industry.  Indus-
tries producing consumer goods received another 20% of total investments and
the processing of agricultural products for export received 15%. So far most
of EADB's projects have been aimed at national rather than regional or export
markets. Several of the projects will have sufficient capacity to serve the
regional market as well, however; and EADB hopes to increase its support for
regional projects.
4.07      EADB has committed a Government guaranteed loan to ICDC of Kenya
for Shs. 5.2 million, to enable it to finance six investments in medium
sized industries. Each project financed was reviewed by EADB. ICDC has
agreed to repay EADB's loan over 12 years, including 4 of grace.
4.08      EADB's average repayment period for loans has been 9-1/2 years.
The median size of investment is Shs. 4.7 million and the largest invest-
ment in a single project amounted to 8% of EADB's paid-in capital and re-
serves. Most loans granted by EADB to date are secured by a first charge
on fixed assets. EADB has also obtained guarantees from sponsors for 35%
of its loan commitments.
4.09      Interest rates have been negotiated in each individual case, rang-
ing from 8.0% to 9.0% per annum. EADB's management is now considering the
use of a single interest rate for all loan investments, which is expected to
be 9%. A 1% commitment fee is charged on amounts not disbursed according to
a client's projected loan disbursement schedule. EADB plans to institute a
1% commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of approved loans.
4.10      About 20% of EADB's loans have been denominated in foreign exchange,
the remainder in Shillings.
4.11      EADB has co-operated closely with other financial institutions in
the region, especially government-owned development corporations. Of its 24
approved investments, half are being financed jointly with national develop-
ment corporations, four with CDC - sponsored development finance companies,
and three with IPS. EADB has also had a joint financing with the African
Development Bank and with IFC.
Financial Structure
4.12      Summarized balance sheets up to December 31, 1971 are shown in
Annex 7.  EADB's newness is reflected in its financial structure.  Short-
term investments were 1.4 times loan and equity investments outstanding on
December 31, 1971. Borrowings were insignificant.
Investments
4.13      Short-term investments are well managed.  They are mostly in the
form of call and time deposits with commercial banks and yielded 8.4%, on
average, in 1971. The bulk of these deposits is with foreign banks. EADB
holds large foreign currency balances because half the capital contributions



- 15 -
made by Partner States were denominated in foreign currencies. Management
has thought it convenient to maintain these balances in foreign currencies
until required for operational purposes because of higher returns in European
short-term money markets and to avo4d exchange risks.
4.14      Since grace periods granted by EADB on its project loans have
averaged about two and a half years, no part of its portfolio has yet become
due, and it is too early to judge its quality.
Profitability
4.15      Summarized income statements up to December 31, 1971, m,Iay be found
in Annex 8. During 1971 profit from operations was equivalent to 3.7% of
average net worth. (EADB is tax exempt.) This low return is the result of
low leverage and high administrative expenses, which were 3.1% of average
assets in 1971. The main profit and loss account items, as a percentage
of average assets, have evolved as follows since EADB started operations:
(She. million)
1968       1969        1970        1971
Gross Income              5.5         7.9        8.0          7.0
Financial Expenses         -           -          0.2        0.2
Administrative Exp. /1  3.3           2.8         2.9        3.1
Operatirg Profit          2.2         5.1        4.9         3.7
/1   Including depreciation.
EADB's profitability should increase as its leverage improves, provided its
lending rates are maintained at least at the level of its earnings on short-
term investments, and its administrative expenses are kept in check.
4.16      No dividends have been paid to date and no dividend policy has yet
been established. It is probable that the Partner States will not require
dividenids from EADB, but some of its other shareholders will expect a return
on their investment. No dividend payments are planned in the near future.
Auditors
4.17      The Charter provides that EADB shall have an internal auditor, who
has not been appointed yet. The accounting system is simple, and does not
provide for automatic checks on its day-to-day operations. Some improvements
could be made to meet the needs of EADB as its volume of business increases.
4.18      Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company has been appointed as EADB's
external auditors. A short-form audit is prepared once yearly. The auditors
expressed no reservations concerning EADB's accounts. EADB has agreed to
request its auditors to prepare long-form audit reports.



- 16 -
V. PROSPECTS
EADB's Role in the East African Community
5.01      EADB has an important role to play in the East African Community.
It is the only regional financial institution in a position to gauge overall
demand and be up-to-date on competitive circumstances in all three Partner
States. Its primary function should, therefore, be to support regional in-
vestment projects, not only by providing finance, but also by bringing to-
gether foreign and local investors. As stated earlier, EADB may play an
important role in financing and helping implement Community sponsored proj-
ects in the motor vehicle, chemical and steel industries.
5.02      Apart from its own investments in regional projects EADB may be
able, through its knowledge of regional markets, to convince its clients to
complement rather than compete with manufacturers in other Partner States,
thus realizing economies of scale and minimizing duplication of investment.
5.03      EADB can also act as an impartial appraiser of projects.  Maniy
East African industrial projects are promoted by national development cor-
porations; they are often part of a government-determined development plan,
and the national corporations sponsor them with little regard to financial,
technical or economic criteria. EADB, though an entity of the three Partner
States, is not controlled by any single government, and thus can better in-
sist on sound criteria for its investments.
Projections
5.04      In considering the possible effect of the differential investment
formula on EADB's operations, it seems that Uganda may constitute a con-
straint to EADB's level of operations, as its market is the smallest of the
three. The estimated level of manufacturing investment in Uganda is Shs.
150 million in 1972, increasing by about 10% per annum thereafter. On the
assumption that EADB will finance approximately 18% of this total, based in
part on EADB's knowledge of industrial projects now being prepared, EADB's
commitments in 1972 would amount to Shs. 27 million each in Uganda and
Tanzania and Shs. 16 million in Kenya, for a regional total of Shs. 70 mil-
lion. Total commitments are projected to increase to Shs. 90 million in 1973.
5.05      EADB's five-year projections of operations shown in Annex 9 assume
that the annual level of commitments will double over the average of 1970
and 1971. Though this is an optimistic forecast, EADB has a large number of
projects under study and a backlog of approved but not committed projects of
Sh. 48 million.
5.06      In order to cope with the larger volume of forecast business, EADB
plans to take on six additional East African professionals for the Operations
Department in 1972, three in 1973, and two each in 1974 and 1975, as well as
new professional staff in the Legal and Secretary's Office. These appoint-
ments, plus the present number and quality of expatriate and local staff,
should be sufficient to handle EADB's expected volume of business.



- 17 -
5.07      In the past 80% of the value of EADB's loans was in shillings, but
part of these amounts were used by EADB's clients to purchase foreign exchange
to finance imported (i.e. extra-regional) goods and services. EADB's manage-
ment forecasts that 70% of commitments from 1972 on will be to finance im-
ported goods and services.
Resource Requirements
5.08      At the end of 1971 EADB had uncommitted resources of Sh. 69.5 mil-
lion (see Annex 2). To the end of 1973 EADB is expected to commit Sh. 160
million, of which Sh. 112 million (equivalent to US$15.7 million) is expected
to be for the import component of projects, as shown in the following table:
(Shs. million)
of which:
Total      Import Component Local Component
Available, end 1971              69.5              -              69.5
less commitments 1972         (70.0)           (49.0)          (21.0)
plus cash generation 1972    10.4                               10.4
Available, end 1972               9.9            (49.0)           58.9
less commitments 1973         (90.0)           (63.0)          (27.0)
plus cash generation 1973    13.8                               13.8
Available, end 1973             (66.3)          (112.0)           45.7
(in U.S. $ million equivalent) (9.3)             (15.7)            6.4
Since EADB has not yet developed new sources of finance for the local com-
ponent of projects, wise management of its resources requires that it limit
the use of its paid-in capital and local currency cash generation to finan-
cing such requirements. These resources will be sufficient to meet the local
component cost of projects up to the end of 1973 but in the meantime EADB
will require US$15.7 million to finance the import component of projects.
5.09      EADB obtained a $2 million loan from the African Development
Bank early in 1972. It wishes to meet the remaining gap of US$13.7 mil-
lion for the foreign component of projects by loans from SIDA and the Bank.
SIDA appraised EADB at the same time as the Bank; a $5.2 million loan has
been negotiated and is due to become effective during the second semester of
1972.  One half of the loan may be used to finance the local component of
projects. Repayment is to be made over 25 years with 10 years of grace;
the interest charge is 2% per annum and a provision of the agreement will be
that gross income in excess of 4% per annum derived by EADB from the proceeds
of thie loan, will be set aside in a special fund which is to be used to fi-
nance foreign technical assistance to EADB for project preparation, promotion
and appraisal, technical assistance to African-owned enterprises and loans



- 18 -
or other forms of assistance to small-scale industries. EADB will still re-
quire $8.0 million to finance the import component of projects, over and
above the SIDA loan.
Projected Financial Results
5.10      EADB's projected cash-flow statements, balance sheets and income
statements up to December 31, 1976 are shown in Annexes 10, 11 and 12. An-
nex 13 contains a summary of the assumptions on which they are based.
5.11      Administrative expenses, as a percentage of average assets, are
expected to decrease from 3.1% per annum in 1971 to 2.0% per annum in 1974
and 1.3% per annum in 1976. Yearly provisions for bad investments were cal-
culated so as to bring the total of such provisions to 5% of the outstanding
portfolio; this level seems adequate. EADB's management is taking steps to
apply a single lending rate of 9% p.a., instead of individually negotiated
rates ranging from 8% to 9%. Nevertheless, the margin between borrowing and
lending rates remains quite narrow; and return on share capital, after pro-
visions, is expected to be no greater than 5.9% per annum in 1976. This is
not an unacceptably low return on share capital for a predominantly government-
owned bank such as EADB. While some further increase in its lending rate,
perhaps to 9.5%, would be reasonable, it is probably not feasible in the im-
mediate future in view of competitive conditions in East Africa.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Bank, EADB and National Institutions
6.01      EADB is a regional financial institution established and largely
owned by the Partner States of the East African Community. It is an integral
part of the structure of the Community and has been assigned an impor tant
role in carrying out its purposes. Its role in promoting industrial develop-
ment in the region can be very important if the Community functions as in-
tended by its founders. If the Community arrangements and relations should
deteriorate, EADB could still make a substantial constribution to the indus-
trial development of the region.
6.02      The Government of all three Partners of the East African Community
have recently requested that the Bank consider lending to existing or new de-
velopment institutions in their respective countries. These national DFCs
compete to some extent with EADB, but their operations should also be comple-
mentary (see paras. 5.01 - 5.03). Hence there is no reason why the Bank
should not consider, on the merits, lending both to EADB and to the national
institutions.



- 19 -
Recommendations
6.03      The Bank has been in close contact with EADB since it started op-
erations and has lent advice and assistance on several occasions. EADB is
creditworthy; it has developed its organization and its capabilities as a
financial institution, though further improvement should be expected. It
is recommended that a loan of US$8 million be extended to EADB so that it
may finance the import requirements of industrial projects to the end of
1973, passing on the exchange risk to its clients. A free limit of
US$300,000 is recommended, which would enable the Bank to monitor the ma-
jority of EADB's investments during its first few years of operation; the
aggregate free limit should be 30% of the Bank's loan, or US$2.4 million.
6.04      Since EADB has only been in operation for a comparatively short
period of time and has not had a chance to build up its portfolio and reach
an acceptable level of profitability, it is recommended that EADB be granted
concessional treatment with respect to the Bank's commitment fee.






Annex 1
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summarized Data on East African Development Finance Institutions
(to December 31, 1970)
Year                1/                   Number of   Commitments
Started     Portfolio_.  Number of        Projects    during 1970
operation   (Sh million)   Subsidiaries_. Supported   (Sh million)
Government-owned
Development Corporations
ICDC (Kenya)4/               1955            80.7           8              39        308-'
NDC (Tanzania)               1965           296.9          22              63        76. 4
UDC (Uganda)                 1952           317.8          23              39        3l.1:
Majority Foreign-owned
Development Finance
Companies
DFCK (Kenya)                 1963            48.6            -             28         3.0
TDFL (Tanzania)              1962            30.0                          38        104
DFCU (Uganda)                1964            35.7           _              26         1.4
IPS GroupW                   1963            18.2           2              38            6/
Regional Institutions
EADB                         1968            18.7            -             16        39.4
1/ Loan and equity portfolios.
2/ More than 50 percent owned.
3/  Projects assisted with term loans, guarantees or equity investments, including
subsidiaries.
4/  Data to June 30, 1970.
5/ Increase in portfolio.
6/ Disbursements.
DFCD
February 1, 1972



Annex 2
EAST AFRICANI DEVELOPMNT BANK
Resources Available for Commitment
as of December 31, 1971
(in million of Shs.)
Called-up capital                                           129.6
Reserves and retained earnings                               17.2
Borrowings in shillings, medium term                          7.4
Total Resources Available                              154.2
Investments Outstanding:
Loans (net)                                             55.2
Equity investments                                       2.6
Total Investments                                       57.8
Undisbursed Commitments                                      15.7 -
Fixed Assets                                                 11.2
Total Commitments                                            8L.7
Uncommitted Resources                                         69.5 -
154.2
1/ Excluding guarantees for 9hs.1.3 million
DFCD
June 1972.



Annex 3
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Statement of Operating Policies
(Approved by the Board of Directors on May 4, 1972)
i) EADB's investments in any single enterprise, whether
in the form of equity, loan or guarantee, will not
normally exceed 20% of its own paid-in capital and
free reserves;
ii) EADB's investment in an enterprise, whether in the
form of equity investment, loan or guarantee, will
not normally exceed 50% of the total net assets of
the enterprise;
iii) In making equity investments, EADB will avoid having
a controlling interest and the responsibility of
managing an enterprise. EADB will not normally sub-
scribe to more than 25% of an enterprise's share
capital;
iv) EADB will adequately protect itself against foreign
exchange risks in its borrowing and lending operations;
v) EADB loans will not normally be granted for periods
exceeding fifteen years;
vi) EADB's Management and auditors shall critically
examine EADB's portfolio at least once yearly, and
recommend to the Board what amounts should be added
to provisions for bad and doubtful investments.
DFCD
May 1972






EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
SEPTEMBER 1971
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTOR - GENERAL         _
(I. Simba)
DEPUTY DIRECTOR - GENERAL
(J. G. Shomolla)
SECRETARY                 TREASURER                 LEGAL OFFICER                CHIEF OF OPERATIONS          TECHNICAL ADVISOR
(H. KaIura)              (M. Gujarathi*)            (D. Mulira)                  (L. Berring*)                (R. Lotz*)
ACCOUNTANT             MANAGER PROJECT                                                           REGIONAL           MANAGER RESEARCH          PBI  EAIN
PREPARATION AN D       MANAGER PROJECT        MANAGER PROJECT            MANAGERS            AND PLANNING              PBI  EAIN
(J. Wamunza)           PROMOTION              APPRAISAL               SUPERVISION               (W  Mada            (H.Nathan*)               OFFICER
(E. Rebeling*)         (M. Ngatunga)          (I. Baruti)                (S. Kosozi)        (A.Monte;ro*)             (D. Selbukirna)
ADMINISTRATIVE           ACCOUNTS OFFICERS                                 PROJECT OFFICERS        PROJECT OFFICERS                                SENIOR PROJECT
PERSONNEL               AND CLERKS                                         (7)                     (3)                                             OFFICER
z
*Expatriate                                                                                                                                                                                     Z
World Bank-6206(2R)






EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summary of Operations 1969-1971
(millions of Shs.)
Equity                       T O T A L
Loans   Investments  Guarantees   No.          Amount
1969
Approved                36.9          -           -          10         36.9
Committed                8.5          _           _          3           8.5
Disbursed                3.9          -           -           2          3.9
1970
Approved                34.2         3.8         1.3          7         39.3
Committed               35.6         3.8          -           7         39.4
Disbursed               14.2         0.6          _           6         14.8
1971
Approved                46.8          -           -           7         46.8
Committed               25.9          -          1.3          6         27.2
Disbursed               37.4         2.0          -           7         39.4
Total to 12/31/71
Approved               117.9         3.8         1.3         24        123.0
Committed               70.0         3.8         1.3        16          75.1
Disbursed               55.5         2.6          -          15         58.1
DFCD
June 1972






ZAST 'FI"Lhui DEVELOPMEVIT BUIK
Projects Approved and Committed to December 31, 1971
Terms
Grace +        Dat.es                                 Other
Instru-  Amount   Inter- Repayment Approval                                Institutional
ProJect                              ment   (Shs.- T.)  est    (Years)       Commitment          Sponsor          Investors
KENYA
1. Industrial & Commercial Development 5orp. Loan        5.2     86    4+ Pi    3/69       2/71
-for onlending to                          (guar-
a. Resins                       Sh.O.6 Mn  anteed)                                                  Foreign
b. Hamd tools                   Sh.2.0 Mn                                                           Foreign
c. Plastic tableware            Sh.O.l Mn                                                           Foreign
d. Metal containers             Sh.1.4 Mn                                                           Foreign
e. Ceramics                     Sh.0.4 Mn                                                           Foreign
f. Groundnut Processing         Sh.0.7 Mn                                                           Resident Expatriate
2. Metal lox Co. (7eatal containers)           Loan      6.o      8.rj  2+ 5   12/69       2/70         Foreign
3.Panafrican Paner Mills (pulp
and Paper)                              Loan       7.1     9%    2+12    4/70        9/70        Foreign              IF'C,ADB,
&Quity    3.6                                                                DFCK,ICDC
Total    10.7
4.Plastic & Rubber Industries (Shoec)          Loan      1.0      8.5/  1+ It   4/70      12/70         IPS
.Equity    .2
Total     1.2
5.EMCO Steelworks (hot rolled steel            Loan      6.o      9%    3+ 7    9/70       3/71         Resident Expatriate
products) !/
6.Kenya Toray Mills (Synthetic textiles)       Loan      4.8    8-    3+ 7    3/71         6/71         Foreign
(guaran-                                                                         V 
Total Commitmensf  /                     teed)  
Total Approvrals`                                 3309                                                                     0%
1/   &xcluding Guarantee of'Sh. 1.3 !4n.



Terms
Grace+          Dates                                Other
Instru- imount    :nter-Repayment  ipproval                                 Institutional
*iProject                               ment  (Jhs.Mn)    est   (Years;)          ommitment          6ponsor         Investors
T U G?AIfl)A\
1 -J riean C 3rarnmCl                           L,o-n       2.0 P1l     1.5+ 5       2/69    1/70       IJDC                    IID,IPS
(0.r75 Guaranteed)                                                                    DFCIJ
2.Agricultuiral Enterprisec                     Loan
(Tea Factory)                             (G,uar.lJteed)  4.5    WI     3+ 7    3/69    12/69       UDC                     1DB
3.Ugma Steel (Agricultural Implements)         Loan        1.5    9%      2+ 5.5  2/69       3/69      Resident Expatriate   DFCIJ
4.TTganda Tea Growers Association               Loan
(Thro tea factories)                    (Guaranteed)  3.2    8ib    5+ 7    3/69    11/69          Uganda Tea Growlers   UK,Coffee D1--
*4ssociation           versif.Fund
5.Musicraft (Radio Assembly)                    Loan
(0.3 G'iuaranteed)    1.0    9%   2.5+ 6    9/69    11/69       Resident Expatriate
6.1JDC (Small industries)                       Loar        1.5    8%      ?        6/70       -       UDC
(Guaranteed)
7.Stteel, Corp.                                 Loan       20.0    9%      3+ 7    3/71        -       Resident Expatriate  ITDC
8.Papeo (paper)                                 L.an
(3,uaranteed)   3.2    8%      3+ 8    2/71      5/71      Resident Expatriate  IJDC
9.TTv-Lnda Bottlers (Soft DrinkF)               Loan        5.5    9%      3+ 7   11/71        -       Resident Expatriate
il.Mpanga  Tea Factory                           Loan        3.6   8]e      4+ 8   11/71        -        Uganda Tea Growers
Association
11.0hgastat (envelopes)                          Loan        0.97   9%   0.5+4.5  11/71         -        IPS                       0N
Trotal Commitments                                       1540
Total Approvals                                          46.97



Terms
Grace+        Dates                                 Other
Instru- Amolmt    Inter-Repayment -Approval                              Institutional
-Project                               ment (Shs.Mn.)    est   (Years)        Commitment          Sponsor         Investors
T!INZANIA
I.Raleigh Cycles                               Loan
(0.35 Guaranteed)  l.75    8%    2+ 5       2/69      -            NDC
2.General Tyre                                 Loan       10.0     8%    2+ 5      3/69    11/70           NTDC
3 .Mafi.a Coconut                                Doan      1.9     8%    4+ 8      9/69      6/70          Resident      TDFL, 1111FCO
Expatriate
4.Fiberboard                                    Loan       6.0     8%    4+ 8      6/70       -            TTNICO
(2.4~ Gulara:eed)
5.Tanzania Bag                                  Loan       7.6     8%    3+10      9/70    12/70           NDC
(3.0 Guaranteed)
6.Aluminum Africa (Steel pipes)                 Loan       5.0     9%    2+ 5    11/70       6/71          Resident
Expatriate
7.Wyan-a Salt Yines                             Loan       8.6    84      3+10     3/71       -            N1DC
Total Commitments                                 24.5o
Total Aprrnvals                                  40.85
East African Total
Oommitmnnts 1/                                 73.80
CtD\
1/ Excluding guarantee of S0h.1.3 Min
DFCD
F-br1ary 1, 1972






Annex 7
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summarized Balance Sheets 1968 - 1971
(in miUions of Shs.)
19682/   196 2/   19702/  19713
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                                  0.3      0.4      1.0       1.1
Short-Term Investments
Deposits                                     52.5     78.3      97.0     72.0
Government Securities                        20.5     20.0      20.2      9.6
Loans                                            -       3.9      18.1     5-
Equity Investments                               -        -        0.6      2.6
Special Reserves (Provisions for bad investments)-        -       (0.1)    (0.3)
Sundry Debtors and Accrued Earnings             1.2      2.6       3.2      3.7
Fixed Assets (net)                              0.7      2.4       4.5     11.2
Total Assets                                 75.2    107.6   144.5    155.4
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Sundry Creditors + Accrued Charges              0.2      0.3       0.5      0.6
Loans in Local Currencies                       2.2      3.4       4.1      9.4
Loans in Foreign Currencies                      -        -         -        -
Total Liabilities                             2.4      3.7      4.6      10.0
Paid-in Capital                                72.0     98.4    128.2    128.2
Revenue Reserves                                0.8      5.5      11.7     17.2
Net Worth                                    72.8    103.9    139.9    145,4
Total Liabilities and Net Worth              75.2    107.6    144.5    154.4
Contingent Liabilities                           -        -       1.3       1.3
Overall Debt/Equity Ratio:                0o03/1   0.o4/1   0.o4/1   o.o6/1
1/ Year ending December 31.
2/ Audited.
U/ Unaudited.
DFCD
June 1972



Annex 8
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summarized Income Statements 1968-1971 V
(in '000 Shs.)
1968      1969       1970      19712/
INCOME
From Investments                         2,079     7,248)    10,072    (10,043
Other, including comndssions              --         --         --          477
Total Income                         2,079      7,248      10,072     10,520
Less:
Financial Expenses                        --          81         183        226
Administrative Expenses                  1,212     2,427       3,448      4,o60
Depreciation                                44       112         240        668
Total Expenses                       1,256      2,620      3,871       4,954
Profit from Operation                      823     4,628       6,201      5,566
Non-recurring profits less losses         --        --           --          1 ,
Total Profit 3/before Provisions           823     4,628       6,9201     5,676
Provisions                                --        --            81        189
Total Profit after Provisions              823     4,628       6i120      5,487
Operating Profit before Provisions
on Average Net Worth                      3.5%      5.3%        5.1%       3.9%
Total Profit after Provisions
on Average Net Worth                      3.5%      5.3%        5.0%       3.8%
1/ Year ending December 31.
T/ Unaudited.
37 Tax Free.
DFCD
June 1972



Annex g
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Approvals. Commitments and Disbursements!/   1972 - 1976
(in millions of Shs.)
1972     1973     1974      1975     1976
APPROVALS:     Domestic Currency:  Loans    22.0        28.0    34.0      40.0     46.0
Equity    2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
TOTAL    24.0      30.0    36.o      42.0     48.0
Foreign Currency    Loans    56.0       70.0    84.o      98.0    112.0
TOTAL APPROVALS     8.0      100.0   120.0    140.0    160.0
=  =               -~~~~~~~~
COMMITMENTS:  Domestic Currency:  Loans    19.0         25.0    31.0     37.0      43.0
t      Equity    2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
TOTAL    21.0      27.0    33.0      39.0     45.0
Foreign Currency : Loans    49.0        63.0    77.0      91.0    105.0
TOTAL COMMITMENTS     7040       90.0   110.0    130.0    150.0
DISBURSEMENTS: Domestic Currency:  Loans    21.2        22.5    28.o     34.0      40.0
"'t     "       Equity    2.0        2.0     2.0       2.0      2.0
TOTAL    23.2      24.5    30.0      36.o     42.0
Foreign Currency:   Loans    44.7       56.0    70.0      84.o     98.0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS      67.9      80.5   100.0    120.0    140.0
I/  See :Mnnex 13 for main assumptions made
DFCD
Febrioary 1, 1972



EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Cash-Flow 1972-1976
(in millions of shillings)
Sources                                        1972          1973         1974         1975       1976
Loan recoveries                                 0.6           2.6         10.0         19.4       30.7
Profit before provisions                        7.1           8.1          9.7         12.6       15.7
Depreciation                                    0.7           1.1          1.1          1.0        1.0
New share capital                               1.9           2.0          2.0          2.0        2.0
Loans in shillings                              2.2           1.1           -            -          -
Foreign currency loans                         23.2          55.5         85.0        100.5      119.0
Total Resources                           35.7         70.4         107.8       135.5       168.4
Applications
Loan disbursements:  shillings                 21.2          22.5         28.0         34.0       40.0
foreign currencies        44.7         56.0         70.0         84.0       98.0
Equity investments                              2.0           2.0          2.0          2.0        2.0
Short-term investments and cash               (37.7)        (15-1)         3.2          7.7       1601
Fixed assets                                    4.9           4.5          0.2           -         0.2
Repayment of borrowings                         0.6           0.5          4.4          7.8       12.1
Total Applications                        35.7         70.4         107.8       135.5       168.4
DFCD
April 1972



EAST AFRICAN DE V&PMENT BANK
Projected Balance Sheets 1972-1976
(in millions of Shildlngs)
1971       1972        1973       1974       1975       1976
Assets                                  (actual)-
Cash and short-term investments           82.7         42.9       27.8       31.0       38.7       54.8
Loans                                     55.5        120.5      196.4       284.4      383.0      490.3
Provisions                                 (0.3)        (6.1)     (10.1)     (14-5)     (19.4)     (24.7)
Equity investments                         2.6          4.6        6.6        8.6        10.6       12.6
Sundry debtors, accrued earnings           3.7          3.7        3.7        3.7        3.7         3.7
Fixed assets (net)                        11.2         15.5       18.9        18.0       17.0       16.2
Total assets                        155.4        181.1      243.3      331.2       433.6      552.9
Liabilities
&unxry creditors and accrued charges       o.6          0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2
Loans: shillings                            9.4        11.0       11.6         8.4        5.8        3.9
foreign currencies                   -         23,2       78.7       162.5      257.8      366.6
Paid-in capital                          128.2        130.1      132.1      134.1       136.1      138.1
Reserves                                  17.2         16.6        20.7       26.0       33.7       44.1
Net worth                                             I14.W7                   I   1     6 ".      I8g.
Total liabilities                   155.4        181.1      243.3       331.2      433.6      552.9
Term debt/equity ratio                   0.06/1       0.2/1      0.6/1       1.1/1      1.6/1      2.0/1
1/ Unaudited.
DFCD
Jur 3 1972



EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Statements of Income 1972-1976
(in millions of Shillings)
1971 1/    1972     1973      1974     1975     1976
(actual)
Income from operations
Short-term investments                              (            3.8       1.9      1.4      1.5      2.8
Loans                                               (10.0        8.8      15.1     22.8     31.7     40.0
Commissions, other charges and dividends B            0.5        1.8      2.0       2.6      3.0      3.3
Gross income                                    10.5       14.4     19.0      26.8     36.2     46.1
less:
Financial expenses                                    0.2        2.h      5.7      11.2     17.3     23.7
Administrative expenses                               4.0        4.2       4.1      4.8      5.3      5.7
Depreciation                                          0.7        0.7      1.1       1.1      1.0      1.0
Profit before provisions                        5-6         7TI                                 1.9.7  1.  ig7
Provisions                                            0.2        5.8      4.0       4.4      4.9      5.3
Net profit from operations                       5.4 -/     1.3      4.1       5.3      7.7     l0.4
Profit before provisions, on average net worth (%)         3.9        4.9       5.4      6.2      7.6      8.9
Profit after provisions, on average net worth (%)          3.8        0.9       2.7      3.4      4.7      5.9
I/ Unaudited.
2/  Not including non-recurring profits, less losses, of Shs. 0.1 million.
DFCD
June 1972



Annex 13
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projection Assumptions
1. Projected Approvals, Commitment and Disbursements - (Annex 9)
- Half the amounts approved in one period will be cormmitted in the same
period, the other half during the following period.
- Disbursements are assumed to take place as follows: 1/4 during year of
approval, 1/2 during the following year and 1/4 the third year.
- Equity investments: Shs. 2 million per year.
- Rate of approval growth: Shs. 20 million per annum,
2.  Projected Balance Sheets (Annex 11)
- Average period of loans granted: 10 years including 2 of grace.
- Provision for bad investments to be 5% of portfolio at the end of each
period.
- Increase in fixed assets up to 1974 due to improvements in office building
in Kampala.
- Lending operations in local currencies are to be financed out of internal
sources only.
- Average period of foreign loans obtained: 10 years including 2 of grace.
- No dividends to be paid.
3.  Projected Statements of Income (Annexl2)
- Income from short-term investments projected at 6.5% p.a.
- Income from long-term loans projected at 9.0% p.a.
- Financial expenses estimated at 7 1/4% p*a. interest cost and commitment
charges of 0.75% p. a.
- Administrative expenses remain at budgeted level of about Shs. 4.2
million p.a. until 1973, thereafter increasing by about 10% p.a.
DFCD
February 1, 1972



Annex 14
EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Selected Data on Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
and Total East Africa
Kenya    Tanzania    Uganda    East Africa
Area ('000 sq. kms.)                 583         937       236         1,756
Population (millions, 1970)           11.1        12.5       9.8          33.4
Current population growth rate
(% p. a. )                3.3         2.7       3.1           3.0
Annual per capita income
($ equivalent, 1969)               132         95       118           112
GDP growth rate (% p.a.)               6.  /       5.4-/     5.6           5.8 4
Manufacturing contribution
to GDP (%, 1970)                    11.0        7.9        8.7 -       10.0
Manufacturing sector growth rate          1/          2/     6             8
(% p. a.)                      7.5-      12.9        6.0          8.6
Employment in manufacturing              56
('000)                      70 -        33-       48 -151 
Balance of intra EAC trade
in manufacturing d/
Kenya                          -       205        117          322
Tanzania                   (205)       -          (11)        (216)
Uganda                     (117)        11         -           (106)
1/ 1965-1969
2/ 1964-1970
3T/ 1961-1969
1i/ Approximation
&/ 1968
g/ 1966
7/ Approximation, 1970
F/ 1970, millions of Shs.



s u D A                                                                                       ..  ETHMDPDA
.*.        ,        .... LAKE
* V                          RB/DOE F
o  !  .Aruo                                                                                            EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
t .Okocllo                                      t                                              . Location  of Projects  Appoved
Pokea* ch'  s;IroRra                                                                                  to  December  31, 1971
TE64+ .A              Po                            kwoch vXcrEvo >8qK PA EADB headquarters
a LAdKE                                                         A     LEEfi>T * * McSLnA S  SMLL I-DUSPRIES             *        EADB offices
-3 LAKEALBERT              Masids                    IG        o       AI01S1L
M*......... International Boundaries
- ..     IIIIIIIRailways
KITALE --    4 3 (   PLA PP                  Railways under consideration
Wom  I                           -L,,~~~ras  ANt PAPER  ____ _Ro ads5
XK22s                   C'                                                              Eseru _______                          Lake services
444  Is  tN.tA   a~'       EDORET                                            at
PEoTE E    LO                 .                             WBLTERE  0 a01a3   THOMSON'S
a    ~~~~~~  a          SUMLI ~~~~~~~~~~~~FALLS                     0Meru                      4
* LAKE EOWARo            ,                                                                     0 L       Gilg'l KEmbu METAL CO ITAINERS
*          A0 Mbara  ACRICOLLTSL   tsoosho
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. :.X;   ........                                                  K      -      EA      I                 Y           A
*--   * *--  *,    ~ ~~~BUK1OBi,      Cro                              *.NAIRO%s                                                  PATC CTAR
BKOBA\               -             Ar Musomc                                                                SMA  1 HOT ROLLED STEEL
R WA MDA  *embon'
KLAKE
I /Vt
.......                             'MWANZA                                  rL.orron              *-.        tZ                               tA
%.'                                                                                                           G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAII~~~~~~A-E-SLA
To Capper Belt                                                S~~L'* Cy
P       ..            FEROR\W SLCr Us/  na/rU,u,
pnuubrn rarpo    tt s/ero A
7)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
|ILOMRTE9S       -.VA S A                                                                                               -AL 8AGS
M.E5                      t* CYCLES TIRES
.NUA   972                                          irR Ko,doo                                                                                                               7
Isl                  _ 8s B            O     R    A                                                                               \,,,, 8e,<K,T.o  ODR
r   * W  >   Jg   e                                                                           Korogwet .        }          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEM8A 1.
^ * -   >   c}                                1                      D~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOOO?-  DZANZBAR
C)   s_        I      Mpo,Ida'
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                                              -E_S-Uvne5   XSALAAM
**tfi              ~~~~      ~~LAKE  |                      4     IRINGAJ               K,d.tu}sEu
/                      /          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IfokooO_e                                14AfiA t,
, -e"" 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kongolos,  rf0  >Cr~
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mpuuu*., .#^|s  pngo
T . Copp.;S, Porlt1<>rsN
B"'k "'fidieAlre <ff ...                                                                          F, tNzr                                              LINDI 0      <
0     S0    100    IS0    200    250    300                 .7            *                                                  lMTWARA
KILOMIETERS                                .                V *NASA 5,.
IS  20          o    .......
JANUARY 1972                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 3777



