                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00002834



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-82570)



                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

              IN THE AMOUNT OF EQUIVLENT TO US$150 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                 THE STATE OF SERGIPE

                                            FOR A

                   DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN IN SUPPORT OF

                  SERGIPE DEVELOPMENT THROUGH INCLUSION

                                     December 24, 2015




Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2014)

                             Currency Unit Real (R$)
                               US$1.00R$2.0205


                                FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1- December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BNDES      National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de
           Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social)
CADIN      State Registry of Unpaid Credits (Cadastro Informativo dos Créditos Não
           Quitados com o Estado)
CadÚnico   Single Registry for Social Programs of the Federal Government (Cadastro
           Único para Programas Sociais do Governo Federal)
CEAC       Citizens’ Attention Center (Centro de Atendimento ao Cidadão)
COHIDRO    Company for Development of Water Resources and Irrigation (Companhia
           de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Hídricos e Irrigação)
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DPL        Development Policy Loan
EMDAGRO    State Company for Agriculture and Livestock Development (Empresa de
           Desenvolvimento Agropecuário de Sergipe)
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
FUNDEB     Fund for Maintenance and Development of Basic Education and
           Valorization of Education Professionals (Fundo de Manutenção e
           Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica e de Valorização dos Profissionais
           Da Educação)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoS        Government of Sergipe
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBGE       Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de
           Geografia e Estatística)
IDEB       Basic Education Development Index (Índice de Desenvolvimento da
           Educação Básica)
i-Gesp     Integrated Financial Management Information System (Sistema Integrado de
           Gestão Pública)
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IOF        Taxon Financial Transactions (Imposto sobre Operações de Crédito,
           Câmbio e Seguro ou Relativas a Títulos e Valores Mobiliários)
IPEA       Institute for Economic Analysis (Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada)
IPSAS      International Public Sector Accounting Standards
LRF        Fiscal Responsibility Law (Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal)
NCR        Net Current Revenue
NPL        Non-Performing Loans
PFM      Public Financial Management
PNAD     National Household Survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicílios)
PNAIC    Literacy at the Right Age Program (Programa Nacional de Alfabetização na
         Idade Certa)
PPA-P    Multi-Year Participatory Plan (Plano Plurianual Participativo)
SEAGRI   State Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural Development (Secretaria de
         Estado da Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural)
SEED     State Secretariat of Education (Secretaria de Estado da Educação)
SES      State Secretariat of Health (Secretaria de Estado da Saúde)
SEFAZ    State Secretariat of Finance (Secretaria da Fazenda)
SEIDES   State Secretariat of Inclusion, Protection and Social Development
         (Secretaria de Estado da Inclusão, Assistência e Desenvolvimento Social)
SEPLAG   State Secretariat of Planning, Budget and Management (Secretaria de
         Estado de Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão)
SEPM     Special State Secretariat of Women (Secretaria Especial de Políticas para
         as Mulheres)
SERASA   Private enterprise that collects and analyzes personal economic and financial
         information to support credit-related decisions created by banks (Centralização
         de Serviços dos Bancos S/A)
SIGA     Integrated Management School System (Sistema Integrado de Gestão
         Acadêmica)
SUAS     Social Assistance System (Sistema Único de Assistência Social)
SUS      Unified Health System (Sistema Único de Saúde)




                Vice President:         Jorge Familiar Calderon
                Country Director:       Martin Raiser
                Practice Manager:       Daniel Dulitzky
                Task Team Leader:       Tania Dmytraczenko
                ICR Team Leader:        Ezaú Pontes
                ICR Primary Author:     Isabella Bablumian
                                                  BRAZIL
                                    Sergipe Development through Inclusion

A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i 
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i 
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... iii 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... vi 
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... vi 
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1 
   1.1 Context at Appraisal ................................................................................................. 1 
   1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
   approved) ........................................................................................................................ 3 
   1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
   and Reasons/Justification ................................................................................................ 4 
   1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved).............................. 4 
   1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable) ........................................................................ 8 
   1.6 Other significant changes.......................................................................................... 9 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 9 
   2.1 Program Performance ............................................................................................... 9 
   2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation Government commitments ..................... 9 
   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ........ 10 
   2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any) ............................................... 12 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12 
   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ........................................... 12 
   3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ............................................... 14 
   3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ................................................................ 21 
   3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .............................................. 22 
   3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ....... 23 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 23 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 24 
   5.1 Bank Performance................................................................................................... 24 
   5.2 Borrower Performance ............................................................................................ 25 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 26 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 27 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support / Supervision Processes............... 29 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 31 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 31 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 32 
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners / Stakeholders ........................ 43 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 44 
Annex 7. Table: Proposed Policy Actions for Sergipe Development through Inclusion . 45 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Development Policies
Country:                Brazil                  Program Name:
                                                                          for the State of Sergipe
Program ID:             P129652                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-82570
ICR Date:               12/24/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:                 STATE OF SERGIPE
Original Total
                        USD 150.00M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 150.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 150.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda - SERGIPE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/08/2012     Effectiveness:          10/03/2013
Appraisal:            10/01/2012     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/21/2013     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                12/31/2014            12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       20                  25
General education sector                                               25                  17
Health                                                                 40                  17
Other social services                                                                      16
Sub-national government administration                                 15                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                      25                  17
Gender                                                                                     16
Managing for development results                                       15
Other public sector governance                                                             25
Other rural development                                                                    25
Population and reproductive health                                     40                  17
Rural policies and institutions                                        20

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon               Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel                     Deborah L. Wetzel
Practice
                           Daniel Dulitzky                       Joana Godinho
Manager/Manager:
Program Team Leader:       Tania Dmytraczenko                    Tania Dmytraczenko
ICR Team Leader:           Ezau Pontes
ICR Primary Author:        Isabella Bablumian



                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Development Policy Objective of the proposed operation is to improve public sector
management, and expand access to quality public services and economic opportunities for
the extremely poor in the State of Sergipe. The proposed operation is fully consistent with
the overarching objective of the CPS 2012-2015, and with the strategic objectives of
enhancing the efficiency of public investments, improving quality and expand provision of
public services, and promoting regional economic development. It is also fully aligned with
the Government of Sergipe's goal to eradicate poverty, as outlined in the Multiyear
Participatory Plan (PPA-P) 2012-2015.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                   Increase responsiveness to citizen complaints in the Citizen Service Centers
Indicator 1 :
                   (CEAC) (Percentage, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   15                       90                                  100
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/31/2011               11/30/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target surpassed.
achievement)
                   Reduce the time to produce agreed upon managerial reports through i-Gesp
Indicator 2 :
                   (Number, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   0                        4                                   4
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved
achievement)
                   Increase in revenues collected from tax arrears as a share of the stock of tax
Indicator 3 :
                   arrears (Percentage, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   0.43                     0.52                                0.39
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013                          12/31/2013



                                                   iii
Comments           Target not achieved. It can be attributed mostly to the difficult in recovering
(incl. %           the tax arrears timely as well as the option available to tax avoiders for
achievement)       refinancing with discounts, making immediate repay unattractive.
                   Increase the number of maternity hospitals implementing the protocol for
Indicator 4 :      classification of admissions by risk (Acolhimento com Classificação de Risco
                   – ACCR) (Number, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   1                       3                                   3
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved.
achievement)
                   Reduce the cesarean section rate at the referral Maternity Hospital Nossa
Indicator 5 :      Senhora de Lourdes according to the guidelines in Portaria No. 3477/1998
                   (Percentage, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   55.02                   50.20                               57.46
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011                12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments           Target not achieved. The selected hospital is the only high-risk referral
(incl. %           hospital in the State, receiving a high number of pregnancies with
achievement)       complications, which commonly requires cesarean sections.
                   Increase the number of school directors selected by merit and with signed
Indicator 6 :
                   management agreements (Number, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   0                       151                                 159
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target surpassed.
achievement)
                   Increase the number of municipalities receiving technical assistance from the
Indicator 7 :
                   State in the implementation of PNAIC (Number, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   0                       38                                  73
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              11/30/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target surpassed.
achievement)
                   Increase the number of trained small producer units included in the Núcleos de
Indicator 8 :      Produção de Leite and selling at least 90 percent of their production to private
                   and public/institutional markets (Number, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   3                       30                                  30
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              11/30/2013                          12/31/2013


                                                 iv
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved
achievement)
                   Increase # of small producers in the Program for Agroecological Production
Indicator 9 :      and linked to the Social Control Orgs. selling directly in agroecological fairs
                   and to private and public/inst. markets (Text, Custom)
Value
                                            100 producers, 15                   114 producers, 44
(quantitative or   83 producers, 5 women
                                            women                               women
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target surpassed.
achievement)
                   Increase the number of seasonal workers benefitting from the program Mão
Indicator 10 :
                   Amiga included in the program Sergipe Alfabetizado (Text, Custom)
Value
                                            565 of which 1/8                    241 of which 74 are
(quantitative or   0
                                            are women                           women
Qualitative)
Date achieved      02/29/2012               12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
                   Target partially achieved. Although less workers have benefited, a substantial
(incl. %
                   share were women, complying with the second part of the target.
achievement)
                   Increase the number of families with monthly per capita income of less than
Indicator 11 :     R$70.00/month living in the poorest 15 municipalities included in the
                   CadÚnico (Number, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   39582                    41561                               48396
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               09/30/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target surpassed.
achievement)
                   Increase the number of women in situations of violence and vulnerability
Indicator 12 :     attended in the Rede de Atendimento à Mulher Vítima de Violência (Number,
                   Custom)
Value
(quantitative or   3985                     6973                                7630
Qualitative)
Date achieved      03/31/2012               12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target surpassed.
achievement)




                                                   v
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                            DO                  IP         Disbursements
        Archived
                                                               (USD millions)
  1    09/07/2013           Satisfactory        Satisfactory              0.00
  2    03/20/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory           149.63
  3    08/18/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory           149.63
  4    12/18/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory           149.63


H. Restructuring (if any)
N/A




                                           vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Since the early 1990s, Brazil has experienced sustained reductions in poverty
and inequality and the share of Brazilians living in poverty had decreased from 42
percent in 1990 to 21 percent in 2009.1 The poor benefited from lower inflation levels,
economic growth, and a rapid increase in the minimum wage, trade liberalization and
associated job creation. Targeted pro-poor initiatives included the national Bolsa Família
cash transfer program, social security transfers, significant investments in education at all
levels, and large scale rural community-driven development programs throughout the
Northeast region. Improvements in consumption and income indicators were accompanied
by important advances across a range of non-income measures of well-being (access to
health, education, clean water, sanitation, electrification). With regard to inequality,
Brazil’s Gini coefficient decreased from just under 0.61 to about 0.54, and the incidence
of extreme poverty2 dropped about twice as fast as overall poverty.

2.      However, in 2012, at the time of this preparation of the operation, Brazil still
faced major challenges in tackling poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion issues,
especially in the Northeast region and its rural areas. Poverty in Brazil remained more
deeply entrenched in rural areas (29 percent) than in large metropolitan cities (10 percent)
and smaller urban centers (13 percent). Fifty-nine percent3of the country’s poor resided in
the Northeast region, mainly in rural areas, villages and small towns, where economic
activity revolved largely around agriculture and associated services. Growth in the
Northeast equaled or surpassed national rates over the past decade; but the starting point
with respect to incomes and well-being was considerably lower than the national average;
thus, sustained investment and reform efforts were needed to close the gap.

3.      Brazil’s overall macroeconomic framework at the time of Project preparation
was deemed adequate and sustainable in the medium term. While the Brazilian
economy slowed significantly from 2011 and 2012, the growth was expected to take off
towards the end of 2012 with improvements in the services and industrial sectors along
with monetary policy interventions that contemplated substantial reductions in interest
rates within an expansionary policy aimed at stimulating spending and demand. Policy
framework had provided the authorities with sufficient leeway to respond to past and
current crises with an array of fiscal, monetary, and external measures to stimulate demand.
Gross public sector debt was expected to decline, despite difficulties in maintaining fiscal
balance in the face of large investment needs and pressures from public expenditure growth.



1
  Institute for Economic Analysis (Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada –	IPEA), 2010.
2
   Extreme poverty is defined as average daily consumption of $1.25 or less and means living on the edge of
subsistence. World Bank, 2010.
3
  Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística –	IBGE),
2010

                                                    1
Flexible exchange rates and relatively large foreign reserves provided additional comfort
in meeting external contingencies.

4.       Though Sergipe performed relatively well on key development indicators
compared to other states in the Northeast, it was lagging behind the national average.
In the previous years preceding the operation, education, health, and income growth
indicators had shown improvement at a faster pace than other Northeast states, translating
into the highest human development index in the region. Despite progress, Sergipe was
still ranking below the national average on key development indicators. The Government
of Sergipe (GoS) recognized that closing the gap required reaching the poorest segments
of the population. To this end, it had outlined an ambitious program to eradicate poverty in
the State, aligned with the federal government’s Brasil Sem Miséria program. In addition,
a series of poverty alleviation strategies (discussed further in the document) had been
defined, though a participatory planning process, and the World Bank had been sought to
support the realization of these strategies.

5.       Government’s plan, based on a broad participatory planning process,
reflected its commitment to social inclusion, poverty alleviation, and extreme poverty
eradication. Beginning in 2007, the Government had introduced new participatory
mechanisms as part of its planning process, through consultations with a broad range of
stakeholders, such as municipal governments, private sector actors, civil society, and non-
governmental organizations. Conferences were held in all the 75 municipalities to identify
priority demands from the local population and to elect municipal representatives for eight
territorial conferences, which were subsequently held to debate and select demands with
territorial and state scope. Late in 2008, the GoS organized a statewide conference in order
to create a consensus between the State and society on the priority action plans, projects,
and goals. About 24,000 people took part in the first round of municipal conferences and
identified 8,671 priority actions; 900 municipal representatives took part in the territorial
and statewide conferences. The approved priority actions, which focused on short-term
outputs and outcomes were consolidated in the State`s Multiyear Participatory Plan (Plano
Plurianual Participativo –PPA-P).

6.      In 2011, the Government further developed its participatory planning
processes in an attempt to incorporate medium and long-term strategic goals. The
preparation of the State's long-term strategic plan had evolved from an attempt to bring
together and align the technical expertise needed for strategic and budgetary management,
citizen's participation, and social control over policy planning and implementation. Initially,
State secretariats and agencies convened to discuss the Government’s strategic guidelines
and define priority areas. Subsequently, the Government´s implementation of the previous
PPA-P was evaluated in a new round of territorial conferences that convened hundreds of
municipal representatives. More than 80 percent of the 377 proposals identified in these
conferences were included in the 2012-15 PPA-P. The policies supported by this operation
had been scrutinized and validated in conferences and, consequently, included in the
Government`s strategic guidelines.




                                              2
Rationale for Bank Involvement

7.      The overarching goal of the 2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) was to
contribute to Brazil’s aim for a faster, more inclusive, and environmentally
sustainable growth, with macroeconomic stability. Brazil’s priorities for its partnership
with the World Bank Group were set out in the CPS for the period FY2012-2015.4 The
strategy was focused on second-generation development problems that require innovative
solutions in terms of improving national policy frameworks and finding ways to implement
programs with sub-national governments. Specifically, the CPS had identified four
strategic objectives: (i) increase the efficiency of public and private investments; (ii)
improve the quality and expand the provision of public services for low income
households; (iii) promote regional economic development; and (iv) further improve
sustainable natural resource management and enhance climatic resilience while
contributing to local economic development and helping to meet rising global food demand.

8.      The CPS envisaged sustained or increased lending to state and municipal
levels, with a focus on multi-sector operations. The Federal Government was interested
in the World Bank’s support to sub-national governments as a way of enhancing the
implementation of national policies, ranging from the fiscal responsibility framework to
strategic social and infrastructure investment programs. Sub-national governments
demanded integrated multi-sectoral development solutions that address complex and
multidimensional development challenges, combining technical and financial support,
while using tailored instruments.

9.     The broad objective of the proposed operation was to support the State of
Sergipe in improving public sector management and expanding access to quality
public services and economic opportunities for the extreme poor. Thus, the proposed
operation was fully consistent with the overarching objective of the CPS FY2012-2015,
and with the strategic objectives of enhancing the efficiency of public investments,
improving quality, expanding provision of public services, and promoting regional
economic development.

10.     World Bank financing and technical knowledge aimed to increase the State’s
capacity to invest in, and implement its strategic programs. The Program, thus, set out
to support the State’s efforts to promote social inclusion and reduce poverty, both through
the resources provided and through an improved policy and institutional framework for
implementing government policy and aligning policies across different levels of
government.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)




4
    CPS FY2012-2015 (Report No. 63731-BR) discussed by the Executive Directors on November 1, 2011.

                                                   3
The Policy Development Objective of the proposed operation was to improve public
sector management and expand access to quality public services and economic
opportunities for the extremely poor. This objective, with its specific policy actions, was
measured through twelve key indicators as described below.

     Increase responsiveness to citizen complaints in the Citizen Service Centers (CEAC)
      by increasing the share of complaints that receive a written explanation from 15 to 90
      percent in specified CEACs.
     Reduce the time to produce agreed upon managerial reports through i-Gesp, the
      Integrated Financial Management Information System.
     Increase in revenues collected from tax arrears as a share of the stock of tax arrears
      from 0.43 to 0.52 percent.
     Increase the number of maternity hospitals implementing the protocol for classification
      of admissions by risk to 75 percent of maternity hospitals under state management.
     Reduce the cesarean section rate at the referral Maternity Hospital Nossa Senhora de
      Lourdes from 55.2 to 50.2 percent.
     Increase the number of school directors selected by merit and with signed management
      agreements by 40 percent.
     Increase the number of municipalities receiving support from the State for
      implementation of the Literacy at the Right Age Program – PNAIC to 38 (50 percent
      of the total municipalities in the state).
     Increase the number of trained small producer units included in the Milk Production
      Units (Núcleos de Produção de Leite) and selling at least 90 percent of their production
      to private and public/institutional markets ten-fold.
     Increase the number of small producers included in the Program for Agro-ecological
      Production and linked to the Social Control Organizations selling directly at agro-
      ecological fairs and to private and public/institutional markets by 20 percent.
     Increase the number of seasonal workers benefitting from the program Mão Amiga
      included in the program Sergipe Alfabetizado to 50 percent, 1/8 of which are women.
     Increase the number of families with monthly per capita income of less than R$70.00
      living in the poorest 15 municipalities included in the CadÚnico by 5 percent.
      Increase the number of women in situations of violence and vulnerability attended by
      the Network for Support of Women-Victims of Violence (Rede de Atendimento à
      Mulher Vítima de Violência) by 75 percent.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

11.       The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

12.     The multisectoral Single Tranche DPL (USD$150m) focused on three policy areas,
identified by the Government as posing challenges to achievement of its poverty reduction
goals, namely: (i) consolidating fiscal management and public sector innovations; (ii)
increasing access to better quality public services in health and education; and (iii)

                                               4
promoting socioeconomic development and inclusive growth in the interior of the State.
The operation aimed to support the GoS in realizing its commitment to eradicating poverty
in the State by promoting structural reforms and expanding provision of essential public
services.

Policy Area 1: Consolidating Fiscal Management and Public Sector Innovations

13.    The objective of the GoS was to achieve excellence in public management by
promoting fiscal responsibility and innovations in public administration. Within this
context, the actions taken by the State demonstrated a commitment to: (i) improve quality
and responsiveness to citizens; (ii) implement new integrated tools for budget, financial,
and human resources management; and (iii) combat fiscal avoidance to ensure fair
contributions to public expenditures.

14.     To improve citizen services, GoS had proposed an implementation of a ‘one
stop shop’ model with standardization of processes in order to unify citizen services
within CEACs. These services, though already offered by the Government and delivered
in a single physical space, had not been standardized, and the processes were not unified.
Lack of standardization was negatively affecting the administration of citizen’s services
(such as those offered by the Department of Transit, Secretariat of Public Security and
Secretariat of Finance), as well as the quality of their delivery. The new system,
contemplating the standardization of all the processes, was designed with the purpose of
shortening the average time spent by citizens in obtaining the services delivered in the
CEACs and improving client satisfaction. As a complement to this measure, a Charter on
the Citizen’s Attention Services was also drafted and approved for implementation to
specify the basic rights of citizens as users of the State’s CEACs.

15.     To accomplish the goal of modernizing of key planning, budgetary, execution
and control processes, GoS undertook the task of replacing its outdated information
and telecommunication technology system. The Government acquired a new Integrated
System of Public Management system, i-Gesp intended to serve as a Government resource
planning system. Compared to the former system, which did not allow for the adoption of
the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS), adopted by Brazil in 2013,
i-Gesp was a tool specifically designed for public management, providing more agility,
flexibility, integration, control, transparency, and quality. Within the DPL operation, GoS
set out to accomplish the full integration of i-Gesp, including modules covering all key
management areas: (i) planning; (ii) budgeting; (iii) budgetary and financial control; (iv)
public accounting; and (v) agreements management. Additionally, as the system
encompassed an entire cycle of administrative activities, regulation was necessary to
establish its compulsory use by the executive branch; this operation was to support the
adoption of this regulation.

16.     Finally, to combat tax evasion, the State turned to a virtual and integrated
process for the collection of tax arrears. Government drafted a Decree to regulate
virtualization and integration of the processes for debt recovery. Virtualization meant that
all documents relating to the recovery of tax arrears were made available to all parties (tax

                                             5
agents, state attorneys and judges) in an electronic form. Further, the integration of all the
systems into a single workflow tool eliminated the need to request information through
memos, thereby speeding up the process. The system allowed for effective monitoring by
all participants as well as provided for enforcement of State Registry of Unpaid Credits
(Cadastro Informativo dos Créditos Não Quitados com Estado - CADIN) and the
inscription of debtors in Shop Manager Chamber (Serviços de Centralização dos Bancos -
SERASA), an enterprise that collects and analyzes personal economic and financial
information to support credit-related decisions and a significant tool to recover tax arrears
created by banks. It should be noted that the implementation of this system constitutes an
innovation in the field of combating tax evasion at the state level in Brazil; previously, only
the state of São Paulo has implemented a virtual process, but without integration of
concerned bodies.

Policy Area 2: Increasing Access to Better Quality Public Services

Health

17.     Within a broader goal of increasing access to better quality public services in
health, the universal coverage of quality and client-centered healthcare were the
primary objectives of the Government. In its strategy, GoS had outlined the need to
strengthen the Unified Health System (SUS) by, among other things: (i) adhering to the
federal program Rede Cegonha (Maternal and Child Healthcare Network) in order to
improve the quality of maternal and newborn health services; and (ii) strengthening
integration between levels of care, including maternal and neonatal care network.

18.     To reach these goals, the following two policy actions were selected to be
implemented in this operation, as follows: (1) to increase the number of maternity
hospitals implementing protocol for classification of admissions by risks (Acolihmento
com Classificação de Risco-ACCR), and to (2) reduce the cesarean section rate at the
referral Maternitiy Hosptial Nossa Sehora de Lourdes. The first Policy Action had as its
main goal the early identification of pregnant women throughout the maternal and newborn
care network, timely and efficient referral and diagnostics, as well as information
management across levels of care. The latter, on the other hand, focused on reducing the
incidence of an undesirable in normal birth surgical procedure, the increased rate of which
could be attributed to deficiencies in management and the referral system.

Education

19.     Within the context of increasing access to better quality public education, GoS
emphasized two specific goals: (i) strengthening school management in state-run schools,
and (ii) improving learning results in municipal elementary schools. To address the first
goal, GoS focused on establishing a merit-based and participatory/democratic selection
process for school directors, thus adopting a more participatory approach within a
decentralized model for school management, and the provision of incentives for increased
accountability to the school community and to the state government. Moreover, the
Government institutionalized the management and monitoring of the system and schools

                                              6
by establishing of management agreements signed between the State Secretary of
Education (Secretaria de Estado da Educação - SEED) and the school directors to include
an index for evaluating school performance, structured curriculum guidelines,
establishment of School Councils, and strengthening of the Integrated Management School
System (Sistema Escolar de Gestão Integrada – SIGA).

20.    Additionally, the DPL aimed to support the Government in improving
coordination within the education system as a whole through institutionalization of a
new regime of collaboration between the state and municipal subsystems for the
implementation of the Literacy at the Right Age Program (Programa Nacional de
Alfabetização na Idade Certa – PNAIC). Within this new policy, SEED would provide
technical assistance and guidance to the municipalities participating in the PNAIC in order
to guarantee that all municipal schools achieve the objective of improving literacy in
children before 3rd grade.

Policy Area 3: Promoting Socioeconomic Development and Inclusive Growth

21.     The Government´s interventions in this area focused on improving policies
and institutional mechanisms to promote socioeconomic development and inclusive
growth in the interior of the State, especially in rural areas. In a state, whose economic
activity focuses on agriculture, with 70 percent of population living in rural areas, the
policy focused on bringing positive social and economic gains to the poor and other
vulnerable social groups, with socially and environmentally sustainable rural development
and policy reforms based on: (i) technical assistance targeted to small and medium-size
producers and traditional communities, (ii) productive inclusion programs, and (iii) social
protection policies. The combination of these institutional complementary reforms and
inclusive growth policies were focused on bringing positive impact by reducing poverty
and improving sustainable practices in fragile ecosystems.

22.     In an effort to promote income growth by improving access to markets, GoS
implemented a policy for strengthening clusters for family agriculture, including the
Dairy Production Clusters (Núcleos de Produção de Leite). The State provided support
to rural producers through seed capital, technical assistance and rural extension across
selected production chains, with the aim of enabling greater market participation,
particularly in institutional niches such as the National School Feeding Program (Programa
Nacional de Alimentação Escolar – PNAE), as well as private markets.

23.    In promoting sustainable agriculture and productive use of rural landscapes,
GoS, through its State Company for Agriculture and Livestock, created a Program
for the training family farmers in agro-ecological production. Training of small
producers in Agro-ecological Production took place in the Caatinga biome, where
rudimentary productive systems (slash-and-burn agriculture), and lack of knowledge and
resources to promote soil conservation have been contributing to deforestation,
environmental degradation, erosion, silting of water courses, and contamination of springs
with the excessive use of pesticides. A set of policies aimed at reducing the burden of
poverty by attenuating the environmental constraints that worsen the life of poor people

                                            7
included: (i) natural resources management (especially, optimizing water uses and
increasing water efficiency) in the target area; and (ii) scale-up of this methodology and
approach to other rural areas. Further, to ensure access to markets, the farmers were linked
to the Social Control Organizations in order to sell directly to agro-ecological fairs and to
private and public/institutional markets.

24.     Further, GoS focused on increasing employment and income opportunities for
the most vulnerable populations, especially seasonal orange and sugarcane
production workers, by providing access to a state literacy program. The SEIDES, in
coordination with the SEED, created a plan for including and certifying seasonal workers
that are already part of the State’s income transfer and generation Mão Amiga program in
the literacy Sergipe Alfabetizado program. This measure was aimed at improving
competitiveness of the workers and allowing them to have an increased access to the labor
market upon the completion of the program.

25.     Finally, to address social protection and prevention of gender-based violence,
GoS implemented a Policy Actions aimed at: (i) strengthening the Social Assistance
System (Sistema Único de Assistência Social– SUAS) by merging it with the CadÚnico, a
roster for identifying and classifying low income families, and co-financing it in at least
twenty percent of all municipalities; and (ii) by scaling up state and municipal government
protection of women threatened by violence and vulnerability by increasing by 50 percent
the number of this group attended by the Women Protection and Support Program (Rede
de Atendimento à Mulher Vítima de Violência).

26.     The DPL established a need to measure, in some cases for the first time, the
baseline and accompanying results of the Policy Actions. While this was a very positive
development, not all areas were equally prepared. The lack of capacity by the implementing
secretariats to monitor and evaluate data created difficulties in selecting indicators that
would correctly measure the actions of their respective sectors. In some cases, this meant
selecting indicators that would be easier to measure, yielding much less relevant and
weaker impacts. Additionally, the focus on one indicator per Policy Action limited
resources to the implementation of only those results required by the selected indicator,
instead of the overall development goals.

27.    Gender-based violence issues were addressed by the Special Secretary for
Women´s right through the scale-up of state and municipal government support for
the protection of women threatened by violence and vulnerability, especially in
municipalities that had the highest incidence of this type of violence. This policy was to
be implemented through the strengthening of the Network for Attention to Women Victims
of Violence (Rede de Atendimento à Mulher Vítima de Violência) accompanied by
campaigns to increase awareness and political support for this issue.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
N/A




                                             8
1.6 Other significant changes
N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

28.     All the required Policy Actions of this DPL were satisfied in a timely manner, with
no delays in effectiveness or disbursement of the financing, significantly advancing the
State’s development agenda and creating a significant positive impact in respective areas,
as described in the Assessment of Outcomes section below. While some of the PDO
indicators, linked to policy actions aimed at combating fiscal avoidance, improvements in
maternal health care, and increasing employment opportunities for most vulnerable people
(PDO #3,5 and 10) were only partially achieved or not met, 75% of the outcomes were
fully achieved and the overall PDO was fulfilled. Additionally, challenges that arose in
the process of reaching the results and impediments that prevented others from being
accomplished served as important tools for drawing valuable lessons, which serve to better
design future reforms and operations that can further advance the development agenda of
the State of Sergipe.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation Government commitments

29.      The State of Sergipe was and continues to be fully committed to the ongoing reform
process carried out for the development of the State through fiscal management and
innovation and promoting inclusive growth for its poorest population segments. Most
Policy Actions were drawn from the State’s development agenda; hence, strong ownership
facilitated their implementation. In some sectors, as was, for instance, the case with the
planning and financial sectors, the leverage created by the Bank investment, played a
critical role in adding a necessary political weight for advancing reforms and increasing
commitment and adherence to policies. Upon their implementation, these reforms have
gained an increased level of sustainability, consolidated by the passage of laws and decrees
that served as an essential cornerstone, accomplished within this operation, for making
headways in the development agenda.

30.     Political and Institutional Risk. In the particular case of the implementation of
actions that required the involvement and coordination with other levels of the government,
such as was the case with the alphabetization program for seasonal workers, the risk
identified during preparation materialized and resulted in bottlenecks and delays,
precluding the indicator from reaching its goal. Despite the remedies that were discussed
during preparation, such as strong political support by the highest levels of the Government,
including the Governor himself, the implementation processes suffered substantial delays
and other challenges in coordination between the state and federal levels. However,
valuable lessons learned for the design and operation of such social programs were
obtained and the Government continues adjusting its approach in order to better reach the
most vulnerable populations.



                                             9
31.     Fiscal Position. The State of Sergipe had some instability in fiscal results prior to
the commencement of the program. Primary balance and expenditures had deteriorated,
especially post the 2009 crisis. As an important prerequisite for Bank engagement,
compliance with fiscal limits in accordance to the Fiscal Responsibility Law was required
prior to signing of the Loan Agreement for this DPL. Though fiscal adjustments were
implemented in a satisfactory manner, recovering the positions prior to commending the
project, expenditures did not fall to a prudential limit. To avoid deterioration, the Bank
team maintained close dialogue with the government both during the implementation of
this DPL and after its completion in preparation of the second phase in order to assure that
the fiscal adjustment measures complied with the Law.

32.      Results Framework. The framework described in detail in the section below, was
an important instrument in ascertaining measurability of the performance of the program.
However, while the tool served well to quantify the outcomes of the implementation of
most of the Policy Actions, some implementing agencies lacked the technical and
implementation capacity for applying this tool to the intervention, thus hampering the
reliability of its results. Additionally, the framework suffered from some flaws in design,
especially in capturing the real impact of the PDO actions that required a longer-term
timeframe, thus hampering the ability to measure their real impact on development in a
short timeframe.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

33.     This DPL significantly contributed to the strengthening of the State´s nascent
M&E system as well as to the development of a results-based culture in policy-
making. Subnational and local levels of government suffer from weaker than the national
levels capacity in M&E. Thus, improvements in its design and implementation were
important for carrying out policy reforms and monitoring their impact on development.
The adoption of i-Gesp by SEFAZ permitted for automation in preparation and search of
management reports by all areas of the government. Access to this previously unavailable
data significantly facilitated policy-makers´ and implementers´ ability to base decision on
quantitative and qualitative data, thus strengthening focus on results and performance,
accomplishment of objectives and indicators, and increasing flexibility, integration, and
transparency.

34.     The DPL established a need to measure, in some cases for the first time, the
baseline and accompanying results of the Policy Actions. While this was a very positive
development, not all areas were equally prepared. The lack of capacity by the implementing
secretariats to monitor and evaluate data created difficulties in selecting indicators that
would correctly measure the actions of their respective sectors. In some cases, this meant
selecting indicators that would be easier to measure, yielding much less relevant and
weaker impacts. Additionally, the focus on one indicator per Policy Action limited
resources to the implementation of only those results required by the selected indicator,
instead of the overall development goals.




                                             10
35.    The overall design of the M&E was highly important to track the
accomplishments of the Program and the results indicators were generally relevant.
However, the selected indicators in some cases proved inadequate in reflecting the progress
achieved by the supported policy reforms in their entirety. Some of them did not accurately
measure the precise actions and policy measures undertaken by the State, while others
could have benefitted from a narrower and more operational definition.

36.     For instance, in Prior Action 1.1, the results indicator (PDO #1) selected
(percentage of complaints regarding citizen´s services responded) did not accurately
reflect the primary concern of improving quality of service to citizens, given that the
baseline registered very few complaints to begin with (i.e. 0.6 complaints per month, of
which 100% were met). Rather, focus on factors such as delays in receiving service and
quality of service provision would have better-captured the root of the problems and
reflected the actual challenges successfully addressed by the Secretariat of Planning and
Management (Secretaria do Planejamento e Gestão -SEPLAG) in its reform process.
Further, the objective of improving learning in primary schools of the municipalities (2.b.2)
could have benefited from a more narrowly defined results indicator (PDO #6) rather than
the selected one of increasing the number of municipalities receiving technical support
from the state to implement the PNAIC. While the indicator is an important one in
improving cooperation and institutional strengthening, its results as an immediate outcome
of the actions of the project were difficult to capture within the short-term operation.

37.     SEPLAG had the overall responsibility for the implementation of M&E,
reporting progress and coordinating actions with other involved secretariats. The
management of M&E and liaison with the World Bank was carried out by a team within
SEPLAG, created especially in order to coordinate the implementation of the
Government’s strategic programs with the other implementing agencies on a daily basis.
Given its multi-sectorial nature, the operation was implemented by seven different State
secretariats, namely the SEPLAG, the Secretariat of Finance (SEFAZ), the Secretariat of
Health (SES), the Secretariat of Education (SEED), the Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural
Development (SEAGRI), the Special Secretariat of Women (SEPM), and the Secretariat
of Inclusion, Protection, and Social Development (SEIDES). These secretariats were
responsible for monitoring, implementation, and outcomes in their respective technical
areas, while SEPLAG had an additional and overall coordination role.

38.     The client carried out the monitoring of Results Indicators satisfactorily, while
collaboration and communication with the Bank continued strong throughout the
Project. One of the particular strengths of the monitoring and evaluation, and indeed
overall implementation, was the high degree of coordination across secretariats through
SEPLAG, which showed a high level of commitment and knowledge to this process.
Despite this strength, the lack of uniformity across sectors in measuring and monitoring
progress, created uneven overall results in implementation, utilization, and sustainability
of this measure.

39.    During the implementation of the program, in 2012, some of the indicators
were at risk for completion, suffering either from delays in implementation or due to

                                             11
design flaws. Upon a detailed explanation requested and received from the State for these
delays and challenges, correction of indicators was carried out. While some improvements
were made, it proved difficult to implement all of the necessary changes given the short-
term nature of this operation.

40.     In summary, the shortcoming of the results framework can be in large part
attributed to the lack of stronger technical assistance during preparation in the design
of the framework in secretaries with inadequate capacities as well as weak definitions
of indicators for some of the policy actions. Correcting these challenges will require
devising a more robust and instrument-appropriate results framework while assistance with
design and implementation of the M&E constitutes an important area where Bank could
contribute technical knowledge to improving the effectiveness of development with focus
on results.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)

41.    This DPL operation created a rich venue for continued collaboration of the
Bank with the State of Sergipe. The relationship between the two is very likely to
continue in the future, as it is seen as an important factor in the ongoing consolidation of
the State’s reform process. The State has expressed interest in carrying out another
operation, phase two DPL, which has been prepared, but has not yet been approved. If it is
materialized, taking into account lessons learned from the phase one operation will be
important to continue deepening the reforms focused on development and reaching
vulnerable populations more effectively.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.     The operation was developed based on the State’s development agenda and
was in alignment with the Brazil Country Partnership Strategy. The DPL policy
actions addressed three CPS pillars: (i) consolidating fiscal management and public sector
innovations; (ii) increasing access to better quality public services in health and education;
and (iii) promoting socioeconomic development and inclusive growth in the interior of the
State. These objectives were and remain highly relevant for Brazil and for the State of
Sergipe. This operation was a result of a continued partnership with the World Bank and
has supported the consolidation of the Government reform program.

43.     Operational design. This DPL was anchored on the Government’s plan for reform
and based on participatory planning carried out in the last few years for an inclusive
development agenda. The three DPL policy areas selected were relevant and well reflected
in the PDO, and aligned both with the Government’s development agenda as well as with
the Bank’s CPS. Support of selected Policy Areas allowed for the consolidation of the
reform efforts and contributed to the sustainability of the development agenda. However,
some of the actions that were inherited from a previous unfinished Bank investment
operation (as described in detail in section 3.1) lacked scale and/or sustainability to farther

                                              12
the development policy objective, proving to be inadequate in reaching a sufficient amount
of beneficiaries to produce impact necessary for advancing the development goals.

44.     Preparation and Policy Area Selection. The Policy Areas were highly relevant
and aligned with the State´s priorities. Each of the Policy Actions was selected in
coordination with stakeholders involved and secretariats responsible for the respective
areas. While this is true for all three Policy Areas, to fully understand the process of
selection of the actions under Policy Area 3, it is worth noting that this DPL drew heavily
on content from the Sergipe State Integrated Project (SSIP)5 and its predecessor, the Rural
Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP)6. Anchored on the Brazil CPS, both of these projects
stressed value-added on how to strengthen productive activities in communities and their
integration into markets by exploiting social capital gains, and based on the success of the
similar projects previously implemented in the neighboring Northeastern states in social
capital formation. However, given some fiscal non-compliance issues with the Federal
Government, Sergipe was unable to proceed with an additional financing and projects
suffered substantial delays in implementation, compromising reaching the objectives set
forth.

45.     Considering that the objectives and priorities of the Government remained
relevant to the needs of poor rural communities in Sergipe, some of the projects and
priorities were carried over to this DPL. This decision was based on the volume of
demand generated by the potential beneficiaries and direct evidence of pervasive, persistent
deficits in basic infrastructure, productive employment, and income opportunities in all of
the participating communities surveyed, and the need for cross-sector integration to
accelerate and deepen poverty reduction. Despite the relevance, the design of a few Policy
Actions did not fit neatly under the DPL investment, more appropriate for wide-scale
reforms/actions, proving unable to reach the scale necessary for creating a positive impact
in a short timeframe of this operation.

46.     Investment Instrument and design of the DPL. The choice of a DPL and its
design ensured increased capacity of the government and respective sectors by giving them
access to rapid financing mechanism and political leverage necessary for the cross-sectoral
reforms and actions in key areas of public administration. However, the above-mentioned
inherited programs included in this DPL and the sectors responsible for their
implementation, which started off with weaker implementation capacities, were strongly
reliant on technical implementation support and proved to be somewhat unprepared for an
implementation under a DPL operation. These programs, such as the Green Inclusive
Growth and the Intensive Production System programs, would have benefited from a
stronger and more engaged assistance in setting up the M&E framework and a more regular
technical support/supervision for implementation inherent to Investment Project Financing
(IPF).




5
    Sergipe State Integrated Project: Rural Poverty (P110614) – Loan N. IBRD 75950
6
    Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe (P074085) – Loan N. IBRD 76490

                                                    13
47.     These incongruences of the design with Policy Actions influenced the
implementation negatively, preventing reaching the set out goals and making some of
the accomplishments incomplete in their reach and sustainability. Despite this, the
design helped further the important reform process and reaching most of the policy actions
set out by the program. Fundamental reforms were implemented in the planning and
finance sectors, important changes were made in tax collection modernization, some
positive gains were accomplished in access of the population to social services, and needed
performance-based management measures were adopted in the education sector. The major
shortcoming remains in the latter two areas, while lack of results is still observed in tax
collection. However, these areas require further monitoring for understanding the long-
term impacts of the reforms.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

48.     The overall PDO of improving public sector management and expanding
access to quality public services and economic opportunities for the extremely poor
was successfully accomplished by the program. Policy Area 1 made important advances
in public sector management, deepening the innovative management model and
strengthening budget management within three specific policy actions as described below.
Advances in quality public services and economic opportunities for the extremely poor and
the promotion of socioeconomic development and inclusive growth were made within
Policy Areas 2 and 3 in numerous actions implemented by respective sectors.

The specific outcomes achieved under each Policy Areas are described below.

Policy Area 1 – Consolidating fiscal management and public sector innovations

49.     Policy Area 1, aimed at consolidating fiscal management and public sector
innovation, focused on three Policy Actions, as described below. They were measured
by three Results Indicators (PDO #1, 2 and 3), two of which (PDO #1 and 2) were
achieved. The achievements of this policy area as measured by these indicators as well as
considering improvements in advancing the development objectives that exceeded the
results measured by indicators, is considered to be Substantial, as explained below.

50.     Policy Action 1: In order to improve the quality of government-citizen services,
SEPLAG, in charge of this action, undertook a systematic survey of the CEACs and
revision of the main processes to understand the roots of the problems, which included lack
of standardization and efficiently, long waits, asides from poor quality of service provision.
To tackle these issues, a complete computerization of the system was implemented to
enable an online appointment management system, improved transparency and the
standardization of processes across the state and customers. While the PDO #1, as targeted,
was exceeded, reaching 100 percent of complaints of citizens responded in writing and
with motivation, the accomplishments reflected by this indicator do not fully reflect the
accomplishments of the policy as is explained in paragraph below.

51.   Despite the poorly defined indicator, the results accomplished by SEPLAG in
improving quality of citizen services and creating a client-centered model for service

                                             14
provision were substantial and sustainable. As a first step and as part of the PPA 2012-
2015, SEPLAG implemented a pilot project in one of the CEACs to test out new processes
paired with indicators, created based on the results of the surveys that included citizen´s
opinions and government employee feedback. Pre- and Post-Evaluation surveys were
applied to further fine-tune the processes. The results of this program created immediate
improvements. Average waiting and service provision times improved, decreasing to an
average of 15 minutes for waiting and less than 5 minutes for service provision.
Additionally, a mobile unit was created to provide services to locations with greatest
difficulties in access in order to reach the most vulnerable populations.

52.     Policy Action 2 aimed to modernize key planning, budgeting, execution, and
control processes through replacing the online management software with i-Gesp. The
introduction of i-Gesp made it possible to access and cross-check reports from all of the
state secretaries, streamline the process of preparing and sharing management reports, and
allowing for control of budgets and execution never before possible. The implementing
agency, SEFAZ, replaced its dysfunctional system and achieved improvements not only in
the overall facility in the production of reports as expected from the indicator, but also,
more importantly, in management of expenditure control, innovations in management
control, strengthening of coordination between secretaries, streamline of authorizations,
hiring management, bidding management, among other managerial activities inherent to
SEFAZ.

53.     Overall, this online management system dramatically improved the time-
efficiency, predictability, and control of budget execution, which was reflected in
numerous reports being produced and available for cross-review by the secretaries.
The indicator of four reports produced automatically (PDO #2) was far surpassed by the
implementing secretary and positive improvements carried over to all the other executing
secretaries. Substantial amounts of resources were saved as a result of time-savings of
human resources for producing reports and in time needed to locate information necessary
in making important managerial decisions. In the case of the latter, easy access to
information made its use in decision-making much more prominent across agencies,
contributing to development of a culture of policy-making based on results. Another
unexpected positive result of the process of modernization was the improvement in
transparency and accountability.

54.     Policy Action 3 aimed to contribute to efforts to increase revenue by the state
by combating fiscal avoidance. GoS issued a decree to implement a virtual and integrated
process for collection of tax arrears. In conjunction with the new law, the process of
inspection was automated and modernized to allow for a faster turn-around and reaching
out to a wider audience of the stock of tax avoiders. This process was not contemplated
originally, but occurred as a necessary supplemental reform in order to meet the
requirements of the indicator, resulting in tremendous time-savings and improvements in
tax administration.

55.   The original PDO indicator (PDO #3) of increasing the revenues collected
from 0.43 to 0.52 from the tax arrears as a share of stock of tax arrears was not

                                            15
achieved. However, as per the evaluation of SEFAZ, the new system in place will very
likely prevent tax avoidance in the future, asides from dramatically improving management
efficiency. The reasons for not achieving the indicator have to do with the difficulty in
recovering the old paper-based storage taxes as well as, more importantly, the option
available to tax avoiders for refinancing that allows to pay 5% of the original fine over time,
making immediate repayment somewhat less attractive.

56.     Overall, GoS went to great lengths to decentralize and modernize its
management model, institutionalize better budgetary controls, and increase citizen
participation. While not all of the reforms achieved the expected levels of success, as was
the case for recovering stock of tax arrears, important lessons were learned and
opportunities to improve future efforts in this area were drawn from the operation.
Furthermore, the reforms and new policies in place have created a foundation, upon which
further improvements in the systems can be built in a more effective and efficient manner,
given the new management tools and legal framework in place.

Policy Area 2 – Increasing access to better quality public services in health and
education

57.     Policy Area 2 that had as its main objective the increase in access to better
quality public services in health and education, achieved three out of four Policy
Actions as measured by indicators (PDO #4, 6 and 7) outlined in the DPL. The
deficiencies in achieving PDO #5 were not indicative of a complete lack of improvements,
but more so a poor choice and definition of the indicator as discussed in the section on
monitoring and evaluation, asides from the choice of actions that could not show
improvements in the short time-frame, given the type of financing instrument chosen for
this operation. Thus, the achievements of this area are considered Substantial, based on
75% rate of accomplishment of the set out indicators as well as overall results reached for
this portion of the PDO.

58.     In the health sector, the Policy Action 4 contributed to systematically
monitoring the improvements in maternal care through the implementation of the
protocol for classification of patients according to levels of risk (Acolhimento com
Classificação de Risco – ACCR). Its implementation was an important step in correcting
deficiencies in the quality of service by actions that encourage for a more effective
identification of pregnant women, prompt referral of high risk pregnancies, reduction in
delays to obtaining test results or treatments, asides from an attempt to reduce the practice
of Cesarean sections, which at rate its 60-70 percent rate in the state, is well above the 15
percent recommended by the World Health Organization.7

59.     The results indicator (PDO #4) set out to measure Policy Action 5 aimed at
increasing the number of maternity hospitals implementing the protocol for
classification of admissions by risk from 1 to 3, to cover 75 percent of the SUS
hospitals, was achieved. Specifically, the implementation has occurred in the high-risk


7
    World Health Organization (1985).Appropriate technology for birth. Lancet 326: 436-7.

                                                           16
referral center, Maternidade Nossa Senhora de Lourdes in the capital of Aracaju, and in
José Franco and São Vicente de Paula maternity hospitals. All the trainings and workshops
associated with protocol implementation of staff were completed. This measure
contributed to the inception of a work ethic based on results, the mapping out of mother´s
route within the health system, asides from contributing to improvements in
communication between sectors. However, given the long-term nature of the intervention,
the impact of this action cannot be fully evaluated at the closing of the project.

60.     The results indicator (PDO #5) that set out to reduce the rate of cesarean
sections at the referral Maternity Hospital Nossa Senhora de Lourdes from 55.2 to
50.2 percent encountered difficulties in completion. The rate actually showed a slight
increase to 57.5 percent during the period of intervention. An important impediment for
advancing the development objective included the difficulty in access to hospitals in non-
central locations, resulting in overcrowding due to over-referral of non-high risk cases.
However, the result can also be attributed to the incorrect choice of a hospital selected for
this policy action. Being the only high-risk referral hospital in the State, Nossa Senhora de
Lourdes receives a high number of pregnancies with complications, i.e. those that have a
higher probability of resulting in cesarean sections. Some of the improvements in the
patient routing and referrals, achieved by the implementation of the first health policy
action, could have actually increased the number of high-risk pregnancies reaching only
high-risk facility in the State, which would in fact constitute a positive accomplishment.

61.    Policy Action 6, in the education sector, focused on strengthening school
management and learning outcomes for public schools. Policy Action 6 emphasized
improvement in management through meritocracy and results-based framework in the
public school system by replacing the previous political appointment of school directors
with a merit-based participatory process. As a prior action, a decree establishing a new
management system for the state-run schools was enacted by the Governor, defining a
merit-based and participatory/democratic selection process for school directors.

62.      The goal of reaching 40 percent (i.e. 151) of the 378 state-operated schools in
selecting their directors based on merit and signing of school management
agreements (PDO #6) was achieved, with 159 of the schools now part of this initiative.
Despite the success of this action and the strong commitment from the government in
enhancing meritocracy and management, some factors stand in the way of the sustainability
of this program and require strengthening to assure continuity. They include
competitiveness of future selective processes, improvements in the rigor and quality of the
training programs for pre-selecting directors, improved cooperation with the unions that
initially resisted the process, as well as increased incentive of participation of potential
candidates, hampered somewhat by the lack of information as well as a law forbidding
occupation of other positions while exercising the role of a director.

63.    Policy Action 7 aimed to improve learning in municipal schools through
increasing state technical support for the implementation of the federal Literacy at
the Right Age Program (Programa Nacional de Alfabetização na Idade Certa –
PNAIC). As a prior action, a legal administrative rule was issued and published,

                                             17
establishing guidelines for technical agreements between SEED and the municipal
education systems for supporting, among other programs, the implementation of PNAIC,
an integrated national program aimed at contributing to literacy in children in rural and
urban areas. Within this new policy, SEED provided technical assistance and guidance to
the municipalities participating in the PNAIC in order to guarantee that all municipal
schools achieve the objective, as measured by annual assessments and external evaluations
of all students graduating from 3rd year.

64.     The goal of increasing the number of municipalities receiving technical
assistance from the State of Sergipe in the implementation of PNAIC to 50 percent of
municipalities (38 total) was exceeded, with 73 schools having received the assistance
and become part of the program (PDO #7). However, in further discussions with the
State, shortcomings were identified in this indicator and in its ability to measure the
achievements of the PDO. While adherence to PNAIC improved coordination with the
state to some degree, allowing for a more close-knit support of the municipal schools,
qualitative improvements are difficult to assess in this short-term operation given their
long-term nature, while additionally a difficulty exists in attributing such improvements to
the support received from the state.

Policy Area 3 – Promoting socioeconomic development and inclusive growth in the
interior of the State

65.     Socioeconomic development and inclusive growth in the State´s most remote
and underserved areas were the goals contemplated under the third policy area,
through the promotion of the use of environmentally sustainable agricultural practices,
increased employment and income opportunities for the most vulnerable populations, as
well as strengthening the social assistance system. A set of complementary reforms
contemplated for this area included: (i) technical assistance targeted to small and medium-
size producers and traditional communities, (ii) productive inclusion programs, and (iii)
social protection policies. The achievements of this area focused on five Policy Actions as
measured by the five indicators defined (PDO #8, 9, 10, 11 and 12) by this operation, four
of which (PDO #8, 9, 11, and 12) were fully accomplished (3 of those surpassed their
targets) are considered Substantial, as explained below.

66.     Policy action #8, aimed at improving access to market and income growth, set
out to organize production of family famers into dairy production clusters (Núcleos
de Produção de Leite), as part of the Intensive Production System (Balde Cheio). GoS
through its State Company for Water Resources and Irrigation (COHIDRO) provided
support to rural producers with seed capital, technical assistance, certification of products
and rural extension across selected producer chains, with the aim of enabling greater
market participation, particularly in institutional niches such as the National School
Feeding Program (Programa Nacional de Alimentação Escolar – PNAE), as well as private
markets. The number of small producers included in the dairy production clusters and
selling 90 percent of it to private and public markets increased from 3 to 30 producers,
representing the accomplishment of the results indicator (PDO #8). All of the new
participants received training and continue having ongoing assistance and continuous
support to maintain the infrastructure and sales of their product. An additional

                                             18
improvement as a result of this policy action was the increase in the total production of
milk among the program participants from 2096 liters in 2012 to 3010 liters in 2014.

67.    While this program has brought positive improvements in environmentally
sustainable agriculture practices and in doing so expanded economic opportunities to
the extremely poor as set out in the PDO, the results are very modest as based on the
absolute numbers of beneficiaries paired with the lack sustainability. In order to create an
important positive outcome both for the poor and in green growth, more beneficiaries will
need to be included in the program. The challenge of this lies in the limited funding
available for the program and the labor-intensive ongoing training required to sustain the
intervention.

68.     To address sustainable agriculture and productive inclusion, two
complementary Policy Actions (#9 and #10) were implemented. The first action was
carried out by the State Company for Agriculture and Livestock Development
(EMDAGRO) within the Agro-Ecological Production Program for inclusion of family
famers. EMDAGRO provided technical assistance to train small agricultural producers in
transitioning to sustainable and green practices in some of the most fragile ecosystems of
the region with the aim of helping them overcome social instability in rural areas. The goal
of increasing the number of small producers included in the program and linked to a Social
Control Organization (Organizações de Controle Social) for the purpose of enabling direct
sales to agro-ecological fairs and private and public markets (PDO #9) from 83 (5 women)
to a 100 (15 women) producers was exceeded with 114 producers (out of them 44 women)
currently included in the program.

69.     The program shows great potential in providing alternative income solutions
for most vulnerable groups of producers and can greatly contribute to improvements
in Sergipe´s challenges of inclusion as well as green growth, if scaling of the program
is made possible. However, sustainability of this program faces the same challenges as
the Policy Action above as well as those inherent to the practice, such as the need for
neighboring producers to turn to sustainable farming along with the extensive process of
transition, requiring some initial financial losses. Additionally, deficiencies in M&E
implementation hampered the ability to measure improvements in production and quantify
impact of the program on inclusive growth.

70.     The second action aimed at increasing employment and income opportunities
for the most vulnerable people, especially seasonal orange and sugarcane production
workers. The Secretariat of Social Assistance in coordination with the Secretary of
Education joined efforts to improve employment opportunities of this group by providing
certification to those already enrolled in the Sergipe´s income transfer program Mão Amiga,
a cash transfer program for seasonal workers, in Sergipe Alfabetizado, a program aimed at
reducing illiteracy in the most underserved and poor populations.

71.    The program was an important step in enhancing the cash transfer program
with a sustainability measure by contributing to the graduation of the populations of
vulnerable workers benefitting from Mão Amiga, which had reached 7,673 families of

                                            19
sugarcane cutters and orange pickers (36 and 64 percent of the total, respectively) in 29
municipalities, thus reducing the burden of seasonal unemployment. While the goal of
enrolling and certifying 565 (1/8 of which women) program participants in the literary
program (PDO #10) was not fully accomplished, certifying only 241 participants (74 of
them women), the establishment of the program serves as an important measure to graduate
and enhance opportunities of future seasonal workers of Sergipe. Structural challenges in
achieving this goal included difficulties in coordination with the federal government as
well as delays in commencing the literacy program, which was undergoing some
restructuring. On the participant side, the program faced the challenge of insufficient
interest in the program due to the distance of the location of class, time-commitment, as
well as incentives for realizing the intensive eight-month-long program.

72.     To tackle social protection and prevention of gender-based violence, this
operation included two Policy Actions (#11 and #12). Policy Action 11, implemented
by the Secretary of Social Assistance in coordination with the Ministry of Social
Development set out to improve the implementation of the federal program, Bolsa Família
at the state level by strengthening active search of qualifying beneficiaries to be included
in the CadÚnico. Asides from strengthening this federal program, the initiative was
important in enhancing the use of this instrument by finding and qualifying those registered
in the roster for other state and municipal level social programs. The goal of increasing
the number of families that live on a monthly per capita income of less than R$70/month
included on the roster from 39,582 to 41,561 families (PDO #11) was exceeded by 116%,
reaching 48,396 families in 15 of the Sergipe´s poorest municipalities. This action not only
assisted in finding more families that are now benefitting from federal, state and municipal
social programs, but also contributed to improving the validity of the rosters through cross-
checks and more active management of CadÚnico at the state level.

73.     The Policy Action 12 had an aim of scaling up state and municipal government
support for protection of women threatened by violence and vulnerability. In a
strategy of decentralization for women´s protection, the Special State Secretariat of
Women created in 2011, focused on four of the most affected regions within the interior of
the State, by expanding its network of assistance including the creation of seven regional
centers, Specialized Regional Centers for Victims of Domestic Violence (Centros
Regionalizados Especializados no Atendimento à Mulher Vítima de Violência doméstica
- CREAMs), especially created for women - victims of violence. The centers were an
addition to the already existing expensive network of Social Assistance Reference Centers
(CRAS), but had the specific aim of having staff especially trained and sensitized to assist
in attending to women victim´s psychological, legal, enforcement, and medical needs, to
address the root cause of the hesitance of seeking out help by women victims of violence.

74.    The process of decentralization was essential in creating awareness in the
regions where persisting prejudice and ignorance contribute to high incidence and
lack of interventions of gender-based violence. The goal to increasing the number of
women in situation of violence attended by the network by 50% (PDO #12) was over-
exceeded, with 7630 women benefiting from the program at the end of the program as
opposed to 3985 in the beginning. As a results of the campaign that was launched within

                                             20
the framework of the program, the number of calls to the call centers increased by 36% and
cases of gender-based violence increased by 52% during the same period. While efforts
need to be made to interpret the reasons behind these increases to be able to attribute it to
the program and discard the possibility of actual increases in violence, the initial results of
the program show widespread benefits to this very vulnerable group through an increase in
demand by victims and stronger awareness and effective intervention on the part of the
municipal and state authorities.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     The outcome of the project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory based on the
modest overall relevance and substantial achievements under policy areas 1- 3. The
objective of this operation as expressed by its PDO of improving public sector management
and expanding access to quality public services and economic opportunities for the
extremely poor in the State of Sergipe was achieved. As described in the sections above,
the State´s reforms of its management model were consolidated and in large part become
part of the institutional structure of the administration of each respective sector. Sector
policy management underwent important regulatory and institutional reforms, with key
results achieved in improving quality and access of services for some vulnerable
populations, especially in governance, transparency, and accountability in provision of
public services.

76.     Despite these advances, some of the shortcomings present in the preparation,
design, and implementation of the DPL served as obstacles to reaching the set out
outcomes and the PDO. Failure to incorporate special provisions for correcting the uneven
levels of capacity present in the State´s implementing agencies during preparation partially
compromised the uniformity of the results. Some outcomes lacked scale and sustainability
due to flaws in design, which while serving well for wide-scale actions and leveraging the
reform process, did not take into account the needs of smaller projects, requiring stronger
technical support. As for the results framework, it sometimes placed a stronger focus on
compliance with less important indicators instead of attaining the outcomes in overall
development.

77.     Additionally, despite the advances made within the framework of this DPL,
there are some challenges in attributing all of the results to this operation. This is
attributable to the combination of a short timeframe of the project paired with some Policy
Areas that required long-term implementation in order to show positive changes. Moreover,
some of the selected programs were not in implementation and took a long time before
launching. Therefore, some of the reforms and actions carried out during the operation have
not yet registered their transformational effects and cannot yet be fully evaluated.
Difficulties are further exacerbated by the selection of indicators that in some cases failed
to show impact on PDO within the timeframe of implementation of the project.

78.    The need for monitoring and evaluation created by adherence to the operation,
served as a catalyst for improving the culture of policy-making based on results and

                                              21
best practices. Actions that did not generate the desired results are being revised and will
be addressed in the future operation, with alternative solutions developed to improve results.
Furthermore, lessons learned from the experiences of numerous pilot projects implemented
in this operation were taken into account and will be incorporated for further improvements
of sector policies. This process of learning is a critical element in sustained and continued
improvements in the State´s capacity for strengthening management and effectively
reaching its most vulnerable groups.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

79.     The DPL emphasized social inclusion and poverty reduction through inclusive
growth in most of the policy actions developed under this operation. Some of the most
vulnerable groups and regions were targeted in actions that included: (i) support for
the smallest and thus vulnerable producers of dairy and agriculture (PDO #8 and 9) by
equipping them with tools for growth and access to the market; (ii) support to seasonal
cane-sugar and orange pickers in providing them with skill (alphabetization) and extra
resources necessary to have access to other sources of income (PDO #10); (iii) active
inclusion of the poorest and most remote populations into the CadÚnico roster (PDO #11)
in order to qualify them for the cash-distribution schemes as well as improve their access
to other state and municipal social program; and (iv) providing mobile CEAC units to
remote populations under PDO 4 and supporting municipal schools, where most of the poor
populations are concentrated (PDO #7).

80.     Gender aspects were addressed directly within the health and social protection
policy actions by strengthening maternal health (PDO #4) as well as creating
awareness and protection of women in situations of violence (PDO #12). Indirectly,
special care was taken to include women in many of the productive inclusion policy actions
that could have the potential male bias. This emphasis on women in initiatives with small
agricultural producer and seasonal workers not only prevented the bias completely, by
including the targeted percentage of women, but also contributed to improvements in the
sustainability of some of the programs, such as was in the case of green growth policy
action, given the documented advantages of empowering women with financial and
technical tools to practice sustainable agriculture.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

81.     The operation has contributed to the strengthening of institutional capacity of
the GoS, especially through modernization of key processes of planning, budgeting,
and control functions with the new information system. Some of the reforms, such as
automation and computerization of managerial reports improved not only the institutional
efficiency and time savings, but allowed for greater transparency and evidence-based
policy-making through access to information and reports, not readily available before. In
the case of tax administration, the computerization of the system improved the



                                             22
responsiveness of the system to the problem of accumulating arrears by making
notifications automatic and timely.

82.     Furthermore, unintended important shifts were made in the overall nature of
service provision of the executing agencies from a top-down political approach to that
of management with accountability, customer-centeredness, and focus on results. For
example, revisions of attention of citizen services with the new management system in
Policy Action 1 helped make the system more transparent, giving it more customer-
centered approach. Additionally, improvement in monitoring occurred as the executing
agencies carrying out the reforms were faced with the need to evaluate the baseline,
monitor the results, and achieve the targets established under the program through the
adoption of performance indicators in many places for the first time. This is an important
step for the state in moving towards a results-focused policy framework and building upon
lessons learned.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
N/A

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

83.      The risk to the achieved outcome of deepening Sergipe´s policy action for
inclusive growth is considered to be moderate for a number of reasons. First, the model
is now embedded in the State’s institutional structure and its processes, reaching a high
level of integration and implementation. This is strengthened by the passing and
institutionalization of prior action decrees and policies, making it unlikely that changes in
government administration might undo the effects achieved in this DPL. Executing
agencies and staff have shown commitment to the implemented policies and include a
experienced team that participated directly in the implementation and are now there to
assist in giving continuity to the programs. Furthermore, the policy actions fit seamlessly
into state´s pluriannual investment plans and aligned with many of the federal requirements
and programs, allowing for widespread support at all the levels of the government.

84.     The participatory process of planning and the follow-up reforms were
launched and supported by the highest level of government. The elections that took
place in 2014 had posed a slight risk of changes in policy priorities, which would
potentially move the State away from the previous reform process and/or diminish
Sergipe´s management model. However, while some of the policy priorities might have
changed, many of the institutional mechanisms, which are now well entrenched in the
State´s structure, will be used to implement these changes by the incumbent government.
It is expected that this and the following administrations will follow its predecessor’s
priorities and continue with the reform processes.



                                             23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.     This operation was designed within the overarching context of the
Development Partnership Series. The strategy to implement overarching policy reforms
tackling development and inclusion was devised by the Government in coordination with
the Bank based on long-term participatory planning processes carried out by the State over
the past years and provided the basis for the design of this operation. This was a very timely
operation, properly conceived with reasonable Prior Actions, objectives and desired
outcomes selected within the overarching context of the Sergipe´s development through
inclusion process.

86.     Fiscal position of the State of Sergipe was an issue at entry and underwent
important adjustments to satisfy the Law of Fiscal Responsibility (as described in more
detail in section 2.1). Previous operations had been suspended because of fiscal non-
compliance with funds withheld, preventing project from reaching completion. Prior to
signing the DPL, the fiscal position was recovered and was considered satisfactory.
Despite this, expenditures were considered high and continued under scrutiny throughout
the implementation of the project.

87.     Another area, that required additional caution, proved to be the design of the
results framework and the definition of Indicators. Some had technical design flaws,
such as the inability to fully measure results, tenuous links between Policy Areas and
Results Indicators, and focus on processes rather than results (See section 2.3 for a detailed
description). As a result, the link between the results framework and the PDO had
shortcomings with several indicators not adequately measuring the desired PDO outcome.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

88.      Supervision was carried out with much care given the first time ever use of a
DPL instrument in Sergipe. Close communication between State officials and Bank staff
facilitated the supervision. Asides from formal supervision missions, the Bank team was
in continual contact with the State, to advise on issues and problems as they developed.

89.     Despite the proximity with the client and the regular process of supervision, a
more systematic approach could have helped avoid some of the shortcomings in the
outcomes. This operation would have benefited from a tighter involvement in supervision
with each of the implementing agencies used to correct the bottlenecks in implementation
and M&E as they appeared. The lack of this approach can primarily be attributed to the
short-term nature of the program as well as the type of instrument used for financing it.



                                             24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

90.     Overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory as the overall
project design and implementation support resulted in the desired outcome of the
operation, contributing to a strong and sustainable collaboration with the State of Sergipe
and assisting GoS in deepening its reform processes, while enhancing the results of
execution of management strengthening and development policy actions. However, based
on the fact that there were some shortcomings discussed above, as reflected in the overall
Moderately Satisfactory rating for outcome, the overall Bank performance is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

91.    GoS was fully committed to this operation. The Government of Sergipe was
and remains fully committed to the continuous reform process supported under this
operation within the Sergipe´s Inclusive Development Program. The use of the
participatory process in establishing the development priorities with stakeholders
from all the levels of government and civil society guaranteed commitment,
ownership and improved sustainability.

92.     The State, however, would benefit from further improvements in technical and
institutional capacity for strengthening implementation. The technical capacity of the
government staff while overall of high quality, displayed certain degree of non-uniformity
in its capacity for implementation, especially in the use of internal M&E system.
Ascertaining uniform technical capacity-building across sectors would enhance the
achievement of full impact in future operations and policy reforms. The newly implanted
intergovernmental implementation and coordination mechanisms embedded in the system
will prove to be highly beneficial in the enhancement of the institutional framework, which
in turn will facilitate an efficient implementation process and timely and technically-sound
resolution of arising implementation issues.

93.     Most of the Policy Actions and some of the Results Indicators were part of the
State’s development agenda, enjoying high ownership and political support. Government
overachieved some of the indicators that were well defined and in areas, where it had full
control. However, others indicators did not align neatly with the Government’s true
objectives and /or failed to capture the true aim of the policy, thus suffering some
impediments in implementation. While design flaws of some indicators were recognized
by the State, little was done to correct and mitigate these mistakes within the first DPL
given the unfamiliarity of the Government with this framework. Given the in-depth
discussions and drawing lessons learned from this operation, the Bank will either adjust
the type of lending to assure technical assistance for improved implementation capacity or
select actions/indicators that are within the capacity of the government agencies to
implement and measure on their own.
                                            25
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

94.    The coordinating secretary, i.e. SEPLAG, was highly committed to the
implementation of this operation, assuring excellent communication and coordination
during preparation and implementation. The liaison with the participating secretaries
and the provision of information to Bank counterparts was timely and of high quality.
While all of the implementing agencies had strong commitment to implementation and
most have done an excellent job of implementing this operation, some secretariats
exhibited deficiencies in the use of their internal M&E system for follow-up and early
recognition of potential implementation issues, as discussed in the section above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

95.     The numerous positive outcomes of this operation are a result of strong
commitment of government (especially at the highest levels) to the reform process, the
technical capacity of the government staff, and the continuous effective collaboration with
the Bank team. However, the results framework inconsistencies, along with some
difficulties in the processes of implementation as well as the inability to accurately evaluate
the results of actions of the project, are some of the weak points that need to be addressed
in future operations. Hence, overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     Reform processes require a long-term commitment and have a steep learning
curve, especially at their onset. As the current operation shows, the process of reform is
ongoing and evolving over time, requiring constant adaptation and refinement. Sergipe, as
one of the Northeastern Brazilian states, has a history of management deficiencies and
resulting setbacks in accountability and quality of services provided to citizens. The
participatory approach in identifying the long-standing problem and defining priorities and
actions with the involvement of all stake-holders involved has initiated an important
transformation process within the State, while the DPL has introduced new concepts of
results-based policy, M&E, as well as accountability and ownership. There are important
lessons to be learned, as described below, from Sergipe´s experience that will doubtless be
of use to the next administrations as well as other neighboring governments. Some of the
policy actions using latest state-of-the-art best practices or management tools, such as those
used by the Finance and Planning Secretaries, have produced unexpected leaps, while other
areas, such as the Health and Education, will require deeper scrutiny and further planning
and improvements for strengthening quality of services.

97.     Identifying actions and results indicators for reforms is a challenge. Great care
must be taken in selecting actions that can be more directly attributable to the operation as
well as in technical design of the Results Framework and its implementation. Despite the
fact that this DPL was designed by experienced Bank and State officials, some actions
                                              26
seem to reflect more the overall performance of the state, rather than a direct attribution of
the DPL. Also, some of the Results Indicators included technical flaws, requiring longer-
term horizons for improved measurement, and/or focused on processed rather than on
results, compromising their ability to measure real impact of policy actions on development
(see section 2.3 above for a more detailed explanation).

98.     The experience of the State of Sergipe indicates that there is no unique
template of processes and institutions for a successful management model. The
iterative application of the monitoring system led to considerable adjustments. Supporting
a client with a careful attention to accurately defining the priorities identified by the
implementing agencies at preparation as well as providing technical assistance in setting
up a monitoring framework will be critical in assisting the state in making further progress
in strengthening its management and quality service provision models. Long-term
partnership between the state and Bank will allow for continued collaboration, and mutual
learning and could significantly contribute to the success of the reform process.

99.     Actions that depend on the coordination with other levels of the government
require special attention. Sergipe´s DPL highlighted the need to exercise additional care
in identifying risks in delays associated with the coordination, approvals, and other
bureaucratic issues associated with the engagement of agencies from other levels of the
government, not directly involved in the implementation of the program. One suggestion
to avoid bottlenecks and delays in coordination would be to reinforce and/or sign
agreements between the state and other levels of government prior to the signing of the
program, or, alternatively, to identify alternative courses of action upon materialization of
the risks.

100. Replication to other States at similar development level. Many of the Brazilian
northwestern states face similar issues in management deficiencies and provision of quality
services, especially for vulnerable populations. This is especially the case in the Health
and Education sectors, where strict adherence to national models and/or policies creates
inflexibility and inability of management to efficiently respond to the challenges of the
local reality. Some of them can draw important lessons on how to implement similar
reforms, especially with successful policies such as the management program for
improvement of quality of government-citizen services or the virtual and integrated process
for the collection of tax arrears, which constitutes an innovation in the field of combating
tax evasion. The challenge will be for the Bank to find an appropriate manner to
disseminate the case of Sergipe more broadly and replicate this experience effectively
elsewhere, taking into account the dissimilarities between the states as they relate to size,
economic profile and population.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
N/A
(b) Co-financiers
N/A

                                             27
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                      28
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support / Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Tania Dmytraczenko           Senior Economist                   GHNDR Team Leader
Leandro Oliveira Costa       Economist                          GEDDR Team Member
Ezau Pontes                  Senior Health Specialist           GHNDR Team Member
                             Senior Operations Officer
Daniela Pena De Lima                                            GHNDR Team Member
Gunars Platais               Senior Environmental Economist     GENDR Team Member
Maria de Fatima de Sousa     Senior Rural Development
                                                                GFADR Team Member
Amazonas                     Specialist
                                                                         Economic and
Rafael Chelles Barroso       Senior Economist                   GMFDR
                                                                         Financial Analysis
Eduardo Franca De Souza      Financial Management Specialist             Financial Mgt.
Tatiana Cristina O. de Abreu
                             Finance Officer                    WFALN Disbursement
Souza
                             Finance Analyst                    WFALN Disbursement
Patricia Rodrigues de Melo
                            Senior Social Development
Alberto Coelho Gomes Costa                                      GSURR Team Member
                            Speciallist
Diego Arias Carballo        Senior Agriculture Economist        GFADR Team Member
Julia Conter Ribeiro        Senior Finance Assistant            WFALN Disbursement
Daniel Alvarez Estrada      Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist   GGODR Team Member
Magnus Lindelow             Practice Manager
Mariana Margarita Montiel Senior Counsel                        LEGLE Lawyer
                            Lead Financial Management
Joseph Kizito Mubiru                                            GGODR Financial Mgt.
                            Specialist
Marize De Fatima Santos     Program Assistant                   GHNDR Team Member
Angela Nieves Marques Porto Consultant
Estela Maria Souza Costa
                            Consultant
Neves
Jose M. Rodriguez Alvarez Consultant
Maria Madalena dos Santos Consultant
Supervision/ICR
Daniel Dulitzky             Practice Manager                    GHNDR    GP Manager
Tania Dmytraczenko          Senior Economist                    GHNDR    Team Leader
Daniela Pena De Lima        Senior Operations Officer           GHNDR    Quality Team
Ezau Pontes                 Senior Health Specialist            GHNDR    ICR Team Leader
Leandro Oliveira Costa      Economist                           GEDDR    Team Member
Daniel Alvarez Estrada      Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.        GGODR    Team Member
Diego Arias Carballo        Senior Agriculture Economist        GFADR    Team Member



                                               29
Maria de Fatima de Sousa   Senior Rural Development
                                                           GFADR Team Member
Amazonas                   Specialist
Luiza Guaraciaba           Program Assistant               LCC5C Team Member
Renata Pereira de Mello    Team Assistant                  LCC5C Team Member
Isabela Bablumian          Consultant                            ICR Author
Jin Woo Chung              Consultant

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                         USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                           FY12                31.31               172,719.71
                           FY13                36.38               174,716.13
                           Total:              67.69               347,435.84
Supervision/ICR
                           FY14                18.68               111,804.95
                           FY15                 9.94                50,406.09
                           FY16                 2.85                 8,906.82
                           Total:              31.47               171,117.86




                                          30
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                      31
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     This Annex summarizes the full version of the Borrower’s Completion Report
which was made available to the Bank on February 27, 2015. The full version (in
Portuguese) can be accessed online.

2.      The Borrower’s report is divided into four sections. The first section provides a
brief introduction to the project and its context. The second section presents the policies
and prior actions supported by the operation. Subsequently, the third section deals with the
implementation of the operation and presents the results from the DPL by presenting
achievements in the monitored areas, including a detailed description of the results and
targets, as well as the reasons for compliance and non-compliance of the goals. The results
show a significant improvement of most of the indicators monitored. With regard to the
observed improvements, it is highlighted that no evidence exists that links the improvement
of the indicators with the operation. However, it is believed that the World Bank’s support
had a positive impact on the performance of the indicators monitored. The last section
provides the Borrower’s conclusion highlighting important outcomes in terms of advancing
social development in Sergipe and of delivering more inclusive and transparent public
services.

A – ACTIONS CARRIED OUT

The Development Policy Loan (DPL) covered three policy areas: (i) consolidation of fiscal
management and public management innovation; (ii) promotion of improved access and quality
of public services; and (iii) promotion of socio-economic development with inclusive growth. The
IBRD loan supported the following specific goals designed for the three areas:

Policy 1 - Consolidation of fiscal management and innovation in public management

1.1 To improve the quality of services provided to citizens

Introduction of the “One Step” (Guichê Único) model to cater to all the requests by members
of the public for the services available at each of the Citizens Service Centers (CEACs). The
main idea of this system is to simplify and standardize the various processes in order to save
time both for clients and officials.

Despite the centralization of the services in a single environment, the various services
delivered in the CEACs were previously split between different “windows” according to the
type of service required. This meant that members of the public had to present themselves at
a number of different windows depending on the particular service they required. The
implementation of the “One Stop” system using single windows and single access codes
speeded up customer service and has proved to be user-friendly, saving time and
inconvenient waiting. While to date the system has been implemented only in the Mobile
CEAC, it is planned to deploy it also in the Shopping RioMar CEAC in 2015.

1.2. To modernize key planning, budgeting, execution and control processes


                                              32
Deployment of management reports in the i-Gesp was a very important milestone in the recent
process aimed at modernizing the State of Sergipe´s public expenditure management
procedures. This IT solution, focused on State Public Management, has provided greater
agility, flexibility, integration, control, transparency and quality to the various procedures.
The provision of management reports has been carried out gradually, but consistently, and
the system has proved to be reliable. Over 15 reports have been made available and new
modules are now in operation, such as the Contracts Management Module. In 2015 this
system will be fully adapted to the new public accounting scheme.

1.3. To increase revenues by combating tax evasion

The deployment of tax arrears collection instruments to increase revenue: the introduction of
the State Register of Unpaid Credits (the “State CADIN”), registration of debtors in the
SERASA and the process for outstanding debt virtualization all aim to increase the State's
ability to quickly recover unpaid taxes, and also encourage timely settlement of future voluntary
payments.

The projects are on course and fall within the implementation schedule. However,
despite good results, it is difficult to measure the effectiveness of the scheme due to the
existence of the REFIS Tax Recovery Program. During the project deployment period there
was a REFIS, and a further one is expected during the current Financial Year.

The adoption of measures to recover arrears of tax prior to the launch of the collection
instruments (actions of preventive collection), as well as the arrears already recovered at the
administrative stage, help to reduce the State´s stock of outstanding debt due to the reduced
number of new inscriptions.

The development, with PROMOFAZ resources, of the Tax Credit with the Possibility of Recovery
Classification System, planned to be introduced in 2015, will also contribute to better
collection management.

Policy 2 – Promotion of improved access and quality of public services

2.1. To improve the quality of services of high risk maternal/newborn health care, in
response to a major cause of maternal mortality

Implementation of the maternal and newborn health program, the Rede Cegonha (Stork
Network), seeks to reduce the caesarean section rates at Our Lady of Lourdes
Maternity Clinic. This program, designed to upgrade and improve maternal/newborn
health care, involves actions ranging from pregnant women being attended at a Family
Health Clinic to delivery services performed in maternity hospitals for those with a risk
rating. This program also seeks to encourage: (i) family presence at time of delivery; (ii)
natural childbirth; (iii) breastfeeding; and (iv) donations of milk to the “milk bank”.
As a result of the actions implemented, three State-managed maternity hospitals adhered
to the risk classification admissions protocol. Risk Classification for Admittance (ACCR)
met the target for this indicator in December 2013.

                                               33
In addition, the State Government signed a Public Action Contract (CAP) with Sergipe
municipalities and the Federal Government (the Union) to reorganize and define SUS
operations at the regional level. This involves all the federative entities (States + the Federal
District) being responsible for their own accountability, for decentralization of care and for
setting goals to attain health indicators.

2.2. To improve the management of the schools network in the State of Sergipe

Selection of school principals by merit: with the aim of scaling up school management policy,
the State Government established a new system for selecting State system school managers
based on merit, taking into account training, planning, target-setting and consultative processes.

Two other instruments have been implemented to improve school management in the State:
(i) the signing of a Management Term of Commitment (the principal to be responsible for
establishing a set of educational goals and actions as defined and agreed between the network and
the individual schools); and (ii) an Index Guide (Índice Guia) to establish monitoring and
evaluation procedures for the different facets of school activity based on the systematic
tracking of daily school routines and their outcomes.

By December 2013, the State Government had succeeded in exceeding the planned target (151
schools). 159 State schools possessed school principals selected under the new merit system
who had signed the relevant terms of commitment.

2.3. To improve primary school education in the municipal networks

State Government technical support for the implementation of the National Literacy at the
Right Age Program (PNAIC) in the municipalities: The PNAIC is a comprehensive
program designed to teach the Portuguese language and mathematics to students up to the
3rd year of primary (elementary) school, and to all children attending municipal and state
schools in Brazil. This program consists of a number of different actions and teaching
materials that contribute to literacy training in two ways: (i) program management is shared
between the Federal Government, States and municipalities; and (ii) the students´ right to
learn and develop is assessed on the basis of annual appraisals.

Given the weakness of the municipalities in the education sphere, the partnership between
State and municipality also seeks to improve educational performance through the use of
new teaching tools. The State is responsible for coordinating the program and for providing technical
support and assistance to municipalities to enable them to implement the PNAIC in Sergipe.

By 2013 the State Government had provided technical support for PNAIC implementation
in 73 municipalities, thus exceeding the planned target of 38 municipalities and, as a result,
contributing to improving learning opportunities in primary schools in the Sergipe
municipalities.




                                                 34
Policy 3 – To promote socio-economic development together with inclusive growth

3.1. To strengthen the milk and dairy products production chain by focusing
on family farming

The inclusion of family farmers in milk production facilities. Social inclusion based on
strengthening the milk production chain in the semi - arid zone of the State has involved
improving the organization of production. This was done by creating intensive milk
production centers for family farmers, as well as by improving the products´sanitary
conditions. Sergipe State is replicating the Balde Cheio (Full Bucket) production model
involving intensive milk production, to other organizations, with fairly satisfactory
results.

The expansion of the model, which seeks to place small farmer milk products in the formal
market, thereby increasing employment and income in these communities, calls for intensive
training and the structuring of a new model of organized production.

The efforts of the State Government to apply the intensive milk production system based
on the Balde Cheio model led to the establishment, by the end of 2013, of 30 production
units in the Milk Production Center framework.

3.2. To promote the use of environmentally sustainable agricultural practices ("green
growth")

An     increased    number      of     small      producers    participating       in the
Agroecological Production Program: the organic farming methods seek inter alia to ensure
economic and ecological sustainability, to maximize social benefits and reduce
dependency on non-renewable energy sources.

The increase in the number of small producers, through Social Control Organizations (OCS) in
this growing product market, produces a number of benefits: to ability to take advantage of
the business opportunity to include low-income workers; to train technicians and farmers
in organic production systems; to improve environmental quality and the preservation of
natural resources; to broaden the marketing opportunities for organic products; and, finally,
to produce better household incomes for producers, and ensure food security for consumers.

With the aim of promoting the use of environmentally friendly farming practices, the State
of Sergipe is currently developing training and knowledge-outreach activities in this area for
small producers through the Agroecological Production Program. By the end of 2013 the
State had 114 producers participating in the Program and directly marketing their
products. This exceeded the target of 100 producers forecast in the DPL.

3.3. Expanding job and income opportunities for the socioeconomically vulnerable
population (seasonal sugarcane workers and orange pickers)




                                             35
Increased number of illiterate workers in the Helping Hand Program (Programa Mão Amiga)
enrolled in the Sergipe Literacy Program. One of the main production inclusion initiatives of
the State government in the rural area has been the Helping Hand Program. This aims to
pursue measures to alleviate the effects of seasonal unemployment due to the lack of work
during the dry season for sugarcane workers and orange pickers. The Program has led to
income generation, provision of food support, skills development and improved quality
of life for the affected population.

The Helping Hand Program provides an allowance of R$190.00 during the four dry months
of the year. In counterpart the worker or a member of his/her family is required to attend
vocational training courses and / or citizenship, health and agriculture class modules.

The inclusion of illiterate rural workers covered by the Helping Hand Program in the State
Literacy Program represents a further step towards breaking the existing poverty cycle in the
poorest regions of Sergipe.

3.4. To strengthen the Unified Social Assistance System (SUAS)

Increasing the number of families included in the Unified Register (CadÚnico). The project
aims to provide municipal co-financing under the Unified Social Assistance System (SUAS)
to strengthen the activities concerned with the "active search" of people that are not included
in the CadÚnico. The decision of the State Government to co-finance this initiative highlights
the progress made in strengthening such actions at the municipal level by making it possible to
transfer funds from the State Social Assistance Fund (FEAS) to the Municipal Social
Welfare Fund (FMAS) for co-financing improvements in management, services, programs,
projects and benefits (e.g. resulting from the “Active Search” scheme).

By supporting "Active Search" and other initiatives (including municipal co-
financing), the State Government succeeded by the end of 2013 in expanding the number of
families living in the 15 poorest municipalities of the state and included in the CadÚnico to
48,396, thus exceeding the estimated target of 41,561 families.

3.5. To expand access of women in situations of violence to protection and
prevention programs and better quality care

Increased number of women victims of violence assisted by the State network. In July 2009,
the State of Sergipe joined the National Pact to Combat Violence against Women ,
which aims to consolidate the National Policy to Combat Violence against Women
through the implementation of comprehensive public policies throughout the entire national
territory.

In line with the Pact´s guidelines, Sergipe has made efforts to expand the Women´s Referral
Care Centers network by decentralizing specialized care to the municipalities. These centers
provide services for women in situations of violence or vulnerability and serve as shelters. They
also provide specialized investigations, as well as services to bring offenders to account and
offer them rehabilitation.

                                               36
The network has expanded in Sergipe and in 2013 catered for 7,630 women, surpassing the
estimated goal of 7,000 care services provided.

B - RESULTS ACHIEVED FROM THE DPL PROGRAM ACTIONS

75% of the targets agreed with the World Bank were achieved. Only 25% of the expected
results of the DPL I have not been reached. These relate to the following:

(a) the ratio between the income from outstanding debt recoveries during the year vis-á-vis
the total stock of outstanding debt (prior action 1.3);

(b) the caesarean section rate in the Our Lady of Lourdes Maternity Clinic, according to the
guidelines of Government Directive 3477/1998 (prior action 2.a.1); and

(c) the number of seasonal workers benefiting from the Helping Hand Program accepted in the
Sergipe Literacy Program (prior action 3.b.2).




REASONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH 25% OF THE GOALS


►Deployment of Tax Arrears Collection Instruments to increase revenue.

The reason why the target of the indicator of prior action 1.3 was not reached was due to the
National Council of Finance Secretaries (CONFAZ) authorizing the REFIS Fiscal Recovery
Program in 2013. This program allows fines and the tax debt interest to be waived, thus
compromising the ability of the State to recover debts in accordance with regular
procedures. The indicator description provides for the recovery of the amounts recorded
as outstanding debt, minus the REFIS amounts.


                                             37
►Deployment of the Rede Cegonha to reduce the caesarean section rate in Our Lady of
Lourdes Maternity Hospital

The target for reducing the caesarean section operations rate at Our Lady of Lourdes Maternity
Hospital (MNSL) was not reached due to a number of factors, including: (i) difficulty of access
and/or care in hospitals in other locations; (ii) increased demand due to non-high risk pregnant
women being referred to the MNSL; and (iii) the shortages of medical staff resulting in
maternity shifts in the network being cancelled.
The latter situation (a common structural problem in Sergipe´s health establishment) is tackled
by sending pregnant women who could be treated in normal maternity clinics to “high-risk”
reference hospitals. As a result, the MNSL suffers from issues of overcrowding and is unable to
monitor labor systematically, thus leading to caesarian sections being performed.
The assessment made it possible to define a number of recommendations to be
implemented in Sergipe such as: (i) awareness-raising of professional medical staff at the
MNSL; (ii) compliance with the official reference flow procedures for
referring pregnant women; and (iii) monitoring implementation of the above
recommendations and the effectiveness of the medical personnel.
We are aware that the choice of caesarean delivery is a cultural issue linked to purchasing
power. The percentage of caesarian births in Sergipe (37% in 2013) is lower than the national
average (55.6% in 2012). A study of the historical series however reveals an upward
trend in the State, in line with the national figures.


►Increased number of illiterate workers benefiting from the Helping Hand Program
and approved in the Sergipe Literacy Program

According to the State Government, only 42% of the agreed DPL target for the Helping
Hand Program (literacy training for beneficiaries of the Literate Sergipe Program) indicator was
reached.
The failure to reach the agreed target was due to a number of problems in FY 2013. The
Sergipe Literacy and Brazil Literacy programs underwent a series of changes in their scope
of action which ruled out any remedial steps that could be taken to achieve our objective.
The target was missed due partly to the following:
       The delay in starting the Literate Sergipe Program (SEED-SE). Training
        activities were due to commence in April 2013 but were delayed until September
        2013 due to various problems related to the bidding processes;
       The list supplied by the State Secretariat of Inclusion, Social Welfare
        and Development (SEIDES) to the Sergipe Literacy Program contained the names
        of several workers who were already enrolled in other modules of the Sergipe Program,
        which ruled out their enrollment in the Brazil Literacy Program (SBA);
       Workers residing in places of difficult access where Sergipe Literacy Program groups
        were non-existent;


                                              38
        Workers spread out thinly in various regions of the state made it difficult,
         in some cases, to form viable groups of trainees;
        Orange pickers migrated to other municipalities or to other jobs when they were
         unemployed. Most of these workers in fact possessed official work documents
         (carteira assinada) and worked in different farms or smallholdings in the same
         municipality;
        The difficulty of attending classes regularly during the cane-cutting and orange picking
         season.
Given the above problems, SEIDES (jointly with SEED) is reshaping the program in order to
attract sugarcane workers and orange pickers to literacy classes.

C – CONCLUSION

The projects agreed under the Development Policies for the State of Sergipe Program with
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), using the
Development Policy Loan (DPL) modality, achieved important outcomes in terms of
advancing social development in Sergipe and of delivering more inclusive and transparent public
services.

        Goals                                  Outcome                                       Potential Impacts

 1. Consolidation of Fiscal Management and Innovations in Public Management

 1.1 To              - To increase the percentage of responses in writing (using    - Greater transparency in customer
 improve             encouraging language) to complaints by members of the public   care.
 the quality         about the services received
 of services                                                                        - Enhanced customer satisfaction
                     Baseline (October 2011): 15% of complaints
 provided
                     answered in writing using encouraging language.
 to citizens
                     Target (December 2013): 90% of the complaints responded
                     to answered in writing using encouraging language.

                     Result evaluation: 100% (TARGET MET)
 1.2 To              - To reduce preparation times of management reports            - More agility in obtaining and
 modernize key                                                                      analyzing budgetary and financial
 planning,           Baseline (December 2010): reports unavailable in the           information.
 budgeting,          previous system (SAFIC)
 execution and                                                                      - Reduced budget and
 control             Target (December 2013): 4 reports issued immediately           financial operational costs.
 procedures          (Integrated Public Management System i-Gesp)

                     Result evaluation: 4 reports issued immediately (TARGET MET)
                                                                                    - Greater reliability of data in the
                                                                                    unified system.




                                                   39
 1.3 To increase       - To increase the ratio of revenues from the recovery of outstanding    - Positive impact on revenue recovery.
 revenues by           debt during the year vis-á-vis the total stock of outstanding debt.
 combating tax                                                                                 - Enhanced taxation equality
 evasion               Baseline (December 2011): 0.43%

                       Target (Financial Year 2013): 0.52%

                       Result evaluation: 0.39% (TARGET NOT REACHED )



 Policy 2. To promote improved access and quality of public services

 Health

2.a.To improve         - To increase the number of hospitals that admit patients              -Expansion of
the quality of         according to the risk classification protocol (Risk Rated              specialized services, with the
maternal/child care Admittance - ACCR)                                                        inclusion of patients
services for high-risk                                                                        not previously attended
pregnant women         Baseline (December/2011):1
                                                                                              -Positive impacts
                      Target (December/2013): 3 (75% of the State-managed                     expected regarding the
                      maternity clinics were operating normally in 2013)                      quality of life of high-risk
                                                                                              mothers and newborns
                      Result evaluation: 3 hospitals implementing the ACCR
                      Protocol (TARGET MET)                                                    - Reduction of deaths attributed to
                                                                                              high-risk pregnancies



                      - To reduce the rate of Caesarean sections in Our Lady of
                      Lourdes Maternity Hospital, according to the guidelines set
                      forth in Government Directive 3,477 / 1998

                      Baseline (December 2011): 55.2%

                      Target (December 2013): 50.2%

                      Result evaluation: 57.46% (TARGET NOT MET)



 Education

 2.b.1. To             - To increase the number of State school principals selected by
 improve               merit and possessing a signed management contract                       - Greater transparency
 management in                                                                                 and participation in
 the schools           Baseline (December 2011): zero
                                                                                               school management.
 belonging to
 the State of          Target (December2013):151 principals selected and terms of
 Sergipe               commitment signed (40% of 378 State schools)
 network
                       Result evaluation: 159 principals selected and with signed terms of
                       commitment (TARGET MET)




                                                        40
2.b.2. To improve -To increase the number of municipalities receiving State              - Improved match between students
educational levels in technical support for implementation of the PNAIC                  ‘ages and school grades, thereby
the municipal                                                                            contributing to better learning processes
primary schools       Baseline (December 2011): zero                                     in the municipal school networks.

                    Target (December 2013):38 (50% of all the municipalities in
                    the State of Sergipe)



                     Result evaluation: 73 (TARGET MET)                                   - Improved State/municipal co-
                                                                                          ordination in the implementation of
                                                                                          educational policy

Policy 3. Promotion of socio-economic development with inclusive growth

Market access and income growth

3.a.1. To            -To       increase     the      number     of trained       small    - Promotion of technical skills of
strengthen the       production units included in the Milk Production Centers, selling    family farmers.
milk and dairy       90% of their milk production to the private and public /
products             institutional market.                                                - Positive impact on the quality of the
production chain                                                                          products
focused on family    Baseline (March 2012): 3 production units
farming                                                                                   - Improved incomes for dairy
                     Target (December 2013): 30 production units                          farmers on small farms

                     Result evaluation : 30 (TARGET MET)
Sustainable agriculture, productive inclusion and gender

3.b.1. To promote    -To increase the number of small producers included in the           - Knowledge dissemination,
environmentally      Agroecological Production Program and associated with                sustainable agricultural
sustainable          the Social Control Organizations, and who sell organic               practices
agricultural         products directly in organic produce fairs and private public
practices -"green    / institutional markets.
growth"
                     Baseline (December 2011): 83 producers (including 5 women)           - Increased supply of organic
                                                                                          products in the Sergipe market.
                     Target (December 2013): 100 producers, (including
                     15 women)
                                                                                          - Impact on the incomes of the
                                                                                          producers resulting from being able to
                     Result evaluation : 114 producers (including 44
                                                                                          offer wider range of products
                     Women (TARGET MET)




                                                    41
3.b.2.To broaden job     - To increase the number of seasonal workers benefiting          - Increased literacy rate among the
opportunities and        from the Helping Hand Program accepted in the Sergipe            people attending classes.
income for the           Literacy Program
population in                                                                             - Improved technical and
conditions of            Baseline (February 2012): Zero                                     professional    training for the
socioeconomic                                                                               beneficiaries
vulnerability            Target (December 2013): 565 workers accepted (1/8
(seasonal agricultural   of them women).                                                  - Guaranteed income in off-season
workers in the                                                                              periods for seasonal farm workers
sugarcane and            Result evaluation: 241, including 74 women (TARGET NOT
                                                                                            (sugar cane and oranges sectors).
orange growing           MET)
sectors)

 Social protection, gender inclusion and eradication of extreme poverty

3.c.1To strengthen       - To increase the number of families with monthly per capita     - Increased number of
the Unified Social       incomes of below R$70.00 living in the 15 poorest                beneficiaries of social programs
Assistance System        municipalities of the state, included in the Single Registry.    who had previously been
(SUAS) – “Active                                                                          unidentified by the Government´s
Search” for inclusion    Baseline (January 2012): 39,582 families                         programs.
in the Unified
Register                 Target (December 2013): 41,561 families
(CadÚnico).
                         Result evaluation: 48,396 (TARGET MET)



 3.c.2. To increase      - To increase the number of women in situations of              - Increased number of specialized
 State and               violence attended in the Network for the Assistance of          services for combating
 municipal               Women Victims of Violence                                       violence against women.
 government
 support for             Baseline (March 2012): 3,985 women attended                     - Preventive effect
 programs aimed                                                                          Against violence against women.
 at the protection       Target (December 2013): 7,000 women attended
 of women in
 situations of           Result evaluation: 7630 (TARGET MET)                            - Promotion of inter-gender equality.
 violence and
 vulnerability




                                                       42
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners / Stakeholders
N/A




                                      43
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1.    Borrower´s Final Report - Relatório do Encerramento
2.    SEPLAG Improvements in Citizen Services Presentation - SEPLAG Política de
      Atendimento Ao Cidadão No Estado De Sergipe
3.    The Center of Citizen Services – Strategic Map – CEAC – Mapa Estratégico
4.    Inclusion in Social Services through Unified Registry Report (CadÚnico)
5.    Summary of implementation of actions in access to better quality public education –
      Resumo da Experiência com a Implantação das Ações Pactuadas com o Banco
      Mundial
6.    Mão Amiga - Alphabetization Program Results – Resultado do Programa Mão
      Amiga
7.    Report – Women´s Special Secretary - Relatório Simplificado sobre o cenário atual
      dos dados referentes ao número de Mulheres Vítimas de Violência Doméstica
8.    Aide Memoire – Identification Mission - Ajuda Memória – Missão de Identificação
9.    Aide Memoire – Preparation Mission - Ajuda Memória – Missão de Preparação
10.   Aide Memoire – Evaluation Mission - Ajuda Memória – Missão de Avaliação
11.   Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) – September 7, 2013
12.   Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) – March 20, 2014
13.   Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) – August 18, 2014
14.   Loan Agreement Document - Sergipe Development Through Inclusion
15.   Program Appraisal Document – IBRD Program Document for a Proposed Loan in
      the Amount of Equivalent to US$150 Million to the State of Sergipe
16.   Program Information Document - Sergipe Development Through Inclusion




                                           44
Annex 7. Table: Proposed Policy Actions for Sergipe Development through
Inclusion

    OBJECTIVES            POLICY ACTIONS                                EXPECTED RESULTS
               Policy Area 1: Consolidating Fiscal Management and Public Sector Innovations
    1.1 Improve the       Policy Action 1: The State of Sergipe         Increase responsiveness to citizen
    Quality of            standardizes services oriented to respond to  complaints in the Citizen Service
    Government-Citizen citizens’ needs/complaints by issuing (a)        Centers (CEAC)
    Services              Decree No. 28837 of October 18, 2012          Baseline (Oct 2011): 15 percent of
                          regulating a “one-stop shop” model (guichê    complaints receive a written
                          único) – Published in the Diário Oficial do   explanation in the Riomar and Rua
                          Estado on October 22, 2012) and (b) Portaria  do Turista CEACs
                          No. 3242 of October 29, 2012 establishing the Endline (Dec 2013): 90 percent of
                          Charter of Citizens’ Attention Services       complaints receive a written
                          (Published in the Diário Oficial do Estado on explanation in the same CEACs
                          October 31, 2012)

                             Responsibility: State Secretariat of Planning
    1.2 Modernize Key        Policy Action 2: The State of Sergipe issues       Reduce the time to produce agreed
    Planning,                Decree No. 28830 of October 16, 2012 making        upon managerial reports through i-
    Budgetary,               the use of i-Gesp (which includes the processes    Gesp
    Execution and            of (i) planning, (ii) budgeting, (iii) budgetary   Baseline (Dec 2010): reports not
    Control Processes        and financial execution, (iv) public accounting,   available under the previous
                             and (v) agreements management) compulsory          system (SAFIC)
                             within the executive branch, with an               Endline (Dec 2013):4 reports8
                             implementation schedule for the price database,    produced automatically
                             debt management, integration with human
                             resource systems, purchases and assets
                             monitoring modules (Published in the Diário
                             Oficial do Estado on October 18, 2012)

                             Responsibility: State Secretariat of Finance
    1.3 Increase             Policy Action 3: The State of Sergipe issues       Increase in revenues collected from
    Revenues Through         Decree No. 28843 of October 19, 2012               tax arrears as a share of the stock
    Combating Fiscal         regulating a virtual and integrated process –      of tax arrears
    Avoidance                between the State Secretariat of Finance, the      Baseline (Dec 2011): 0.43 percent
                             Office of the Attorney General of Sergipe, and     Endline (Dec 2013): 0.52 percent
                             the Judiciary – for collection of tax arrears
                             (Published in the Diário Oficial do Estado on
                             October 23, 2012)

                             Responsibility: State Secretariat of Finance,
                             Office of Attorney General of Sergipe
                          Policy Area 2: Increasing access to better quality public services
    2.a Health
    2.a.1 Improve the        Policy Action 4: The State Secretariat of          Increase the number of maternity
    Quality of Maternal      Health publishes an Amendment to the Public        hospitals implementing the
    and Newborn              Action Contract (Termo Aditivo ao Contrato de      protocol for classification of
    Health Services for      Ação Pública– TCAP),which includes the             admissions by risk (Acolhimento
    High Risk                priority maternal and newborn health program       com Classificação de Risco–
    Pregnancies              Rede Cegonha, integrating municipal actions        ACCR)



8
The four reports are: (1) Asset Sales Control, (2) Collected Revenue Comparison, (3) Debt Amortization
Comparison and (4) Construction/ Facilities/ Property Acquisitions for Use by the State Administration.

                                                       45
    OBJECTIVES             POLICY ACTIONS                                     EXPECTED RESULTS
                           and services under the SUS-Sergipe (Published      Baseline (Dec 2011): 1
                           in the Diário Oficial do Estado on April 25,       Endline (Dec 2013): 3 (75 percent
                           2012)                                              of maternity hospitals under state
                                                                              management that were operating
                           Policy Action 5: The annual regional plans,        under normal conditions in 2013)9
                           which include implementation of Rede               Reduce the cesarean section rate at
                           Cegonha, are approved by the State-and-            the referral Maternity Hospital
                           Municipal Committee (Colegiado                     Nossa Senhora de Lourdes
                           Interfederativo Estadual – CIE) (Issuance of       according to the guidelines in
                           deliberations for the regions of Aracaju,          Portaria No.3477/1998
                           Itabaiana, Estância, Nossa Senhora do              Baseline (Dec 2011): 55.2 percent
                           Socorro, Propriá, Lagarto and Nossa Senhora        Endline (Dec 2013): 50.2 percent
                           da Glória, May 24 to June 22, 2012). The
                           strength of the action is further supported by
                           the Ministry of Health’s validation of the plans
                           through publication of a PortariaNo.3069 of
                           December 27, 2012 (Published in the in the
                           Diário Oficial da União on December 28,
                           2012)

                           Responsibility: State Secretariat of Health,
                           Ministry of Health
    2.b Education
    2.b.1 Improve          Policy Action 6: The State of Sergipe issues       Increase the number of school
    School Management      Decree No. 29120 of March 6, 2013                  directors selected by merit and
    in State-Run Schools   implementing a new school management model         with signed management
                           based on use of result-based management            agreements
                           strategies and selection of school directors by    Baseline (Dec 2011): zero
                           merit and through a participatory/ democratic      Target (Dec 2013): 151 school
                           processes (Published in the Diário Oficial do      directors selected and with signed
                           Estado on March 8, 2013)                           management agreements (40
                                                                              percent of 378 state schools)
                           Responsibility: State Secretariat of Education
    2.b.2 Improve          Policy Action 7: The State of Sergipe issues       Increase the number of
    learning results in    PortariaNo.6146 of October 04, 2012                municipalities receiving technical
    municipal              establishing the State-and-Municipal               assistance from the State in the
    elementary schools     collaboration to support implementation of the     implementation of PNAIC
                           Literacy at the Right Age Program (PNAIC) in       Baseline (Dec 2011): zero
                           municipal schools (Published in the Diário         Target (Dec 2013): 38
                           Oficial do Estado on October 10, 2012)             municipalities (50 percent of all
                                                                              municipalities in the State)
                           Responsibility: State Secretariat of Education




9
 One of the State’s five public maternities will be operating in temporary quarters while a new facility is
under construction.

                                                     46
 OBJECTIVES             POLICY ACTIONS                                   EXPECTED RESULTS
               Policy Area 3: Promoting Socioeconomic Development and Inclusive Growth
 3.a Access to Market and Income Growth
 3.a.1 Strengthen the Policy Action 8: The State of Sergipe issues       Increase the number of trained
 Cattle Milk and        Decree No. 28733 of August 27, 2012              small producer units included in
 Dairy Production       organizing production to include family          the Núcleos de Produção de Leite
 Cluster with Focus     farmers into the Dairy Production Clusters       and selling at least 90 percent of
 on Family              (Núcleos de Produção de Leite), which are part their production to private and
 Agriculture            of the Intensive Production System (Balde        public/institutional markets10
                        Cheio) that aims to improve quality by           Baseline (Dec 2011): 3
                        providing sanitary certification of dairy        Endline (Dec 2013): 30
                        products and genetic enhancement of the herd
                        in the irrigated perimeter of Jabiberi(Published
                        in the Diário Oficial do Estado on August 30,
                        2012)

                         Responsibility: State Company for Water
                         Resources and Irrigation
 3.b Sustainable Agriculture and Productive Inclusion
 3.b.1 Promote Use of Policy Action 9: The State of Sergipe enacts           Increase the number of small
 Environmentally         Law No. 7270 on November 17, 2011, creating         producers included in the Program
 Sustainable             the Program for Agroecological Production for       for Agroecological Production and
 Agriculture             inclusion of family farmers and establishing        linked to the Social Control
 Practices – ‘Green      instruments to give incentives for                  Organizations selling directly in
 Inclusive Growth’       environmentally sustainable production              agroecological fairs and to private
                         (Published in the Diário Oficial do Estado on       and public/institutional markets24
                         November 23, 2011)                                  Baseline (Dec 2011): 83
                                                                             producers, 5 women
                          Responsibility: State Company for Agriculture      Endline (Dec 2013): 100
                          and Livestock Development                          producers, 15 women
 3.b.2 Increase           Policy Action 10: Certification11 that             Increase the number of seasonal
 Employment and           participants from the State’s income transfer      workers benefitting from the
 Income                   and generation program Mão Amiga are               program Mão Amiga included in
 Opportunities for        enrolled in the literacy program Sergipe           the program Sergipe Alfabetizado
 the Most Vulnerable      Alfabetizado (Certification dated August23,        Baseline (Feb 2012): 0
 People (Especially       2012)                                              Endline (Dec 2013): 565 (or 50
 Seasonal Orange                                                             percent), 1/8 of which are
 And Sugarcane           Responsibility: State Secretariat of Social         women
 Production              Assistance and State Secretariat of Education
 Workers)
 3.c Social Protection and Prevention of Gender-Based Violence
 3.c.1 Strengthen the Policy Action 11: The State of Sergipe enacts          Increase the number of families
 Social Assistance       Law No. 7251 of October 31, 2011 (published         with monthly per capita income of
 System (SUAS) –         on November 7, 2011) establishing the detailed      less than R$70.00/month living in
 Busca Ativa for         resource transfer system to finance social          the poorest 15 municipalities
 inclusion in the        assistance in municipalities, and                   included in the CadÚnico
 CadÚnico                institutionalizes co-financing agreements with      Baseline (Jan 2012): 39,582
                         two municipalities (Published in the Diário         families



10
   Federal Government programs for food acquisition: (i) Programa de Aquisição de Alimentos da
Agricultura Familiar (PAA), created through the Federal LawNo.10696/2003; and (ii) Programa Nacional
de Alimentação Escolar (PNAE), created through the Federal Law No. 11947/2009.
11
   A high-ranking officer in the Secretariat of Education, Secretariat of Social Assistance or related entity
issues a certificate of approval attesting to accuracy of the list of participants.

                                                    47
OBJECTIVES             POLICY ACTIONS                                     EXPECTED RESULTS
                       Oficial do Estado on November 7, 2011)             Endline (Dec 2013): 41,561
                                                                          families
                       Responsibility: Secretariat of Social Assistance
                       and Ministry of Social Development
3.c.2 Scale Up State   Policy Action 12: Technical Cooperation            Increase the number of women in
and Municipal          Agreement signed between the State and at          situations of violence and
Government             least one municipality in each of the four (4)     vulnerability attended in the Rede
Support Programs       regions with the highest concentration of          de Atendimento à MulherVítima de
Aimed at Protecting    gender-based violence (Sul Sergipano, Agreste,     Violência
Women in               Baixo São Francisco and Alto Sertão) for           Baseline (Mar 2012):3,985
Situations of          decentralizing women protection and support        Endline (Dec 2013): 6,973
Violence and           programs to the interior of the State, as
Vulnerability          required by the Cooperation Agreement of July
                       21, 2009 between the State and Federal
                       Government (Agreements signed on October 9,
                       2012 for Poço Redondo municipality in Alto
                       Sertão Sergipano, Propriá municipality in
                       Baixo São Francisco and Itabaiana
                       municipality in Agreste Sergipano; and on
                       December 7, 2012 for Estância in Sul
                       Sergipano)

                       Responsibility: State Secretariat of Public
                       Security and Special State Secretariat of
                       Women




                                                 48
