      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020169


1. Project Data



 Operation ID                                           Operation Name
 P129652                                                BR Sergipe DPL

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Brazil                                                 Health, Nutrition & Population



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                         Total Financing (USD)
  IBRD-82570                                            31-Dec-2014                                                            1,050,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  21-May-2013                                           31-Dec-2014

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                              Co-financing (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           150,000,000.00                                                            0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            150,000,000.00                                                            0.00

  Actual                                                        150,000,000.00                                                            0.00




 Sector(s)
 Sub-National Government(25%):Other Agriculture, Fishing and Forestry(25%):Health(17%):General education sector(17%):Other social
 services(16%)

 Theme(s)
 Other public sector governance(25%):Other rural development(25%):Education for all(17%):Population and reproductive
 health(17%):Gender(16%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Judyth L. Twigg                     Soniya Carvalho                     Joy Behrens                         IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Policy Areas

a. Objectives
    According to the Program Document (p. 18), the Development Policy Objective was "to improve public sector management, and expand access
    to quality public services and economic opportunities for the extremely poor." Based on the operation description and policy actions outlined in
    the Program Document (pp. 18-23), the focus on the "extremely poor" applies to the objective to expand economic opportunities, but not to the
    objective to expand access to quality public services.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)




b. Were the program objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation of the series?
     No



c.   Pillars/Policy Areas
      The Policy Areas (Program Document, pp. 23-36) of the Operation were:
      1. Consolidating fiscal management and public sector innovation, including improving responsiveness to citizens; implementing new
      integrated tools for budget, financial, and human resources management; and combating tax avoidance to ensure fair contributions to public
      expenditures. Specific policy actions were to include establishing a new system within Citizens' Attention Centers (CEACs) to standardize
      processes and set up a "one-stop shop" model; draft and approve a Charter on the CEACs; implementing i-Gesp, an information and
      communication technology system specifically oriented to public management, with modules covering planning, budgeting, budgetary and
      control, public accounting, and agreements management; and implementation of a virtual and integrated process for the collection of tax
      arrears.

      2. Increasing access to better quality public services, including health care (through implementation of Rede Cegonha, a new model for
      mother and child assistance at birth) and education (through adoption of a more decentralized model of school management, including a
      merit-based and participatory/democratic selection process for school directors, and implementation of a Literacy at the Right Age Program
      (PNAIC) in state-run schools and municipal schools).

      3. Promoting socioeconomic development and inclusive growth, through: (a) supporting expansion of access to markets and income growth
      through strengthening of the main clusters for family agriculture; (b) promoting sustainable agriculture and productive inclusion through
      sustainable agricultural practices, inclusion of women, and increased employment and income opportunities for the most vulnerable groups,
      especially seasonal orange and sugarcane production workers; and (c) supporting social protection and prevention of gender-based violence
      through strengthening the social assistance system and increasing the number of women attended by the Women Protection and Support
      Program.




d. Comments on Program Cost, Financing, and Dates
      The Operation was supported by a US$ 150 million multisectoral Development Policy Loan. US$ 149.63 million was disbursed in a single
      tranche. The project team confirmed that the difference between planned and actual disbursements was due to exchange rate
      fluctuations. According to the ICR (p. 9), all of the required Policy Actions were satisfied in a timely manner, with no delays in effectiveness
      or disbursement. The Operation closed as scheduled on December 31, 2014.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Despite two decades of economic growth that benefited all income groups, at appraisal Brazil faced continuing challenges with poverty,
     vulnerability, and social exclusion, especially in its Northeast region and in rural areas. Sergipe, whose population is 70% rural, was performing
     relatively well against other states in the Northeast, but it lagged behind the national average. The Government of Sergipe's strategy for
     rectifying this situation, focused on reaching the poorest segments of the population more effectively, was outlined in its 2012-2015 Multiyear
     Participatory Plan. This plan had four strategic axes: social development and affirmation of citizen rights, excellence in public sector
     management, productive infrastructure and logistics, and inclusive economic development (Program Document, p. 9). The Bank's 2012-2015
     Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) reflected these goals, with strategic objectives to increase the efficiency of public and private investments,
     improve quality and access of public services for low-income households, promote regional economic development, and improve environmental
     sustainability while contributing to local economic development and agricultural production. The CPS also specifically recognized the need to
     support multi-sectoral development solutions at the sub-national level. The Operation's objectives were therefore Highly relevant to country
     conditions at the time of appraisal, government strategy, and Bank strategy.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       A DPL was the appropriate instrument, given its ability to facilitate increased government capacity, rapid access to financing, and political
       leverage for cross-sectoral aciton and reform. The Policy Actions were largely drawn directly from the State's development agenda. However,
       some Policy Actions (specifically those related to green inclusive growth and intensive production systems) were inherited from a previous
       Bank investment project that had been unable to proceed with an Additional Financing, and these lacked the scale and sustainability to further
       this Operation's objectives within its time frame. The relevant Secretariats responsible for implementation in these areas lacked sector-specific
       capacity and were strongly reliant on technical support, rendering them unprepared for implementing fully the institutional reforms supported
       by a DPL operation. Furthermore, although gender was identified as a cross-cutting issue in the Program Document (p. 18, given the impact
       of gender imbalances on poverty in the State), the results chain (Program Document, Annex 2, pp. 79-83) did not effectively connect the
       activities related to gender-based violence and social protection for women to the objective of promoting socioeconomic development and
       inclusive growth.




       Rating
       Modest



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Improve public sector management in the State of Sergipe

    Rationale
    Outputs:

    The State Secretariat of Planning, Budget, and Management (SEPLAG) undertook a systematic survey of the CEACs and implemented
    system computerization to enable an online appointment management system, improved transparency, and the standardization of
    processes. A mobile unit was created to provide services to the most vulnerable and inaccessible populations.

    The existing online management software was replaced with i-Gesp, making it possible to access and cross-check reports from all state
    secretariats and to improve control of budgets and execution.

    The government of Sergipe implemented a virtual and integrated process for collection of tax arrears and for inspection. The process of
    inspection was automated and modernized to allow for faster turnaround and reach to a wider percentage of tax avoiders.

    Outcomes:

    Responsiveness to citizen complaints in the CEACs increased from 15% in 2011 to 100% at the end of 2013, exceeding the target of 90%.
    However, this indicator did not accurately reflect improvement in quality of service to citizens, as the number of citizen complaints was not
    initially high. The ICR (p. 11) notes that more appropriate indicators would have focused on delays in receiving services and quality of
    service provision. In a pilot project in one CEAC, wait times were decreased to an average of 15 minutes, and service provision times to
    under five minutes, though the project team confirmed that there was no baseline for this indicator.

    The target of four reports produced automatically through i-Gesp was "far surpassed" by the end of 2013; the Borrower's ICR confirms that
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)



    over 15 reports were produced and disseminated (ICR, p. 33). The ICR (p. 15) reports multiple improvements as a result of implementation
    of i-Gesp: in management of expenditure control, innovations in management control, strengthening of coordination between secretaries,
    and streamlining of authorizations, hiring, and bidding; in the time-efficiency, predictability, and control of budget execution;
    and in resources saved as a result of time savings in production of reports and location of information critical to managerial decisions.
    However, no specific evidence is provided to support these reports.

    Revenues collected from tax arrears as a share of the stock of tax arrears decreased from 43% in 2011 to 39% at the end of 2013, not
    meeting the target of an increase to 52%. The ICR (p. 16) indicates that the target was not met due to challenges with recovering older
    paper-based records and, more importantly, an option available to tax avoiders for refinancing that allows payment of 5% of the original fine
    over time, decreasing incentives for immediate repayment. The ICR (p. 16) states that modernization of the system under the project is
    expected to prevent future tax avoidance.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Expand access to quality public services in the State of Sergipe

    Rationale
    Outputs:

    A maternal health care protocol was implemented in which patients were classified according to their levels of risk. Staff were adequately
    trained on the protocol. This step encouraged more effective identification of pregnant women, timely referral of high-risk pregnancies, and
    reduced delays in obtaining test results and treatments.

    The previous system of political appointment of state-run school directors was replaced with a merit-based participatory process.

    A legal administrative rule was adopted establishing guidelines for technical assistance agreements between the State Secretariat of
    Education and municipal education systems for supporting the implementation of PNAIC.

    Outcomes:

    The number of maternity hospitals implementing the protocol for classification of admissions by risk increased from 1 on 2011 to 3 at the
    end of 2013, meeting the target. Importantly, the protocol was implemented in the high-risk referral center in the state capital (Maternity
    Hospital Nossa Senhora de Lourdes). The full impact of this action cannot be evaluated in the short time frame of the Operation.

    The Cesarean section rate at the referral hospital Senhora de Lourdes increased from 55.02% in 2011 to 57.46% at the end of 2013, not
    meeting the target of a reduction to 50.2%. This hospital is the only high-risk referral hospital in the State, and as such it receives a
    disproportionate share of pregnancies with complications (those with higher probability of C-section). It is possible that the implemented
    maternal health protocol resulted in a desirable increase in the percentage of high-risk pregnancies that reach the appropriate facility,
    making the trend on this indicator a positive achievement.

    159 school directors (out of 378 state-operated schools in the State) were selected by merit and with signed management agreements by
    the end of 2013, surpassing the target of 151. However, the impact of this achievement is muted by questions about the selectivity of
    future appointment processes, shortcomings in training for school directors, possible resistance from unions, and disincentives for qualified
    candidates to serve due to a law forbidding occupation of other positions while acting as school director.

    73 municipalities received technical assistance from the State in the implementation of PNAIC by the end of 2013, surpassing the target of
    38. However, the ICR (p. 11) notes that this indicator cannot capture meaningful outcomes over the short time frame of this Operation.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Expand economic opportunities for the extremely poor in the State of Sergipe

    Rationale
    Outputs:
    The State Company for Water Resources and Irrigation provided seed capital, technical assistance, certification of products, and rural
    extension across selected rural producer chains, with the overall aim of facilitating market participation through organizing production of
    family farmers into dairy production clusters. The State Company for Agriculture and Livestock Development provided technical assistance
    for small agricultural producers to transition to sustainable and green practices in some of the most fragile ecosystems of the region. The
    Program Document (p. 33) indicated that gains to the poor and most vulnerable social groups, in response to the objective's focus on "the
    extremely poor," would be realized by targeting rural areas in the interior of the State. The project team confirmed that beneficiaries of this
    activity were located in one of the poorest rural regions of the State, based on an analysis carried out by the government in 2011.

    Enrollment in Sergipe Alfabetizado, a literacy program for underserved and poor populations, was extended to persons already enrolled in
    Mäo Amiga, Sergipe's cash transfer program for seasonal workers. Mäo Amiga covered 7,673 families (about two-third orange pickers, and
    one-third sugarcane cutters) in 20 municipalities.

    The Secretariat of Social Assistance strengthened its search for qualified beneficiaries to be included in CadÚnico, the single registry for
    social programs intended to identify low-income families.

    The Special State Secretariat for Women, focusing on four of the most affected regions in the interior of Sergipe, created seven Specialized
    Regional Centers for Victims of Domestic Violence. These centers were staffed with specialists in attending to women victims'
    psychological, legal, enforcement, and medical needs, and were intended to reduce women's reluctance to seek help. The project's results
    chain does not fully develop the linkage between these activities and the objective to expand economic opportunities for the extremely
    poor.

    Outcomes:

    The number of trained small producer units who were included in dairy production clusters and sold at least 90% of their production to
    private and public/institutional markets increased from 3% in 2011 to 30% at the end of 2013, meeting the target of 30%. The total milk
    production among program participants increased from 2096 liters in 2012 to 3010 liters in 2014. However, according to the ICR (p. 19),
    these results can be considered modest based on the relatively low absolute number of beneficiaries (exact numbers not provided) and
    lack of sustainability.

    The number of small producers who were in the Program for Agroecological Production and linked to social control organizations, and who
    were selling directly to agroecological fairs and to private and public/institutional markets, increased from 83 (of whom 5 were women) in
    2011 to 114 (44 women) by the end of 2013, exceeding the target of 100 (15 women). The ICR (p. 19) indicates that the program benefited
    the "most vulnerable groups of producers," presumably through geographic targeting in one of the poorest regions of the State. However,
    the ICR also points out that the program is unlikely to have sustainable benefit if incentives are not provided to neighboring farmers to
    participate as well. There are no data on the production impact of this program.

    241 seasonal workers (of whom 74 were women) benefited from the program Mão Amiga included in the program Sergipe Alfabetizado by
    the end of 2013, not meeting the target of 565 workers (one-eighth of whom were to be women). There were difficulties coordinating
    implementation with the federal government, delays implementing the literacy program (which was undergoing some restructuring), and
    lack of demand due to distance between participants and class locations, time commitments, and lack of incentives to complete an eight-
    month program.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)




 The number of families with monthly per capita income of less than R$70/month, living in the 15 poorest municipalities, who were included
 in the CadÚnico increased from 39,583 in 2011 to 48,396 by the end of 2013, surpassing the target of 41,561. According to the ICR (p.
 20), the validity of rosters was also improved through cross-checks and more active management at the state level.

 The number of women in situations of violence and vulnerability who were attended in the new centers increased from 3,985 in 2011 to
 7,630 at the end of 2013, surpassing the target of 6,973. However, while the number of reported cases of gender-based violence
 increased by 52% over the Operation's lifetime, the number of calls to call centers increased by only 36%. It is not known whether the
 existence of the centers encouraged more women to come forward, resulting in an increase in the percentage of actual cases that were
 reported, or if these numbers represent an actual increase in gender-based violence. It is also not reported why the number of calls to call
 centers did not match the increase in reported cases. The project documents do not fully develop the linkage between these outcomes and
 the objective to expand economic opportunities for the extremely poor.




 Rating
 Modest



5. Outcome

The Operation's objectives were highly relevant to country conditions at the time of appraisal, government strategy, and Bank strategy.
Relevance of design is rated modest due to some policy actions in sectors that were institutionally ill-prepared for a DPL and would have been
better served by further investment operations, and because the results chain did not fully link planned activities to address gender-based
violence to the objective to expand economic opportunities for the extremely poor. The objective to expand access to quality public services is
rated as substantially achieved, with maternal health and education services expanded to vulnerable populations, though more data are required
to assess fully the impact of the Operation on these services. The objective to improve public sector management is rated as modestly
achieved, given limited specific evidence provided on the impact of the implementation of new management software. The objective to expand
economic opportunities for the extremely poor is also rated as modestly achieved, with relatively small numbers of beneficiaries reached by some
programs, and little data provided on targeting of the extremely poor. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of significant shortcomings in
the project's performance, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.




a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Unsatisfactory



6. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

State government institutional capacity was significantly strengthened, a benefit likely to be sustained through the new information system and
through the continued presence of a skilled, committed team. Many of the processes supported by the Operation have been consolidated by the
passage of permanent laws and decrees. These processes are embedded in Sergipe's multi-year investment plan and are aligned with many
federal requirements and programs. However, fiscal risks remain, as government expenditures remain above a "prudential limit" (ICR, p. 10).
The Bank remains in close dialogue with the government to ensure that fiscal adjustment measures are in compliance with the Fiscal
Responsibility Law. Sergipe has expressed interest in a second-phase DPL, which has been prepared but not yet approved.



a.   Risk to Development Outcome Rating
      Modest
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)



7. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
  Each of the Policy Areas was selected with appropriate stakeholder consultation and in coordination with the relevant secretariats. The
  Operation contained reasonable Prior Actions. Care was taken to ensure that Sergipe's fiscal position was considered satisfactory for a
  DPL, given that previous operations had been suspended because of fiscal non-compliance. However, there were significant shortcomings
  with the Operation's results framework (see Section 10a), resulting in "tenuous links" between Policy Areas and results indicators (ICR, p.
  24). The Bank team could have provided stronger technical assistance during preparation in the design and definition of the Operation's key
  indicators and overall monitoring capacity in some secretariats.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
  Supervision was careful and close, given that this was Sergipe's first DPL, with frequent communication between State officials and Bank
  staff. The Bank team maintained close scrutiny of expenditures throughout implementation, given previous instances of fiscal non-
  compliance. However, shortcomings in implementation and M&E, particularly with the definition of some indicators, should have been
  corrected. In addition, the project's environmental and social effects were not sufficiently assessed.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


8. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
    The State government was fully committed to the continuous reform process supported by this Operation, with a high level of support
    created through a participatory process in establishing priorities with all levels of government and civil society. However, technical and
    institutional capacity for implementation varied across sectors.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   As a multisectoral program, the Operation was implemented by seven different State secretariats: SEPLAG, the Secretariats of Finance,
   Health, Education, Agriculture/Rural Development, and Inclusion/Protection/Social Development, and the Special Secretariat of Women.
   SEPLAG performed with a high degree of commitment and technical capacity, maintaining consistently excellent communication with Bank
   staff and the other implementing secretariats. However, some secretariats did not exercise appropriate M&E.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)




9. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   Overall responsibility for implementation of M&E rested with SEPLAG, through a team specially designated to coordinate implementation of
   the government's strategic programs with other implementing agencies on a daily basis. This Operation established a need to measure
   baselines and outcomes for the Policy Actions. This was an important development in a State whose M&E system and culture were initially
   weaker than those at the national level. However, there was varying capacity of the implementing sectors to monitor and evaluate data,
   creating a challenge for selecting indicators that would adequately measure results. As a result, in some cases the Operation's formal
   indicators were selected for ease of measurement rather than accuracy, relevance, and impact. Some indicators were not appropriate for
   capturing the real impact of actions that require a longer-term time frame, and only one indicator was chosen per Policy Action, focusing
   resources on achievement of those single indicators rather than the overall objectives (these issues were particularly relevant to the objective
   to improve access to quality public services). The adoption of i-Gesp was reported to be effective in automating the preparation and search
   of management reports in all areas of government.




b. M&E Implementation
   Monitoring of results took place with a high degree of coordination across secretariats through SEPLAG, which displayed knowledge and
   commitment to the process. However, there was a lack of uniformity across sectors in measuring and monitoring progress, resulting in
   uneven M&E implementation and results.




c. M&E Utilization
   Access to i-Gesp was reported to be a step forward for policy making and implementation, facilitating decisions based on quantitative and
   qualitative data.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


10. Other Issues

a. Environmental and Social Effects
   The Program Document (p. 41), based on a 2012 Environmental Assessment, indicates that the policy actions supported by the Operation
   were likely to have both beneficial and adverse environmental impacts. It does not elaborate on the possible negative impacts, but asserts
   that the overall environmental impact of the Operation would be positive if operational capacity of the environmental governance system
   were increased and pending institutional issues resolved. The ICR comments on environmental sustainability as it applies to policies
   enacted under the third objective, but it does not provide information on the Operation's overall environmental impact.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
No issues with fiduciary compliance under this Operation were reported in the ICR.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)




d. Other
       ---




11. Ratings
                                                                                                                   Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                   Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                   Insufficient specific evidence on
                                                                                                                   impact of i-Gesp on public
                                                                                                                   sector management; limited
                                                                                                                   evidence of expanding
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                                   economic opportunities for the
                                                                                                                   extremely poor, with relatively
                                                                                                                   small numbers of beneficiaries
                                                                                                                   reached by some programs.
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Modest                                ---
                                                                                                                   Significant shortcomings in the
                                                                                                                   Operation's results framework,
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory             resulting in tenuous links
                                                                                                                   between Policy Areas and
                                                                                                                   results indicators.
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                           ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


12. Lessons

The ICR (pp. 26-27) provides several important and useful lessons, including:

It is a challenge to identify appropriate and monitorable results indicators for broad policy actions. In this case, some of the indicators measured
broad performance of the State rather than specific actions attributable to the Operation, while others were too narrow to capture the full
scope of the policy action and objective.

Coordination across different levels of government requires careful and specific attention. In this case, approvals and other bureaucratic issues
from levels of government not directly involved with program implementation created bottlenecks that could have been avoided through pre-
signed agreements or other anticipatory, proactive mechanisms.

IEG adds one additional lesson:

Achievement of objectives involving the extremely poor require actions and indicators targeted at this group. In this case, full measurement of
achievement of the objective to expand economic opportunities for the extremely poor was not possible due to non-specified targeting and
measurement.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        BR Sergipe DPL(P129652)



13. Assessment Recommended?

Yes


Please explain

To verify the ratings.




14. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is clear and well written, with a remarkably crisp description of the Operation's Policy Actions. Care is taken to attribute observed
results to the Operation's interventions, and to assess where that attribution is questionable. Shortcomings in the Operation's results
framework are well assessed. The ICR"s lessons are insightful and should prove useful to future DPLs at the subnational level, and in
environments where implementation capacity is uneven. There were some shortcomings. The ICR is slightly repetitive in some areas, and it is
not explicitly attentive to issues surrounding the Operation's targeting of interventions to the extremely poor. The project's environmental and
social effects are not sufficiently assessed.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
