I OG!A UMENTSJ
STATUTORY COMMITTEE REPORT
TO: The President, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Report of the Committee under Section 4 (iii) of Article III of the Articles of Agreement
on the Proposed Loan (Development Policies for the State of Sergipe Development Policy
Loan) to the State of Sergipe to be guaranteed by the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The undersigned Committee constituted under Section 7 of Article V of the Articles of
Agreement of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) hereby
submits its report pursuant to Section 4 (iii) of Article III of said Articles in respect of the
proposal that the Bank grant to the State of Sergipe a loan in an amount of US$150,000,000,
which loan is to be guaranteed the Federative Republic of Brazil. The purpose of said loan is to
support the Borrower's program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (a) consolidating
fiscal management and public sector innovations; (b) increasing access to better quality public
services in health and education; and (c) promoting socioeconomic development and inclusive
growth in the Borrower's territory.
1.   The Committee has carefully studied the merits of the proposal to grant such a loan, and of
the purpose(s) to which the proceeds of the loan are to be applied.
2.   The Committee is of the opinion that the Program toward the financing of which the
proceeds of such loan are to be applied comes within the purposes of the Bank as set forth in
Article I of said Articles of Agreement, and that said Program is designed to promote the
development of the productive facilities and resources of the Federative Republic of Brazil and is
in the interest of the Federative Republic of Brazil and of the members of the Bank as a whole.


﻿-2-
the Federative Republic of Brazil                 (Development Policies for the State of
Sergipe Development Policy Loan)
3.    Accordingly, the Committee finds that said Program merits financial assistance from the
Bank, and hereby recommends said Program for such assistance.
COMMITTEE
Senior Vice President and Group General Counsel
Expert Selected by G ve or for
Federative Republic  Brazil
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Vice  esident
Corporate Finance and Risk Management
IL    -
Sed Vice President
Development Economics and Chief Economist
Dated at Washington, D.C.
HP    & i4 '9( o~  qo/-3


