 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14905

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/02/2016

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P096921                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: National Program For         Project Costs (US$M):                    304.2               489.3
                         Community
                         Empowerment In
                         Urban Areas (PNPM
                         Urban)
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                    177.7               286.9
      Sector Board:      Urban Development            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               05/20/2008
                                                              Closing Date:             06/29/2011         12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       General education sector (27%); Health (27%); Urban Transport (27%); Other social services
                           (13%); Sub-national government administration (6%)
          Theme(s):        Participation and civic engagement (50%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery
                           (50%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Fang Xu                    George T. K. Pitman    Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 Following the launching of Indonesia's 2007 National Program for Community Empowerment (Program National
Pemberdayaan or PNPM), the Bank assisted the government to consolidate the PNPM as a national program through
this project. The project development objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD page 7 ) and the Financing
Agreement (Schedule 1) was:

    “to ensure that the urban poor in participating Kelurahans benefit from improved socio -economic and local
    governance conditions .”

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/01/2009

 c. Components:
 1: Community and Local Government Capacity Building (estimated cost was US$31.62 million and US$76.1 million
was added through additional financing in 2009. Actual cost was US$105.26 million). The community development
and capacity building component aimed to achieve the following:
     1. Develop an extended awareness raising or socialization process that will encourage about 7,800
        communities (7,250 of which had been covered by predecessor projects) to discuss, through a series of
        focus group discussions, the nature of poverty in their kelurahan (ward), how it should be addressed, and
        what is required to deal adequately with poverty (in the form of individual commitment, organization,
        resources, skills, etc).
     2. Assist the community to carry out a Community Self Survey (CSS) on poverty.
     3. The formation/confirmation of an elected body of representatives (Badan Keswadayan Masyarakat or BKM)
        that is accountable to the community at large and which will act on behalf of the community for poverty
        reduction.
     4. The formulation of a poverty -oriented Community Development Plan (CDP) for the kelurahan using a
        participatory process and based on the results of the CSS.
     5. Organizing and assisting community groups (Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat or KSM) who will submit
        proposals to the BKM to utilize project resources and implement the programs indentified in the CDP.
     6. Assistance to BKMs to form associations (BKM Forums at the kecamatan (Sub-district) and city level) and
        work collectively.
     7. Building local government capacity to work with BKMs and the BKM Forum.

This component was to fund the cost of facilitators to carry out social intermediation activities, training, workshops,
communication activities, focus group discussions, and production of socialization materials and publications. It would
also support the training and socialization of local government staff on PNPM.

At the time of additional financing, the project was scaled-up geographically and number of keluranhan was increased
from 7,800 to 9,457. The year in which the target should be achieved was moved from 2009 to 2011 in line with the
shift of the closing date.

 2: Kelurahan Grants and Sub-loans (estimated cost: US$248.92 million. Actual cost: US$346.92 million).This
component was to finance:
     1. High-priority infrastructure investments;
     2. Microcredit loans channeled through community-managed revolving loan funds (RLFs).
     3. Social programs for the poorest and most vulnerable groups or individuals to pay for scholarships, health
          care, training and similar activities.

3: Implementation and Technical Assistance (estimated cost: US$23.51 million, actual cost: US$37.39 million). This
component was to support the project implementation including the project’s monitoring and evaluation, and the
complaints handling system.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project cost: The actual cost was US$489.3 million. An additional financing of US$115 million was approved On May
1, 2009 to scale-up the project. The project development objectives remained unchanged. The additional financing
supported an additional 1,575 kelurahans, provided supplemental block grants to the existing 4,593 kelurahans,
financed community and local government capacity building, and provided implementation support to the investments
in these additional 6,168 kelurahans.

Financing: The Bank initially provided an IDA Credit of US$125.00 million and an IBRD Loan of US$52.68 million.
Additional financing through an IBRD Loan of $US$115.00 million was added in 2009. Out of the total amount of
US$292.70 million, some US$286.88 million or 98% was disbursed and US$0.72 million was cancelled.

The Islamic Development Bank provided parallel financing of US$78.98 million equivalent for PNPM program and this
was utilized in 14 Provinces that were not part of the Bank's project.

Borrower contribution : The borrower also increased the contribution by US$74.6 million to the actual US$201.1
million.

Dates: The project closing date was extended by 36 months to December 31, 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High
The PNPM Urban was a continuation of Bank's support to the community empowerment in Indonesia (Urban Poverty
Projects 1, 2 and 3) and it aimed to contribute to the government's development objective of expanding the community
empowerment nation wide through its 2007 National Program for Community Empowerment.

The project development objective was fully consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
2004-2007, which aimed at sustaining economic recovery, promoting broad-based growth, and delivering better public
services for the poor. In the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Indonesia FY09-12, the “community development
and social protection” was one of the five thematic areas that formed the core of the Bank’s engagement. The CPS for
FY09-12 states (pages 26 and 27) that the Bank will “continue to support Government in the design and effective
expansion of programs that promote more inclusive growth and social protection, and also enhance the accountability
of elected officials and service providers.”

Project objectives remain relevant to the current CPS for 2013-2015 that identifies six thematic areas that form the
core of the Bank’s engagement in Indonesia, three of which are directly relevant to PNPM Urban: (i) Promoting
Communities, Protecting the Vulnerable and Improving Health Outcomes, (ii) Ensuring Sustainable Development and
Improving Disaster Resilience, and (iii) Gender and Governance.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial
The designed activities were relevant to the achievement of development objectives. The causal chain from the
project interventions to project outputs, and consequently the project outcomes, was clear. The capacity-building and
implementation support activities in component 1 would help improve local governance and ensure that the economic
and social services would be provided in a cost-effective and sustainable manner. The community driven approach
used under this project to develop the Community Development Plans would allow the community members, including
the poor, to participate in the decision-making process and benefit from the project intervention. The implementation
of the Better Governance Action Plan also contributed to the improvement of local governance through identifying and
mitigating corruption risks. Component 2 aiming at providing more infrastructure, economic and social services that
would benefit the communities covered by the project.

As some of the activities such as the social program were directly targeting at the poorest and most vulnerable groups
in these communities, the urban poor group was expected to benefit more than the community as a whole from the
project intervention. The project, as the other projects under the PNPM, also provided block grants, micro-credit and
revolving funds to finance high-priority infrastructure investment and to support the poorest and most vulnerable
groups or individuals to pay for scholarships, health care, training and similar activities. The two programs supported
by the project, the Neighborhood Development and Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant targeted slum areas and
provided larger and more concentrated investment than regular block grant amounts (ICR page 17). All these would
contribute to the project objectives of benefiting the poor from the improved socio-economic conditions.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

 The project development objectives are "to ensure that the urban poor in participating Kelurahans benefit from
improved socio-economic and local governance conditions ".

1. Achievement of the first objective of "ensuing the urban poor in participating Kelurahans benefit from improved
socio-economic conditions" : Substantial.

Main Outputs:
  12,280 km of village roads, 3,452 km of drainage and 42,536 small bridges were built or improved;
  57,598 units of houses were rehabilitated;
  62,790 solid waste and communal sanitation facilities and 12,642 water supply facilities were built;
  1,114 education facilities, 2,235 community health facilities and 338 public markets were built; and
  22,914 electrification units were built.
  About 12% of all kelurahan grant funds were used for social program which provided social services to
    approximately 830,000 persons. The social services included training courses, aid to the elderly, health care,
    additional nutrition for children of poor, scholarships for young and disadvantaged students.
  About 10% of the kelurahan grant funds were used for the Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) to provide small amount
    of loans to over 340,000 poor persons in 65,000 community groups. However, the usage of RLFs were less
    satisfactory than anticipated because the RLFs were often unable to comply with the financial management
    guidelines especially those related to safekeeping and the dissemination of financial reports.

Outcome:

    Through the project intervention, the access of the urban poor to the social and economic services improved. The
     project reached about 33.7 million poor beneficiaries through community level infrastructure service provision,
     exceeding the revised target of 22.3 million.
    Some 97% of the infrastructure built under the project were assessed as of good quality, exceeding the target of
     at least 70%. More specifically, about 619,000 households have access to clean water, about 822,000
     households have access to sanitation, about 110,000 households have access to electricity and about 211,000
     households have access to health clinics. 830,000 local people of which over 670,000 were poor received social
     services.
    The "Quantitative Evaluation the National Community Empowerment Program - Urban (NCEP-Urban)" study
     (2012) showed that about 35% of social program beneficiaries perceived the social program as very useful, and
     61% as useful. While the improved access was the direct project benefit to the urban poor, the evidence is thin on
     the impact of the improved access, such as the health improvements or improved households' income.

2. Achievement of the second objective of "ensuing the urban poor in participating Kelurahans benefit from
improvedlocal governance conditions :" Substantial

Main Outputs:
  Board of Community Trustees (BKMs) were established in virtually all participating kelurahans.
  Training was delivered using a “training-of-trainers” model. The project trained 400 national trainers.
  At the community level, the project provided training to around 100,000 BKM members, 120,000 community
    volunteers and 70,000 community groups (KSM) per year.
  The project trained about 800 local government officials. mostly from planning and public works departments,
    and from local inspectorates.
  The Project Management Unit resolved 126,609 of 128,027 (99%) reported complaints, including 1,127
    corruption complaints, and had recovered about US$1.5 million (67%) of misused funds.

Outcome:

    At the community level, the urban poor increased their voice through the participation in the community
     organization (BKM) election process and in public decision-making (directly or indirectly through the community
     representatives). The 2012 study showed that on average about 33% of the adult population in kelurahans voted
     in BKM elections, higher than the targeted value of 30%.The study also showed that 75% respondents viewed
     the BKM election as transparent, participatory and fair.
    97% of kelurahans had Community Development Plans (CDPs) completed. 35% of the poor and vulnerable
     community members participated in the community planning and decision-making meeting. The 35%
     achievement was lower than the target of at least 40% because the poor and vulnerable community members
     tended to rely on neighborhood representatives instead of participating in meetings themselves.
    At the local government level, the local governments increased their support to the communities. Over 90% of
     local governments covered by the project co-financed at least 20% of the project cost from their own resources in
     80% of project kelurahans. The 2012 study estimated that 87% of project beneficiaries were satisfied (target
     80%) with improved services and local governance, significantly above target.

At the Additional Financing stage, the target for outcome indicator “Improved households expenditure rates or
improved access to economic and social services in 7,800 kelurahans (wards) in 2009” was revised to " Improved
household expenditure rates or improved access to economic and social services in 80% of participating kelurahans
(wards)". The AF paper explained that the 80% (or 7,500) target was more realistic than the original target of 100%
set at appraisal. At the end of the project, 8,511 instead of 7,500 Keluranhans were provided with economic and/or
social services, which exceeded both the original and the revised targets. In such a case, though the target of the
outcome indicator was revised, IEG has chosen not to undertake a split rating evaluation as the rating against both
targets will be the same.




5. Efficiency:
 Substantial

Economic and Financial Efficiency
At appraisal an economic analysis for the project was not made since the specific infrastructure activities were not
known. However, an analysis of potential project benefits was conducted. It was expected that demand-driven public
investments would be more cost effective and the public investment in urban services involving community in design
and delivery would be efficient.
In 2009, a cost-effectiveness analysis of 28 small-scale infrastructure projects financed by this project in 12
kelurahans was conducted. The analysis estimated that the cost of infrastructure built by the community was on
average 23% lower than the cost of equivalent works built by local government contractors. The GP subsequently
stated that “Quarterly spot checks undertaken by the NMC confirmed the cost-effectiveness of community-based
infrastructure financed by the project. By the end of 2011, in 87% of all participating kelurahans, infrastructure built
was at least 20% less expensive than infrastructure that was constructed using non-community based approaches,
well above the target of 80%. The lower cost did not adversely affect quality, as over 95% of infra-structure works
were rated as being of ‘good quality’".
The ICR states that the nature of the infrastructure projects under the PNPM Rural and the PNPM Urban was similar,
hence, the cost-saving information for PNPM Rural was a good reference for the cost-saving under the PNPM Urban.
In 2012, a cost-effectiveness analysis on the small-scale infrastructure projects financed by the PNPM Rural project
was carried out. The analysis showed that cost savings by using community-based approach were about 22%-33%
for roads and bridges projects, 19%-28% for water supply projects and 20%-25% for irrigation projects. The GP
subsequently sated they emphasize that although Annex 3 summarizes the results of studies undertaken for PNPM
Rural, the project did not rely on these background studies to assess the efficiency of infrastructure subprojects. This
was only used as a comparison to the existing data under PNPM Urban, as the types of infrastructure are similar. Out
of 14 sub-project types used by PNPM urban, local roads, small bridges, public sanitation, public lighting, housing
rehabilitation, sewerage, solid waste, community health clinic are comparable to PNPM rural.”
The efficiency of the 10% total project investments in RLFs was measured by the indicator "Return on Investments" .
The results showed about 30% of kelurahans managed to achieve a Return of Investment of more than 10%, short of
the target of 90% targeted Kelurahans.
Administrative and Operational Efficiency
The project’s closing date was extended by 36 months mainly because of the increased scale of the project activities.

Overall project efficiency is assessed as Substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Project development objective was highly relevant to the country and the Bank's priorities in Indonesia. The
designed activities were consistent with the development objectives and substantially relevant. Both project
development objectives were substantially achieved. The project efficiency was substantial.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The main risk to the development outcome is the maintenance of the community infrastructure built under the
project. Though an Operation & Maintenance Committee was required at the neighborhood level, it is unclear
whether the committees could provide sufficient funds for the infrastructure maintenance. The ICR (p28) indicates
that in many cases it was unlikely that these committees will provide the commitment and resources needed.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Prior to this project, the Bank supported a series of Urban Poverty Projects (UPPs) in the country. The PNPM
Urban was a continuation of Bank's support and engagement in community development in Indonesia. The project
design followed the design of UPP2 and UPP3 but was modified to incorporate lessons learned from these
projects such as increasing the local government's involvement and support to the community development. The
project also used the information and communication technology (ICT) extensively to enhance the project's
planning, implementation, monitoring and transparency.
The project's design, however, could have more specific activities on the local governance improvement and the
results framework could have specific indicators to measure the outcomes of improved social and economic
services such as the improved household income or health condition
.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project activities had wide geographical coverage which posed challenges to the Bank's supervision. The
fact that all team members were based in the country and the extensive and frequent utilization of project’s
Management Information System enabled close and continuous project supervision. The Bank's team carried out
two full-scale supervision missions annually supplemented with many shorter site visits to address specific
problems. The Bank team together with the Government also established a teleconference supervision system to
significantly expanded supervision coverage. This close supervision enabled the Bank team to address issues
such as consultant hiring, safeguard policy compliance and other challenges in a timely manner. The Mid-term
review was conducted in December 2010 (a year behind schedule) and led to a series of recommendations
including measures to improve RLF performance.. However, despite all these efforts, the performance of RLF did
not improve and the project's financial management also encountered some issues (see section 11).



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The project had very strong support and commitment from all levels of the government. The Government of
Indonesia had a roadmap of developing nationwide PNPM by 2015, and the PNPM Urban was prepared according
this roadmap. The former president issued a decree to make all planning, budgeting, implementation,
management and funding mechanisms for PNPM projects subject to a single set of operational guidelines and a
single overarching management structure to improve effectiveness and efficiency.

At local government level, all participating district governments were committed to co-finance the project cost but
the financial capacity of the local governments was overestimated, resulting in the local governments' difficulties in
providing the adequate and timely counterpart funding. This was exacerbated by weakness in the central
government's budget planning (budget ceiling was routinely set too low at the beginning of the fiscal year and then
was revised in the second half of the fiscal year), and thus the flow of the counterpart funding from the central
government to the project was not as smooth as planned and affected smooth implementation of project activities.
As some of the local governments did not have the capacity to provide the required 20% counterpart funding, the
Ministry of Finance in 2012 revised the local government's cost sharing percentages to 20% and 5% respectively.
After the revision, virtually all local governments were able to provide the minimum required cost sharing. The
project team clarified that the resulting financing gap was closed by the project. However, the impact of these
revisions on project outputs was not significant because the local government contribution was for block grants
only, and these accounted for about 80% of the total project cost, and most project funds for block grants were
already disbursed at the time the lower percentages started to apply.


   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    This project used the same implementation arrangement as the preceding UPPs. The Ministry of Public Works
was the Executing Agency for this project, and a Project Management Unit was responsible for project's
management, monitoring and evaluation., During implementation, the implementing agency streamlined the
project management by integrating all the National Management Consultants into a single organization and
decentralized operations to 19 provincial working units overseeing project implementation and managing
kelurahan facilitators.
The implementing agency worked effectively to complete the project activities and to enhance the capacity of the
community and local government level. Latterly, the implementation agency worked with the Bank to resolve the
issues encountered such as delays in budget execution and revision, compliance with safeguard policies and
modify the design in response to the changing circumstances. such as providing technical assistance to
kelurahans covered by Urban Poverty Projects through the Additional Financing.

The implementing agency complied with the environmental and social safeguards requirements and the Bank's
financial management requirements, but not without problems. The recording of potential social and
environmental impacts was initially poor, especially with regards to voluntary land donations. The project also
encountered problems such as delays in issuance of budget documents, and uneven capacity of the community
and facilitators to manage and implement the project activities (see section 11).



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project had three Key Performance Indicators and 14 intermediate outcome indicators to measure the results
of the project intervention and a comprehensive Management Information System to tracked the progress,
supplemented by a series of qualitative and quantitative surveys. A complaints handling system was established
(complaints could be submitted via the project website, by phone, text message or in writing). However, the result
framework did not have indicators to measure the impact of the improved access to economic and social service and
the effect of the RLF program.

b. M&E Implementation:
  The M&E was well implemented through the MIS, spot-checking, surveys and the complaints handling system.
The data quality improved overtime. (ICR, page 22). However, the KPI of "improved household expenditure rates "
was not being tracked.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The data collected were used to identify and remedy issues, fine-tune the project activities and resources and
ensure transparency. The Government of Indonesia is also using the MIS to monitor its nationwide Community Design
Development program.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
  The project was categorized "B" under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment policy. In addition, OP/BP 4.10
Indigenous Peoples and OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement were triggered. The project adopted the Environmental
Guidelines, Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, and an Isolated Vulnerable Peoples (IVP) Policy
Framework developed under the Urban Poverty Project 3 with some modifications to reflect the lessons learned from
the previous projects.. The Indigenous Peoples’ Plan and the Resettlement Plan for the project were also developed
and disclosed.

The ICR (page 23) reported that the adverse social and environmental impacts of the project activities were small or
negligible given the small scale of individual project activities. However, there was no independent monitoring of
compliance with safeguards, given the small, scattered nature of the interventions. The ICR (page 23) reported that
the recording of the social and environmental impact was poor in the beginning but the quality of information improved
overtime. The project did not finance land acquisition, but did receive voluntary land donations; however, by the end of
2014, only about 70% of sub-project proposals had complete information about voluntary land donations.
 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: Project procurement was rated by the Bank team as moderately satisfactory throughout the project
period. Procurement experienced delays in the recruitment of consultants that in turn translated into implementation
delays. To address the procurement issue, the Bank together with the Borrower, simplified the procurement
procedures, minimized the rotation of facilitators and developed an online invoice monitoring system. Overall, the
project procurement was in compliance with the World Bank’s Guidelines(ICR, page 23)

Financial Management : The overall project Financial Management Risk was assessed as being Substantial at
appraisal stage. To mitigate the risk, several mechanisms were put in place. A community-based control was applied
which included the facilitator’s review and certification of community reports, establishment of oversight consultants,
display of financial reports in public areas, and an extensive complaints-handling system. Even so, the project
encountered some problems with financial management, primarily on RLF management, delays in issuance of budget
documents, and uneven capacity of the community and facilitators of managing and implementing the project
activities. The project’s financial management generally complied with the Bank’s minimum requirements under
OP/BP10.02 and the project’s financial management was generally acceptable at closing (ICR, page 23).

The project extensively used the complaint handling system to improve the project governance, enhance
transparency, and reduce opportunities for corruption and fraud. The system received 128,027 complaints during
2008-2014, the PMU resolved 126,609 (99%) of them, including 1,127 corruption complaints. The PMU recovered
about US$1.5 million (67%) of misused funds totaling an estimated US$2.3 million equivalent.

Community group financial statements were audited annually by independent audit firms. The project received an
unqualified opinion from an external auditor in all years from 2009 to 2013. Also, the local government auditors
conducted audits which helped increase the total audit coverage from 16% in 2009 to 34% in 2010 in the 19 provinces
covered by Bank financing, exceeding the target of 20% sample.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Seven lessons are given in the ICR and the three most important are:

1. 1. Strong and sustainable support from the local government are important to urban CDD program . Financial
incentives, intensive socialization and training of local government officials and their consultants are effective
means to create a sustained interest from the local governments in supporting small-scale infrastructure projects for
the communities.

2. Local government's support together with larger concentrated investments , improve the impact and
effectiveness of small -scale of block grants in improving the accessibility of the urban poor to economic and social
services

3. The intensive use of ICT helps to maintain a high level of transparency in all aspects of the project cycle , and
information disseminated effectively strengthened public confidence in the project’s openness and fairness .

IEG draws two additional lessons:

4. Fundamental to the flourishing of Indonesia’s urban CDD program has been the communities’ strong ownership
built through transparency and good governance . The program’s popularity is demonstrated by the peoples’
willingness to participate in the planning allocation of small grants for community development priorities, provide
voluntary labor for the projects, and in some instances to freely give up parcels of land for the communal good.

5. Community participation is a necessary , but in itself an insufficient measure to ensure sustainability of improved
infrastructure. Greater attention is needed to strengthen the technical capacity of communities to enable them to
operate and maintain the facilities established and to harmonize planned new investments with appropriate
maintenance programs and budgets. The facilitators can play a stronger role in stressing the importance of
maintenance when Community Development Plans are drawn up.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided sufficient information on the project design and implementation including the issues that the project
faced. The ICR also reported the project's outputs and intermediate outcomes. The ICR was not able to provide
information on the project impact even with the good MIS system and various surveys, which might be explained by
the fact that at the PNPM Urban stage, the program become a nation-wide thus making it difficulty to determine the
project impact on increased household income or improve health situation, etc.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
