Document of
The World Bank
FIL~          COp y                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2241.-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                     US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                               LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                     US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                               LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                     US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                               LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                     US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                               LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                     US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                               LE 0.70
List of Abbreviations
BOA       - Bank of Alexandria
CBE       - Central Bank of Egypt
DIB       - Development Industrial Bank
EIDDC     - Engineering and Industrial Design and Development Center
GODE      - Golf Organization for the Development of Egypt
M & LT    - Medium and Long-Term
MIDB      - Misr Iran Development Bank
OSF       - OPEC Special Fund
PVT       - Productivity and Vocational Training Department of the
Ministry of Industry
SSI       - Small Scale Industries
SSPIS     - Special Services for Private Industries Sector
(Department within BOA)
UPP       - Urban Poverty Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYE'T - DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
Guarantor:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:              $40.0 million equivalent
Terms:               The loan would bear interest at 7.45 percent per annum.
Repay'ment would be according to a schedule reflecting
the composite amortization schedules of the subloans
financed.
On-lending Terms:   Out of the proceeds of the loan, $39.5 million will be
on-lent by DIB to sub-borrowers at an interest rate of
not less than 9.95 percent per annum. The sub-borrower
will carry the foreign exchange risk. $300,000 out of
the piroceeds of the loan will be used for training and
technical assistance to DIB and $200,000 will be on-lent
by DI'B to the Government at 7.45 percent per annum to
cover the foreign exchange cost of a technical assis-
tance program for small scale industries (SSI).
Project
Description:        The project is designed to (i) provide a part of DIB's
foreign exchange requirements over about two years with
a special effort to assist small scale industrial (SSI)
enterprises; (ii) assist DIB in strengthening its devel-
opment banking functions and related organization and
procedures; and (iii) finance a program of technical
assistance to SSI through institutions other than DIB.
The project will be financed by both the Bank and by a
loan of $8.75 million from the OPEC Special Fund (OSF),
the latter providing all its funds to SSI projects; SSI
financing under the proposed Bank loan is estimated at
about, 10 percent of the loan proceeds, or about $4 mil-
lion. At the request of OSF the Bank has agreed to
administer the OSF loan. The project does not carry
special risks.
Final Date
for Project
Submission:         June 30, 1980
Free Limit:          $400,000 for individual sub-loans up to an aggregate
free limit of $16 million.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements:
$ Millions
Bank FY   79        80          81         82
Annual                            4.4       13.0       14.3        8.3
Cumulative                        4.4       17.4       31.7       40.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 1809a-EGT, dated February 28, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
1.        I submit the foLlowing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) with the guarantee of the Arab
Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of $40 million to help finance part of
the foreign exchange requirements of DIB's development finance operations
through June 1980, and a itechnical assistance pilot program for small scale
industries. The loan wou:Ld bear interest at 7.45 percent per annum. Repay-
ment would be according to a schedule reflecting the composite amortization
schedules of the sub-loans financed. The maximum repayment period is 17
years, including two years of grace. The OPEC Special Fund (OSF) participates
in the project with a loan of $8.75 million to help finance small scale indus-
trial enterprises.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating economic report dated March 22, 1977 was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 8, 1977. A basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June
1976 and its report is under preparation. A number of updating missions have
visited Egypt, the latest in January 1978; the findings of these missions are
incorporated in this report. Country data sheets are attached as Aanex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
1/   Part I of this report is identical to Part I of the recent President's
Report for the Second Telecommunications Project, distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 23, 1978.



-2
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities.
Real GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisages (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (ii) liberalization of the private sector; (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment; and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
towards restructuring the economy. In particular, steps have been taken to
remove some of the restrictions on private business activities, to decentralize
public enterprise management, to encourage foreign private investment, to
expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate, and to loosen
many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.         Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are linked to the major
weaknesses of the economy: the rapid increase in the population, slow growth
in agriculture, the large deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of
government savings, low efficiency in public sector.
6.        A new government was formed in November 1976 following elections to
the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of candidates
representing diverse political views was offered to the voters. The Cabinet
was strengthened on the economic side, a Deputy Prime Minister for Financial
and Economic Affairs was appointed to coordinate economic policy-making, and
President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the forefront of
the new Cabinet's tasks. Since then two minor cabinet reshuffles have taken
place.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.  Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from 3.2 percent in 1974, to 9.8 percent in 1975, and 6.1 percent in
1976. The growth rate in 1977 is not yet available, but preliminary indica-
tions are that it was high. The more rapid growth after 1974 is attributed
largely to the recovery of industrial activity through the provision of
greater aid-financed inputs, increased petroleum production and construction
(particularly in the Canal Zone), and growth of trade and services.
8.        Investment.  Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
Arab countries.  Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to



- 3 -
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
9.        Income Distribution.  It is estimated that in 1974/75, thte lowest
40 percent of households in both rural and urban areas accounted for about
16 percent of income originating in the respective sector. The income distri-
bution per person was more egalitarian, with the distribution in rural areas
being somewhat more equitable than its urban counterpart, but at a lower
average income level. In the rural areas, the lowest 40 percent of the per-
sonal distribution accounted for about 25 percent of total incomes in that
sector, compared with about 21 percent for the urban areas; however, the
average annual income in the rural areas was about $166, while in urban
areas it was $327.
10.       Public Finance.  Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way oi' taxation;
for example in 1976, tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Total public reve-
nues reached 41 percent of GNP, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low
per capita income.
11.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,415 1/ million (about
10 percent of GNP) in 1976, as the Government endeavored to protect consumers
from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. Exact data on defense spending are not available, since a large
portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign financed--the
Emergency Fund.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 19 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 44 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. HIoney and
quasi-money expanded by 26 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
rise in 1976 at 10 percent, but the real rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1976 remained high.
13.       Balance of Payments.  Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports from $1,003 million to $1,612 million between 1973 and 1976, export
earnings fell well short of imports, which rose from $1,664 million to $4,214
million. Indeed the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due
to increases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. The
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.



- 4 -
imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by fast-growing
earnings from services and from workers' remittances; the latter rose from
$205 million in 1974 to $757 million 1/ in 1976. Nevertheless, the overall
deficit on the trade and services account reached $1,518 million in 1976,
increasing from $654 million in 1973.
14.       Balance of Payments estimates for 1977 are still provisional.
The indications are that imports will be about $5.4 billion, while exports
are put at around $2.2 billion. A surplus of $1.6 billion is expected
on the services account (where the main contributor is workers remittances,
estimated at $1.4 billion); the current account deficit is thus estimated
at about $1.6 billion.
15.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1973-1977
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1973 and 1974 the deficit was also
met by substantial short-term borrowing, including the use of banking facili-
ties. The Government has taken action in 1977 to drastically reduce reliance
on such financing (see also paragraph 29).
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities into which they are
channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the growth of
consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastruc-
ture (particularly ports, power, transport and telecommunications); (iii)
greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on completing
ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of prices
(including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move towards
increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented and
employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial capacity
more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and encourag-
ing small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb the
growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan, which has been presented to the National Assembly.  The first year
of the Plan has been approved and approval of the entire Plan is expected
during the current Parliamentary session.
17.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
I/ Including the financing for "own exchange" imports.



- 5 -
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply
the growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to con-
tinue to rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in
about 1980--there is then likely to be a substantial increase; (iii) pros-
pects for oil production, which are put at one million barrels a day by 1982,
substantially exceed domestic requirements; (iv) considerably increased
earnings from tourism--these reached an estimated $398 million in 1976; and
(v) an increasing flow of remittances ($757 million in 1976) from Egyptians
working abroad. 1/
18.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East.  Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take at least 5-10 years to achieve
a significant restructuring of the economy.
19.       Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) a Deputy Prime
Minister was appointed with the special responsibility to coordinate economic
and financial policies and planning; (ii) the parallel exchange market has
been successively widened to comprise all exports except raw cotton, rice and
petroleum and Suez Canal revenues, and all imports except basic mass consumption
commodities; (iii) the parallel market rate itself was further depreciated to
about 56 percent of the official rate; (iv) the attractiveness of the parallel
market was increased by establishing a list of items which may be imported
through it without exchange restrictions; (v) parallel market imports were
valued for customs duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure
equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable
imports); (vi) ceilings on interest rates were removed and interest rates
increased; (vii) the "general organizations" that exercised 'rigid control over
public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "higher councils,"
which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises; and
(viii) in April 1977 the IMF approved a Standby arrangement for an amount
of SDR 125 million (about $145 million) over a 12-month period.  Discussions
are in progress on what arrangements should follow the current Stand-by.
20.       The Five-Year Plan (1978-82).  The 1978-82 Plan advocates a high
growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive and supported by
increasing income from petroleum, the Suez Canal, and remittances from
Egyptians working abroad. In the context of the "open-door policy", the
domestic and foreign private sectors are expected to play an increasing role
1/   A substantial amount of remittances ($399 million in 1976) caine in the
form of "own-exchange" imports, i.e. commodities financed by Egyptians
working abroad, and hence not involving a transfer of foreign exchange
from Egypt.



in the development effort, although the public sector will retain its dominent
position.
21.       Real output is projected to grow at 12 percent per annum.  This is
based both on a high level of investment and its increased efficiency. The
investment ratio is expected to increase from 20 percent in 1976 to 28 percent
in 1982, and the incremental capital-output ratio is expected to average 2.5
during the Plan period.
22.       The Plan's investment allocations give primary emphasis to infra-
structure and industry. Thus, more than 50 percent of public investment is
designated for the various components of infrastructure, and around 30 per-
cent for industry and petroleum. Agriculture and irrigation are allocated
only 8.6 percent.
23.       The Five-Year Plan will be implemented through the mechanism of
Annual Plans, which will take account of the actual circumstances prevailing
at the time and modify the targets and the strategy in an appropriate manner.
The first such annual plan--that for 1978--has been approved. It aims at
a lower growth rate than implied by the 1978-82 Plan, and adopts a more
optimal strategy by allocating nearly 80 percent of investment to completing
or rehabilitating existing projects. However, the main targets of the Five-
Year Plan--for investment, growth, and the marginal rate of savings--remain
ambitious, and will probably require continued modification by subsequent
Annual Plans.
External Assistance
24.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
25.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Commitments of Western medium- and long-term
(M&LT) capital assistance began to grow after October 1973, but because of the
slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, actual transfers began to
become substantial only from 1976.
26.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$200 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.



- 7 -
27.       Consultative Gro.  In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan, and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12, 1977. At the meeting, the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed the most important problems confronting
the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and its needs for
external assistance. The delegates recognized that the structural changes
undertaken by the Government would take a number of years to complete. They
felt that the Government was taking energetic steps towards accelerating
growth and expressed their support of the Government's statement on its
development strategy and of its efforts to direct future development within
the framework of an integrated plan. Another meeting of the Consultative
Group has been scheduled fEor June 1978. Estimates of the aid requirements
for 1978 are still very tentative (in part because the final outcome for 1977
is not yet available). The indications are that if Egypt succeeds in imple-
menting a substantial development effort in 1978 and continues to reduce the
use of banking facilities, it will require gross external inflow in the
neighborhood of $3.3 billion. Because of the already reduced use of banking
facilities and the greater effort expected from Egypt to mobilize its own
foreign exchange resources (e.g. through the use of development bonds) it
is likely that the cash aLd requirements will decrease. However, commodity
aid requirements will remain important, both to meet the balance of payments
gap and to generate domestic resources.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1977 was estimated at about $8 billion as compared with
$5,858 million at December 31, 1976. A large part of this increase represented
the replacing of short-term (180 days) banking facilities, which had led to
serious liquidity problem, with loans of maturity of 10 years of more. Of the
total of about $8 billion, medium and long-term loans amounted to $5,458
million (of which $730 miLlion was in clearing currencies), medium- and
long-term deposits with the Central Bank to $1,938 million, and suppliers
credits to $640 million. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia,
followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 3 percent of the total debt disbursed and outstanding. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $897 million
in 1976, giving a debt service ratio of 25 percent. 1/ No reliable estimates
of military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain
rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
29.       Commercial bankers' credit facilities outstanding at December 31,
1977 were $1,131 million of which $556 million were disbursed as compared to
$2,123 million, of which $1,396 million were disbursed at December 31, 1976.
This type of external indebtedness created severe liquidity problems for Egypt
1/   Ratio of amortization and interest on medium- and long-term (M and LT)
debt to foreign exchange earnings.



in 1976 when payments arrears were building up. These increased substan-
tially during the first half of 1977 but by the beginning of September 1977
had all been cleared through receipt of $1,075 million under a cash loan from
GODE and the mobilization of additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt, 1/
specifically $200 million in 5-7 year Development Bonds.
30.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph
19 above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's
economic situation and international environment.  The situation however,
requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's request,
the Bank has arranged to continue reviewing developments in the economy by
economic missions three or four times a year.
31.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, the deficit on the current account is estimated at about $2-2.4
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged,
including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing medium-
and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is
estimated at 25 percent in 1976 and is expected to decline to 16 percent in
1980. It is then expected to rise again to about 20 percent in 1983, before
starting to decline to about 17 percent in 1986. In these circumstances Egypt
(o    may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in addition
to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the ground of its poverty and
difficult balance of payments position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 2/
32.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's thirty-fourth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1,062 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of February 24, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
33.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is
to support its development program through lending for (i) increasing utiliza-
tion of available productive capacity, (ii) projects which would increase
production and foreign exchange earnings or substitute for imports, partic-
ularly in the key industrial and agricultural sectors, (iii) projects aimed
1/   The remaining tranche of $650 million from the Gulf Organization for
Development of Egypt (GODE) was diverted largely into financing the
import of an agreed list of commodities. By December 31, 1977 approxi-
mately $150 million had been disbursed.
2/   Paragraphs 33 to 36 are virtually identical to the recent President's
Report for the Second Telecommunications Project (see footnote I on
page 1).



at rehabilitation and exparlding infrastructure necessary to facilitate develop-
ment, and (iv) selected social sectors, namely population and education. The
impact of Bank/IDA participation in projects has been widened by attracting
additional foreign exchange required for several of these projects from other
donors. Besides including technical assistance included under many Bank/IDA
projects, the Bank is Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power
Sector Survey and for a Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use.
The Bank also extended limited technical assistance in the preparation of a
five-year development plan and in October 1977 in the establishment of an
investment monitoring system.
34.       The projects financed to date have been in support of the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future lend-
ing is following the same line. A second textile project, an agricultural
development project, and an urban development project have been appraised, a
second population project is being appraised while a second education project
and a tourism project are to be appraised soon. A pipeline of projects for
possible future lending is also being developed, including projects in water
supply and sewerage, population, education, power, rural development, trans-
portation, agriculture (including drainage) and industry.
35.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1977 to represent less than
4 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank and IDA
shares of total external diebt outstanding and disbursed were about 1 percent
and 2 percent, respectively at the end of 1977. For the future, the Bank and
IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 4 and 2.5 percent respectively in 1980.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3.5 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
36.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in 1976 and the second, for a ready-
made garment project, in 1977. IFC is also discussing several other private
sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
37.       Industry represents a large and significant sector of the Egyptian
economy. The share of industry (defined as including manufacturing and mining
but excluding petroleum) in GDP is estimated to have increased from around 8
to 10 percent in 1946 to 21 percent in 1975. Industry employed about 1.2
million persons in 1975, i.e. nearly 13 percent of the civilian labor force.
The sector is also responsible for some 35 percent of total exports. The
industrial sector is dominated by the public sector, consisting of some 200,
mostly large, companies. These generated two-thirds of the value added in
industry and provided about half of the total industrial employment in 1975.
The private sector has about 4,000 firms employing 10 or more workers, mostly



- 10 -
in the 10 to 50 workers group. Firms with less than 10 workers (the artisanal
sector) comprised 113,400 establishments employing an estimated 330,000 persons
in 1974 and are mainly concentrated in domestic consumer products and services.
Textiles, food products, leather, woodworking and furniture, and engineering
(including metallic products and transport equipment) are the dominant indus-
tries of private activity and also of small-scale manufacturing.
38.       Recent performance of the public industrial sector in aggregate terms
has been mixed as reflected in the growth of output and exports. Aggregate
output growth in real terms in 1973 and 1974 was low (about 2.1 percent and
2.6 percent per annum) but jumped to about 8.1 percent per annum in 1975.
Aggregate public sector exports increased sharply from LE 118 million in 1973
to LE 168 million in 1974, but have stagnated since then. The performance of
the private sector during the past five years has been somewhat better. Total
private sector output which stagnated during 1972-74 increased by a remarkable
annual average of 24 percent in current prices and 15 percent in real prices
between 1974-76. Though the portion of total private industrial output which
is exported remains small -- only 6 percent in 1976 -- private sector exports
almost doubled between 1973 and 1975. However, private sector exports have
been mainly directed towards the Eastern European countries, which renders
exports highly vulnerable to political developments, as was the case in 1976
when exports to clearing countries declined by 43 percent compared with 1975.
Employment in the private sector despite low levels of investment increased by
an impressive 55 percent between 1966/67 and 1974 or at an annual rate of 6.7
percent per annum.
39.       The performance of Egyptian industry does not reflect its full
potential, since shortage of foreign exchange needed for imported inputs and
renewal and modernization investments has hithertofore limited capacity util-
ization. Poor performance of the public sector is a result also of lacking
management and inefficient labor policies (overstaffing, lack of incentives,
etc.), low technical efficiency, insufficient decentralization of authority to
plant management and inefficient allocation of resources. Major problems con-
straining the growth of private industry and also of small-scale industries
(SSI) include: out-of-date machinery, poor maintenance, deficient production
and management and marketing problems. The major issues which emerge from the
examination of the industrial, administrative and policy framework include the
need for revising the system of price controls and the current import tariff
structure. Devolving greater autonomy to the management of public sector
firms with regard to employment and pricing policies and improvement or
addition to plant is important. For the private sector and particularly for
SSI, there is an urgent need to develop a long range policy to promote its
development which should include reorganizing the administrative set-up and
establishing closer linkages between private and larger public firms.
40.       In the context of lending to industry and formulating technical
assistance activities, the Bank has had and proposes to continue discussions
of the above-mentioned sector issues. Some improvements have already been
achieved through focussed lending and technical assistance. Thus, the Bank
has been able to (a) make some progress towards developing long-term lending
practices through DIB; (b) help modernize Egypt's major industry - textiles;



- 11 -
(c) through the imports loan, provide much needed foreign exchange for the
purchase of raw materials and balancing equipment; and (d) provide assistance
to expanding fertilizer and cement production, both projects involving moderni-
zation and improvements in management. Further, progress has been made in the
following areas: Private sector - Law 43 which was meant to encourage foreign
investment in Egypt has been changed to eliminate weaknesses and ambiguities.
For the public sector - some progress has been achieved in improving the
efficiency of public sector enterprises through Bank financed projects such as
the two imports projects (Cr. 524 and Ln. 1064 and Ln. 1456-EGT, respectively)
and the first textile project (Ln. 1292-EGT). The Bank is planning to continue
to seek policy improvements in the context of future lending and technical
assistance activities. 1/
41.       Industrial Investment.  The public sector has been responsible for
the lion's share of total industrial investment accounting for LE 240.0 mil-
lion or about 90 percent of total investments in 1975. The share of the
private sector in total industrial investment has been exceedingly small,
averaging about 4 percent per annum during 1969-1974. In 1975, following the
more liberal policies toward the private sector, private investment is esti-
mated to have increased to LE 25 million and accounted for about 10 percent of
total industrial investment. Also, investment licenses granted to the private
sector by the General Organization for Industrialization (GOFI), whose approval
is required for all public and most private domestic projects, reached a level
of LE 95 million in 1976 for about 700 projects, twice the number and five
times the amount in 1974. These data portend an accelerated pace of private
investment in the coming years provided sufficient resources are made available
in local currency and in foreign exchange. In addition, foreign investment in
Joint-venture projects is likely to increase to substantial levels as a result
of some positive amendments to the foreign investment law in June 1977.
Financial Institutions and Industrial Financing
42.       Institutional financing for industry in Egypt is provided almost
entirely by the banking sector. Public sector industrial investments continue
to be financed primarily from the national budget and, to a limited extent,
from internally generated funds, with the Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
and previously the Bank of Alexandria (BOA) providing some long-term financing
generally for small reconstruction and expansion projects. For private sector
investments, including those of SSI, the main source of external long-term
investment funds is DIB, for both local currency and foreign exchange. The
Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB) is now an additional and important source of
foreign exchange financing for projects that can generate, and therefore repay
in, foreign exchange. Significant interest in term financing has been shown
also by two joint venture commercial banks: Chase National and Cairo Barclays.
Other financial institutions have shown some interest in consortium financing
of large industrial and tourism projects.
1/   Issues relating to the private sector in particular are being discussed
with the Government in the context of the Bank Report "Arab Republic
of Egypt: Survey of the Small Scale Industry" (Report No. 1818-EGT of
December 2, 1977).



- 12 -
43.       All the commercial banks provide short-term financing for working
capital and for investment purposes. Short-term loans are sometimes rolled
over making them disguised term loans. Many private sector businessmen use
the local resources so obtained or their own local resources for purchasing
foreign exchange in the "parallel market" or purchasing items imported under
the "own exchange scheme" (see footnote 1/ on page 5 above) which allows
Egyptian citizens earning foreign exchange abroad to import capital or consumer
goods. This practice appears to be on the increase since the "own exchange"
scheme allows private entrepreneurs to purchase imported goods at a premium of
only about 5 percent over the parallel market exchange rate. The cost of the
foreign exchange resources so obtained would compare favorably with the
on-lending terms to sub-borrowers of DIB under the proposed loan because of
the relatively lower costs on local currency loans charged by the banks. This
competition for DIB appears acute at present but may not be sustained over
time. Although the foreign exchange inflow into the parallel and free markets
has increased rapidly and is estimated at about $1 billion in 1977, most of it
is used for purposes other than private imports of capital goods and, given
the balance of payments problems facing Egypt, it is unlikely that the Govern-
ment would allow the private sector uncontrolled access to foreign exchange
funds in large amounts over a prolonged period of time. Stiff competition for
DIB in the short-term, however, cannot be ruled out and is considered an
acceptable risk in projecting DIB's business for the proposed Bank financing.
44.       Cost of Capital.  Interest rates on deposits and loans in local
currency for all financial institutions are regulated by the Central Bank
of Egypt (CBE) and, effective since March 1, 1977, have been up to 6 percent
on deposits and 8-9 percent on loans. When compared with the inflationary
experience and expectations in Egypt, the lending rates imply a negative or
at best (by Government estimates) a very low real cost to borrowers. 1/ The
issue of raising interest rates for greater domestic resource mobilization
and for more efficient allocation of resources forms a part of the on-going
dialogue between Bank-IMF and the Government on economic reform. The CBE has
already taken some corrective action by raising the interest rates generally
by 2 percentage points over the last two years.
45.       Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by the
CBE and reflect the cost of those resources. The proposed Bank loan will be
on-lent to the sub-borrowers (and repaid by them) at the parallel market
exchange rate. This rate closely approximates the free market exchange rate
and it can reasonably be expected that it will be adjusted from time to time
to reflect market forces. With the foreign exchange risk (between the US
dollar and the Egyptian pound) on Bank funds passed on to the sub-borrowers,
the proposed on-lending rate of around 10 percent is a fair approximation of
the current market cost of long-term foreign exchange in the international
capital markets. There is thus little if any subsidy implied for the sub-
borrowers.
1/   Extensive price controls make it difficult to measure precisely the
rate of inflation in Egypt. Unofficial estimates place the average
price increase around 15-20 percent p.a. for the recent past. Over
the coming five years the inflation rate is expected to ebb down to
about 10 percent p.a.



- 13 -
46.       Bank Group Assistance for Financial Sector Development.  In 1976,
IFC conducted a limited survey of the Egyptian financial sector -- legal frame-
work, institutions, instruments, etc. -- and recommended to the Government, at
its request, ways and means to improve domestic savings mobilization and credit
allocation in Egypt; IFC's recommendations are under review by the Government.
The Government is particularly interested in the development of the securities
market in Egypt and a governmental committee has been set up to liaise with
IFC and other expert institutions to develop and recommend appropriate mea-
sures. Recently, a preparatory study possibly leading to the establishment of
a bankers' training college was initiated by CBE. The preparatory study is
being undertaken by consultants with UNDP financing and the Bank as executing
agency.
Previous DFC Credits
47.       In 1973 and 1975, IDA extended two DFC credits of $15 million and
$25 million (412 and 576-EGT, hereinafter referred to as IDA I and IDA II,
respectively) to BOA that were transferred to DIB after its establishment in
August 1976. 1/ The Credits had the dual purpose of providing foreign exchange
financing for industrial projects in the private and public sectors, and of
institution-building. IDA's institution-building efforts were directed first
at forming a term-lending window within BOA, named Special Services to Private
Industrial Sector (SSPIS), and later on DIB, the successor to SSPIS.
48.       IDA I is fully committed but is expected to be drawn down only by
March 1979, some 18 months behind the appraisal estimate chiefly because of
slow implementation of on,e sub-project. Commitments under IDA II were very
slow during most of 1976 because of the process of creating and staffing the
new DIB and of transferring to it the IDA credits originally made to BOA, but
they picked up following the establishment of DIB. As of February 15, 1978,
total commitments under IDA II had reached $23.9 million and DIB has already
appraised projects to commit the balance of the credit by end-MIarch 1978, nine
months behind the original target date. Disbursements are progressing satis-
factorily.
49.       The sub-projects financed under IDA I and II up to July 30, 1977
required an estimated LE 48 million in total investment. Additional jobs
expected to be generated by these sub-projects are estimated by DIB at around
5,000 inspite of the fact that about 50 percent of the financed investment is
in modernization and expansion projects which have low employment generation.
The average cost per job for private sector investment is estimated at about
$12,700 while for public sector investment almost twice as much; this is
because public sector investments tend to be concentrated in basic and capital
investment industries. Estimated economic rates of return of these projects
range from 10 percent to 27 percent and financial rates of return range from
12 percent to 32 percent. Data on sub-projects completed show that overruns
in cost and time were small and limited to only a few projects. This perform-
ance of sub-projects, considering the numerous administrative difficulties
1/   Ref:  President's Memorandum (IDA/R 77-8), dated January 28, 1977.



- 14 -
faced by promoters in Egypt in implementing projects, is very satisfactory.
Furthermore, in the process of appraising and supervising these projects, DIB
performs an indirect technical assistance function that is of service to the
clients.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Borrower: DIB
50.       DIB was created by law and commenced operations on August 1, 1976
when the offices, activities and most of the staff and local currency port-
folio of the SSPIS unit of BOA were transferred to DIB. DIB was appraised
by IDA in August 1976 and IDA's Executive Directors approved the transfer of
IDA I and IDA II -- and in effect the entire foreign exchange portfolio and
resources of SSPIS -- from BOA to DIB in March 1977. IDA has provided substan-
tial assistance to DIB in formulating its organization structure, policies,
procedures and operational and financial plans. DIB's authorized share capital
of LE 10 million is fully paid-in. The Arab Republic of Egypt through its
Ministry of Finance is the sole shareholder, but its interest is administered
by CBE. Conversion of DIB into a joint venture bank with IFC and some other
foreign institutions was under consideration during 1977 but this idea has now
been dropped by the Government.
51.       Organization:  DIB operates through its head office in Cairo and
two branch offices in Cairo and Alexandria. Branches in other parts of the
country will be opened as and when supported by actual or potential business
in those areas; meanwhile, branch offices of BOA are being used as corres-
pondent banks. DIB's organizational structure is satisfactory.
52.       Board of Directors:  The number of directors of public sector banks
is fixed by law at seven members, to include five from within and two from
outside the Bank. The composition of the Board limits the experience and
expertise it can draw from suitable external directors. There are at present
no plans to change the legal set-up -- which had only been approved in 1975
when for the first time outside members were introduced to the Board. The
Government and the Central Bank recognize that in the case of DIB there is a
special need to nominate to its Board candidates that are qualified and
experienced to cope with DIB's role as the primary institution for private
industrial lending. The most recent vacancy in the Board had therefore been
filled with a qualified former staff member of the Central Bank. Moreover,
the Government confirmed its intention to continue filling future vacancies in
DIB's Board with persons of high qualifications and suitable professional
and business experience and to keep the Bank informed of possible changes in
the law regarding the composition of the boards of directors of public sector
banks. Moreover, as part of its current efforts to strengthen its Board of
Directors, DIB will establish by about October 1978 an external advisory com-
mittee to its Board. The Government will take all necessary steps on its
part to assist DIB in establishing the committee. The committee will be com-
posed of three to five experts in finance and industrial development. Within



- 15 -
one year of the establishmpent of said committee, DIB and CBE will review its
effectiveness with the view to determine whether additional or different mea-
sures are required for DIB's Board to meet its expanding activities in the
promotion and financing of industrial development in Egypt. DIB will share
the findings of this review with the Bank.
53.       Management and Staff:  DIB's senior and middle management remains
essentially the same as it was in the SSPIS unit of BOA, and so is well known
to the Bank. In the next few years, DIB will be expected to gradually develop
into a more dynamic institution, capable of actively promoting private indus-
try and of being its spokesman with the Government on policy formulation. For
this to become possible, further strengthening of the management team will be
necessary. During 1978, some vacancies are expected to arise in senior man-
agement positions, and it is important that they be filled by highly qualified
and experienced persons. DIB will inform the Bank of the qualification and
experience of persons nominated for appointment to general manager positions.
In order to assist DIB's management, DIB will employ by about October 1978
a management adviser and a technical adviser, both for up to two years for
operational and financial planning, policy development and implementation, and
for further strengthening of the bank's management information system, project
appraisal and supervision procedures. The qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of these advisers will be cleared with the
Bank.
54.       DIB's program to strengthen its operational staff in number and in
quality is satisfactory and forms part of its implementation strategy for
its current and future operations. A Strategy Statement has been submitted
and agreed to by the Bank. DIB will keep the Bank currently informed of any
major changes in this Strategy Statement. The upgrading of salaries of public
sector banks that went into force in January 1978 is helping DIB to attract
qualified and experienced additional staff. Staff training programs are being
developed and financed under IDA II and from a USAID grant funding. Additional
funds for advisers and staff training are included in the proposed loan.
55.       Functions and Policies:  The primary function, as stated in DIB's
Policy Statement, is to promote and finance productive industrial enterprises
mainly in the private sector, including cooperatives, artisans and other SSI.
DIB's assistance to the public sector is limited generally to financing of
small- and medium-size reconstruction and expansion projects, or to marginal
financing of larger projects, supplementing budgetary allocations for invest-
ment purposes and self-financing in order to expedite project implementation.
DIB provides financing in the form of medium- and long-term loans (local and
foreign currency) and equity participations. Medium-term hire-purchase loans
constitute an important part of its financing of SSI. DIB also provides work-
ing capital facilities and issues guarantees, but mainly as support activities
for its long-term financing business. DIB's financial policies are enumerated
in its Policy Statement and are satisfactory. These include a maximum debt/
equity ratio of 6:1 for DIB. Under the existing agreements for IDA I and IDA
II, DIB has agreed to the customary stipulation that any changes in its Policy
Statement would require prior approval of IDA. This agreement has been recon-
firmed under the proposed loan (Section 1.02 (h) of draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
56.       Procedures:  The quality of DIB's project appraisals, particularly
financial and economic analyses, has steadily improved. The capability for
technical analysis has, however, not grown sufficiently in relation to growing
business owing to lack of engineering staff, and outside consultants are often
employed. The appraisal of SSI loans is generally weaker. Supervision pro-
vides DIB's management with up-to-date and useful data on clients and on proj-
ects under construction; however, lack of qualified staff for supervision,
particularly financial analysts, does not permit comprehensive supervision of
other projects and proper processing and analysis of feedback data to manage-
ment and to the appraisal departments. Weaknesses in project appraisal and
supervision will be addressed by the proposed technical adviser and through
training. DIB has already launched a recruitment campaign for qualified
staff, particularly engineers and financial analysts and this program is
progressing satisfactorily. As for the management information system, it has
steadily improved and will be further strengthened with the assistance of the
proposed management adviser.
57.       Operations:  While under the SSPIS/BOA arrangement the operations
were dominated by short-term lending activities; that trend, however, has been
reversed by DIB with a shift in emphasis to medium- and long-term loans. The
latter have grown substantially reaching 72 percent (LE 26.2 million) of total
loan approvals in 1977 compared to 22 percent (LE 13.1 million) for 1975 and
1976 combined. It is estimated that about 15-20 percent of term loans in
amount benefitted SSI. 1/ Equity investments have been insignificant except
for a LE 1 million, or 26 percent, participation in a joint venture commercial
bank with the Bank of America. The guarantees outstanding amounted to LE
893,000 at end-1977.
58.       On average about 87 percent of DIB' loans have been granted to
borrowers in the Cairo and Alexandria areas where most of Egypt's small- to
medium-scale industries are concentrated. Private enterprises in textile,
food processing, engineering, building materials, leather industries and,
lately, tourism are the main beneficiaries of DIB's loans, reflecting the
concentration of private industry and economic priorities.
59.       Prospects for DIB's operations in 1978-81 rest on its strategy to
increase appraisal capacity, both in quantity and quality, and on the invest-
ment demand. DIB's current project pipeline requires DIB financing of about
LE 10 million in local currency and around $116 million in foreign exchange.
The primary focus will be on private sector investment with a special effort
to assist SSI. DIB's business will be further augmented by joint-venture and
some public sector projects. The rapid growth of DIB lending since the begin-
ning of 1977 (para. 57 above) is expected to be sustained and consolidated in
1978. New approvals during 1978 have been assumed at about the level achieved
in 1977 including about $30 million in foreign exchange (term loans), and
LE 14.4 million in local currency term loans. During 1979-81 a 20 percent
1/   SSI are defined by DIB as enterprises whose fixed assets excluding land
and building do not exceed LE 150,000 (around $215,000).



- 1 7 -
annual growth rate in currE!nt terms (or about 10 percent in real terms) is
assumed and is reasonable. Equity investments are expected to be limited to a
few promotional participations until DIB builds up its institutional capability
for this new activity.
60.        Resource PositionL and Needs:  DIB's local currency requirements on
a disbursement basis are fuilly covered through 1980, given existing resources
and projected loan repaymenLts, internal cash generation and increases in
demand deposits. The existing resources include a LE 27 million line of
credit at 4.5 percent p.a. from CBE; additional resources, if required, are
likely to be provided also by GRE. As of June 30, 1977, the balance of DIB's
foreign exchange resources for new approvals amounted to around $27.5 million,
mostly from a US-AID loan cof $32 million which is tied to procurement from the
United States. The untied resources, the two IDA credits are now almost fully
committed. DIR's resource needs would amount to $80.0 million to cover foreign
exchange loan approvals between June 30, 1977 and December 31, 1979, leaving a
resource gap of about $52.5 million. DIR has secured a loan of about $6 mil-
lion from the African Development Rank. Also an OPEC Special Fund (OSF) loan
of $8.75 million which was signed in December 1977 and which is targetted for
small enterprises (para 72), has reduced that gap by about $7.0 million through
1979 since DIR is not expected to approve more than that amount for the target
group proposed by OSF. The remaining gap of $39.5 million would be covered by
the proposed Rank loan. The Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development is
also considering a loan to DIR to cover its resource needs for 1980 and
possible shortfalls -- higher than projected operations and resource needs -
through 1979.
61.        Financial Positioin and Performance:  At the time of the transfer of
IDA I and IDA II from BOA to DIR, it was agreed with DIR, BOA and GRE that the
assets transferred from BOA, to DIR including IDA financed sub-loans, would be
reviewed by a GRE appointed. valuation committee. The committee has completed
its work and the book values of the assets transferred have been maintained
and provisions for possible bad debt of about LE 785,000 will be transferred.
These provisions and additional allocations by DIR for 1976 and 1977 more than
cover all arrears in DIR's loan portfolio at present. The portfolio is con-
sidered sound and the collateral held by DIR is sufficient to cover risk of
losses. However, about half of its portfolio is in the textiles, leather and
wood working subsectors which have been suffering recently from losses of
marketing opportunities in Eastern European countries. Consequently, some
enterprises in these subsectors may experience transitional difficulties in
the near future, and as a counter measure DIR is encouraging and assisting its
borrowers to increase sales to the domestic market and to export to convert-
ible currency countries.
62.        As of December 31, 1977, DIR's total assets amounted to LE 30.1 mil-
lion, including LE 29.0 million in loans. These assets are financed mainly
with a share capital of LE 10 million, borrowings of LE 13.6 million and
deposits of LE 4.0 million. With the aforementioned projections of lending
business DIR's total assets would grow to LE 131 million by 1981, including a
net portfolio of LE 128.5 million. Additional Government equity funds of LE 7
million will be required in 1980-81 for DIR to maintain the debt/equity ratio



- 18 -
within the maximum limit of 6:1 specified in its Policy Statement. CBE
and DIB would consider an increase in DIB's capital accordingly unless a
relaxation of the debt/equity limit is considered acceptable.
63.       The estimated profits for DIB's first full year of operation, 1977,
and the profit projections through 1981 show satisfactory returns on average
equity (6.0 percent to 13.6 percent taking net profits) and total asset (6.5
percent to 8.7 percent taking profits before interest and taxes). DIB's pro-
jected profitability would be provided chiefly through its spread of about
4.0 to 4.5 percent on local borrowings and 8.5-9.0 percent on deposits and
deployment of equity funds; its spread of about 2.5 percent on foreign borrow-
ings would just about cover administrative expenses and provisions during the
early years of the period projected but would contribute to profitability over
the long run. DIB will continue to assess regularly, the competition for its
foreign exchange lending, with a view to increasing, whenever practicable, its
interest rate and other charges on its foreign exchange lending so as to reduce
its reliance on low-cost local currency resources for maintaining a reasonable
profitability. It will keep the Bank informed of such assessment.
Proposed Project
64.       The proposed project was identified in November 1976 and appraised
in July 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 6 to 10,
1978. The Egyptian Government was represented by Mr. S. Koraiem, Under-
secretary, Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation, the Central Bank of
Egypt by Mr. S. El Kasry, Sub-Governor, and the Development Industrial Bank by
Mr. A. H. Kabodan, Chairman. A Staff Appraisal Report is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
65.       The proposed loan to DIB is designed to enable DIB to continue to
perform its role as the primary institution in Egypt for the provision of
long-term financing to the private industrial sector. Further, through a
small technical assistance component, the project should help to raise small
scale industries (SSI) productivity, increase the quantum of skills available
to them, and remedy deficiencies in the commercial aspects of SSI management.
The project has been formulated for financing by both the Bank and the OPEC
Special Fund (OSF). A Bank loan of $40 million is recommended for approval.
An OSF loan of $8.75 million has already been signed. The project consists
of the following three components:
(a)  providing a part of DIB's foreign exchange requirements for
industrial 1/ financing over about two years, 1978-1979
(parallel financing by the Bank and OSF of different sub-
projects);
(b)  assisting DIB in strengthening its development banking
functions and related organization and procedures (Bank
financing only); and
1/   Industry in this context is defined broadly, as done by DIB, to include
manufacturing and processing, agro-industry, tourism and related service
activities.



- 19 -
(c) financing a program of technical assistance to SSI through
institutions other than DIB (with the Bank and OSF financ-
ing the foreign exchange and local costs, respectively).
Industrial Financing through DIB
66.       The provision of industrial finance through DIB constitutes the pre-
dominant part of the project. The entire OSF loan and $39.5 million from the
proposed Bank loan would be used for this purpose. The proposed Bank financing
would fill the resource gap in DIB's foreign exchange requirements through
1979 providing about 60 percent of the total requirement over the two years,
1978 and 1979. The sub-projects financed would be primarily in the private
sector with special efforts to assist SSI. The needs of the private sector for
replacement and modernization of equipment are widespread and the scope for
economic development and expansion is substantial. This emphasis is in line
with DIB's own policy and lending strategy which are endorsed by the Govern-
ment.
67.       DIB would be allowed to on-lend up to $10 million (or 25 percent) of
the proposed Bank loan to public sector projects. An understanding has been
reached with DIB and is reflected in its Strategy Statement that lending to
the public sector would not: be at the expense of fulfilling private sector
demand which has priority. Moreover, one or both of the following criteria
will have to be met in order to make public sector projects eligible for lend-
ing under the proposed loan: (a) project sponsors are mixed companies (with
joint Government and private ownership) or; (b) projects where at least 20
percent of the output will be exported to convertible currency countries
(Section 2.02(1) of draft l.oan Agreement). The proposed financing of public
sector projects under the loan, although small in relation to this sector's
needs, is justifiable on grounds of providing marginal financing to expedite
sound projects which fill iLmportant productive linkages in the economy and to
spread the use of proper appraisal techniques to the sector.
Institution-Building of DIB
68.       Assisting DIB in its institution building efforts remains an impor-
tant objective of the Bank in its lending to DIB. An amount of $300,000 is
included under the proposed loan primarily for the financing of a management
adviser on organization, planning and policy matters and a technical adviser
on project appraisal and supervision (see para. 53 above). Training for DIB
staff would also be eligible for financing. Technical assistance through
Bank/IDA supervision of DI]B is also expected to continue.
Technical Assistance Program for SSI
69.       The objectives of this pilot program are to raise SSI productivity,
increase the quantum of skills available to them, and remedy deficiencies
in the commercial aspects of SSI management. Delivery institutions for the
program have been chosen primarily for their organizational and, in general,
their managerial capability to discharge effectively the functions assigned.



- 20 -
Making use of already available though limited facilities, including per-
sonnel, has been an important factor in the selection process. The program
components and their implementing agencies are as follows: (i) technical
extension services, including project preparation assistance, for engineering
metal working, plastics, woodworking and furniture-making enterprises, (ii)
skill upgrading of workers in selected engineering, metal working, woodworking
and furniture-making enterprises, (iii) industrial management development for
SSI, all to be organized and implemented in Cairo by the Engineering and
Industrial Design and Development Centre (EIDDC); and (iv) accelerated training
for unskilled or semi-skilled workers of selected engineering enterprises to
be implemented by the Productivity and Vocational Training Department (PVT) of
the Ministry of Industry in Cairo and Alexandria. Many of the SSI benefit-
ting from the program will already be DIB clients and others are likely to
become its clients. The Government will establish a coordination commit-
tee consisting of representatives from DIB, EIDDC, PVT, and the Ministry of
Industry which will oversee the implementation of the program. All components
of the program are to be finalized by September 30, 1978 and implemented
thereafter.
70.       The regional coverage for this pilot program has been aimed at
Cairo and Alexandria where a majority of SSI are located.  The industry sub-
sectoral coverage has been restricted to those with urgent need and where
maximum benefits are achievable with the proposed effort.  The program is
expected to commence by end-1978 and to run for a duration of 18 months.
Towards the end of the program, the implementing agencies, the Government and
the Bank will evaluate the experience and progress made based on a set of
quantitative and qualitative criteria that have already been agreed upon.
This trial period enhances flexibility, enabling the Government and the Bank
to test the capabilities of the delivery institutions, profit from the expe-
rience to be gained and, conceivably, expand and/or redirect further efforts
as appropriate.
71.       The foreign exchange costs of the overall program are estimated at
$200,000 including $80,000 for machinery and supplies, $110,000 for 24 man/
months of services from three advisers (averaging about $4,600 per man/month)
and $10,000 for study tours and fellowships; these costs are recommended to
be financed under the proposed Bank loan. OSF has agreed to finance the local
costs, estimated at LE 200,000, from a special fund accrued by DIB from in-
terest earnings on the OSF subloans. Until sufficient funds accrue in this
manner, the Government will advance the funds to meet the local costs of the
program; it will subsequently be reimbursed from the special fund.
OSF Loan
72.       The OSF loan of $8.75 million will concentrate on financing the
smaller of the SSI, those with total assets excluding land and building not
exceeding LE 100,000 at the time of application to DIB for an OSF subloan,
with at least half the amount directed to SSI whose assets do not exceed
LE 20,000. Sub-borrowers will be charged 8 percent p.a. interest rate on OSF
subloans. This on-lending rate by DIB is lower than that recommended under
the proposed Bank loan, but it has been accepted in view of OSF's strong views



- 21 -
to provide an incentive for SSI development. In addition to SSI financing
under the OSF loan it is estimated that about 10 percent of the proposed Bank
loan, or $4 million, will be on-lent by DIB for SSI projects. It is also
estimated that about 10 percent of the total Bank loan and about 20 percent
of the combined Bank and OSF loans would qualify for the Bank's Urban Poverty
Program (UPP) target lending. (Projects with investment cost per job generated
not exceeding $3,000 in 1977 prices would qualify for UPP target lending.)
The project's emphasis on financial and technical assistance to SSI would have
benefits in terms of employment and output. The financing of sub-projects by
DIB will not involve blending of, or joint financing with, Bank and OSF funds
because the target groups for the two loans have been differentiated. The
Bank agreed to an OSF request to administer both the SSI lending and technical
assistance financing under their proposed loan.
Terms of the Proposed Loan
73.       As explained above (para. 66), DIB will use $39.5 million of the
proposed loan for industrial financing and up to $300,000 primarily for the
financing of two advisers to DIB. The remaining $200,000 allocated for the
SSI Technical Assistance Program will be onlent by DIB as a subloan to the
Government with a repayment term of 17 years, including two years grace, and
with interest and other chatrges the same as on the Bank loan to DIB. The
Government, in turn, will make the proceeds of the subloan available on a
grant basis to EIDDC. The Government and not DIB or the executing agency will
thus carry the repayment obligation for this part of the loan. The $300,000
training and technical assistance component for DIB will be repayable over 17
years, including two years grace.
74.       To ensure that repayments of industrial subloans to the Bank by DIB
are matched by repayments to DIB the usual adjustable composite amortization
schedule is proposed. The maximum term of individual subloans will, be 15
years. This will ensure that the Bank loan will be repaid within about 17
years (allowing about two years for commitment of individual subloans) though
most of the sub-loans will be repaid much sooner given the generally shorter
terms of DIB loans. DIB's onlending terms will include a spread of at least
2.5 percent unless otherwise agreed (Section 2.03(c) of draft Loan Agreement).
DIB's sub-borrowers will assume the commitment charge and the foreign exchange
risk between the US dollar and the Egyptian pound; the Government will assume
the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and other currencies owed to
the Bank.
75.       The "free limit" for individual sub-projects and the "aggregate free
limit" are recommended to be $400,000 and $16 million, respectively (Section
2.02(f) of draft Loan Agreement). These limits provide for a reasonable number
of sub-projects to be submitted for the Bank's review and approval, allowing
continued input from the Bank in strengthening DIB's appraisal techniques. All
sub-projects above the "free limit" will have to show a satisfactory economic
rate of return (minimum of 10 percent) to be eligible for DIB financing with
Bank funds (Section 2.03(a) of draft Loan Agreement). DIB would also continue
to satisfy itself on the financial and economic viability of sub-projects
below the free limit and calculate the rate of return whenever this would be
practical for these small projects.



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursements
76.       Through the project appraisal DIB ensures that procurement for all
projects follow competitive bidding or shopping procedures which conform to
Bank/IDA requirements for DFC projects. DIB's disbursement procedures are
satisfactory and well monitored. Disbursements under the proposed loan are
estimated as follows:
---------$ million--------
Bank FY    79      80      81      82
Annual                                  4.4    13.0   14.3    8.3
Cumulative                              4.4    17.4   31.7   40.0
Project Justification and Risk
77.       As explained above, the project would finance primarily the develop-
ment of the private industrial sector in Egypt which has received inadequate
attention over the last two decades. The needs of this sector for replacement
and modernization of equipment are widespread and the scope for economic devel-
opment and expansion substantial. Such development now has the approval of
the Government although the role of the public sector will remain important.
The proposed financing of public sector projects under the loan, although
small in relation to this sector's needs, is justifiable on grounds of pro-
viding marginal financing to expedite sound projects and to spread the use
of proper appraisal techniques to the sector. Also, part of public sector
subprojects to be financed would satisfy the important objective of export
promotion.
78.       The project's emphasis on financial and technical assistance to SSI
would have major social and economic benefits. The importance of the SSI
sector to the Egyptian economy, both in terms of employment and output, remains
unequivocal. Promotion of SSI can also be expected to provide greater scope
for entrepreneurial development and initiative, innovation and the development
of technical and managerial skills; promote redistribution of income; and
stimulate savings and investment. During the development of the project, DIB
itself has become convinced of the merits of SSI promotion and has set a target
of 20 to 25 percent of its total lending in amount to be directed to SSI or
UPP oriented projects, about the same as the target under the proposed project
for Bank and OSF financing. Also, through the SSI Technical Assistance Program
the Bank would initiate and contribute to the development of agencies that can
cater to the important technical assistance and training needs of SSI.
79.       As explained above (para. 43), DIB may face some competition from
other commercial banks because of the more favorable interest rates they
offer for local currency loans which, to some extent, may be used to purchase
foreign exchange. However, this competition is considered an acceptable risk
and has been taken into account in projecting DIB's business for the proposed
Bank financing. As to DIB's Board of Directors and management, it has to be
recognized that the institution is not yet strong enough to promote as actively
as it should private industry and be its spokeman with the Government on



- 23 -
policy formulation. However, with the help of the measures recommended under
the proposed project for the strengthening of DIB's Board and management team,
it is expected that DIB will gradually develop into a more dynamic institution
and to fulfill the above objective.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Development Industrial Bank and
the Bank and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
81.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 9, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3APae1o4pgs
EGYPT              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
EGYPT                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1001.4                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     29.9                       1960       197'   ESTIMATE          PHILIPPINES   TURKEY         SPAIN **
._ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _ _  -- - - -- - - -- - -  - - -- - -- - -- - -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _- _ __ _
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   110.0*   170.0*   280.0*/a              230.0*     500.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)          25.8      33.3       38.1/a             36.9       35.6        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      26.0      33.0       38.0/.            123.0       46.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0       1125.0   1273.0/a            375.0        65.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        44.5      42.1       37.8               44.2       40.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         20.7       17.0      14.0               13.2       14.4         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      109.0     116.0   100-115               81.0       153.0/a     27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      44.9      49.9       52.4               55.6       54.4        70.5
GROSS REPhJDUCTION RATE              2.8/a    3.0         3.0                3.3        2.6/b.c    1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.4       2.6        2.3                3.0        2.5         1.1
URBAN                                6.0       3.6        3.4                4.0        4.9/d       2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         38.0      42.1       44.6               27.6       38.7        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      43.0      42.1         ..              45.6        41.7       27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                      54.0      54.7         .-              51.6        54.0       62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.0       3.2         ..                2.8        4.3         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9       0.8         ..                0.9        0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8       1.8/a       .-                1.5        1.1/e       1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..    488.0    1239.0               320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ,.         ,,      21.1                2.0        8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        7800.0/b 8300.0/b 9600.0/a             12400.0    14500.0/f  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        57.07fF   53.07W    43.971a             55.0/a     67.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)          5.0        3.0       1.47W              7.6        4.0Oa       1.1/a
INCOME DISTRlBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           19.2/C               21.0/c               ..       32.8/h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           48.47?      ..       46.0 7               ..       60.6s7
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.67?       ..       5. 27               ..        2.97W
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           14.1         ..      16. 0C/c                       9-4/h
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..         ..        ..                 ..       53.0
X OWNED BY SM'ALLEST 10% OWNERS         ..         ..        ..                           0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2500.0/d  1910.0    1820.0/ b               *      2250.0       740.0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        730716./C12OI,.                             .     170.0/i      22.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         200.07    460.0-    460.0                850.0      500s 0      220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -                         106.0      113.0              86.0       112.0       107.0
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        95.0     160        1308.                          1.          0.
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             56.0      66.0      70.7                45.0       78.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0/f    16.0      16.0                22.0       22.0_j      40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           39.3                   ..                6.6       14.7/k       0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      66.0      69.0       72.0              113.0      109.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    16.0       33.0      40.0               49         28.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0      12.0       12.0               10.0       11.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                    22.0      19.0       19.0                6.0/b     14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               20.0         ..      40.0                 ..       55.0/1      94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               1.6          .                                                  * .  1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                     60.0 a       ..        ..               76.0       64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                36.Oja      ..       40.0/a.f           23.0       41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
To ELECTRICITY (5)                     ..       ..       20.0/a,f            7.0       18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        58.0      132.0    140.0                72.0        89.0      214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          3,0        4.0       6.0                8.0         4.0       71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         102.0      228.0    280.                235.0      247.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              1.3        1.0       N                  2.0         0.7        5.8
___ __ ___ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ __--- -- ---- -- ---- --                  -- - --- - -- -- ---- - -- ----
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX i
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOT/ES
nless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to aey year hetwtee  1959 aed 1961, for 1970 betweon 1968 and 1970, and for Moet Runner Estimate betwer
1973 and 1975.
GNP pee capita data -er  based on the World Back Atlas methodology (1974-76 basin).
- .p5ina acrreoafi  dimerolficatior of its e-nomie s tractore, degree of ind-atrialioation and devolapment of t-ariu  make-, it an apprapriate
"objective" rountry.
EGYPT           1960    /o  1950-55;    /b  Figres- elata ta persona sic years and over, exclading nomad population;    It  1964-65;    /d  1962;
/e  Inclading assistant  -ornea sod nidwives;    /f  1960-62;         g  UVrban only.
1970    /a  Ratio of population onder 15 and 69 and over to total labor fo-ce age 12-64 years;    /b  Relates L. 12-64 yeare of age, 1966;
/c  Regiotered, not all pranlicing in the coastry.
MOST RECENT ESTTMAE:    /'a  1976;    /b  1972;   /I  RNaal only, basod on e-penditure toryey of hoaseholde;    /d  Registered, not all
practicing in the coantry;    /e  1971;    /f  Percentage cf popslation.
PAILIPPIhES    1970    /a  As percentage of employnY-t;    /b  Not  incloding private vovotional schools.
Tt7RKEY         1970    'a  1967,    /b  Fxclode-  17 eastern proyinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;   /I  RNtio of populatuio  ceder 15 snd 65 sed
over to labor force 15 yeara and over        /f  15 years sod over eselod-s unoeploved;    g9  Regict-red only;    /h  Diaposable
incom;    /i  Inclwdisg assistant nurses and eidwiea ;    /j  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /I  Per.ons 0i  year-  -ad over
who tell the censu tuksers thot they coo read and aite.
SPAIN           1970    Ea Employment office estimate;    /b  Regisutred, not all practiling in tho vountry.
k8, Febrsary 22, 1978
DEFINiIEENS OP NFCLAL INDICATORS
Land area  Ithac ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~povolasion r.etnrsi:9era     Pplta  divided by o-nhr of pro-titing
Total - Total sueface orea comprising land area sod inland -atero.                        ale ed fo Fel gredoate nurses  "trained" or "cetified" ourse, and
Agric. - Moos recessesticate of agricultural ares sued temporarily or                    a_7iliaty personnel with  training or e"perience.
Permaenty ior crPe. passre  . caker & kitohen gardeos or to litoPrleisprhsia  bedt- Popolatior divded by sombor of hospital beds
fall.        f                                                                         available in publin and private general and upecialied honpiL  sod
rehabilita ti-ow ceters;  u-ludes morsiog homes and establisios-ts far
G3y per capita (US$  - GNP per capita esti-ates at content narket prices,               custodial and preyentive rare.
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);           Per .apita soPPlY of calories  (% of re-qir-es tu) - Compated from  energy
1960  1970 and 1975 data.                                                             equivalent of not food supplies available in ..u.try per capita per day;
available supplies nomprise domeotin prodution, imports less eports,
Population and vital stasisttcs                                                          and changee in sto-k; net s-pplies euclade anim-l feed. seds., q-antities
Population (nid-yr. nillian)  - As of July first:  if sot available,                     qsed in food p-o-easiug and losses in distributian; requirmenets aere
average of too ond-yeae estimates; 1960, 1970 sod 1975 dan.,                           estimated by FAD based on physiological needs foe normal a-tivity and
health cousidering ermiroomental temperatre, body weights, age snd se-
Popolati-o density-pot  square ka - Mfid-year populatian per square kilo-                distribotione of popolation, and allowing 10i for waste et household level.
meter (101 hectares) of total ares.
Population density-perr anire hr of sane,  land - Computed as shabe for               Perapts supply of protein (Irams per day) - Pr-tein  -ontent of per
=gri-ltuen1 land only.                                                                capita net supply of food per day; net supply of food go defined as
above; -equirents for all ountries established by USDA El-cooic
Vical statistics                                                                         Research Seryices provide for a minimum allowo_c_   of 60 grons of
frnde birth rain pe  thoosand. average - Annual live births per thousand                 totol protein per day, and 20 grams of animal Bnd pwlse protein,of
of mid-year popolatio; ten year arithmetic  averages ending in 1960 and               which 10 grant :hould be snimal protein; these scedardo are lower
1970, send fims-yor av-rage e-ding in 1975 for east terror estimane.                   thr che.ss of 75 grace of total protein sod 23 goama of animal protein
Crude death rate per thousand. average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-              as  an average for the wald, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
year population; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 sod              "orvey.
five,-ye an ove age -edIog in 1925 foe most re..e.t estimate.                        Per -apita erotein sorly from animal cad_yessiso   'roteiu supply of food
ivo  mo-rtaeity rate (cIho) - A-nc1  deaths of icfasts under one year                    derived from a-imale and puls nin grams per day.
of age per thousand live births.                                                     Death rate (/thou) agee 1-4 - Annual deaths per tho--and in age group
Life ePterfanuy at birth (yes)  - Average nsmber of years of life  r4maic-               1-4 years, to children in thin age group; s-ggesced as an indic-tor of
iog at hirtch  asually five-year aversges ending in 1960, 1970 sod                     malnuritinn.
1975 far developing contries.
Gross reproducion rote - Average eusber of live daughters a woman will                 Education
hear in her normal reproductive period if she -eperiences present age-               Adljutned enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as
specific fertility rates; osally five-year averages ending in 1960,                    percentage of primary school-age papalation; includes children  aged
1970 and 1975 for developing c.untries.                                                6-11 years bat adj-sted for different lengths of primary edwcation;
Poplation growth rate (17  - total - CEmpound acessal growth rates of mid-               fot countries with maiversal educstion, eneiLmeait may ruceed 100%
year ppoplatise for 1950-f6, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                      eioce some popils err below or sbown the officiai srhool age.
Population  orooth rate  /)- - -r- - Computed like growth rate of total                Adjusted  erollment ratio - serondary school - Compoted as shove;
population; different definitions of urban areas may effect compare-                   secondary edweation reqeires at least fosr years ci approved primary
bility of data amon  c-ontci-s                                                         irott..ction; prowides genera, v-stie..aI or teacher training
Urban prolotton (7%  f tonal) - RNtio  of urban to eotal popnlatioe;                     instructim  for pupils of 12 to 17 iraei of  ge;coer pra dnin
different definitiens of  Irban areas coy aff_et comparability of data                 coses are generally eocludod.
mmowng eounstries,                                                                   lears of schooling  erowided   (first and -e-ond levels) - Total years of
Aosestructure  (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),             schooling; a1 aecondary level, vocational  irstructise  may be par-
snd retired (65 years and ower) as percentages of mid-year populatipm.                 tially or completely encluded.
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of populatiom under 15 sod 65 sod over to                 Vocational eorollment (7, of secondary) - Vocational institutiows
those of ages 15 thro-gh 64.                                                          include te-hnical, industrial or other programs which operate
Eo-owic dePeudrecy ratio - Ratis of populatiow under 15 and 65 and over                  indepeedently or as departmenas so secondary instutions.
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 yease.                                     Adult lituracy rate (O) - Literate adalts (able to read and write) as
Family plannig   - soceotoes  (cumulaive. thoS-         wltive number of                 percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and ever.
ac_ep_ors of birth-control davi-a mader a.spices of nItio.al family
plan-ing sragram  sinee inception.                                                   Housing
Fa-ily plauning - users (% of married womeS) - Penr Itagoa of married                  Persons . eo  room  (urban) - Average comber 0f persons per room in
women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices                 occupied conveotionol dwellings in urban areas   wellings exclode
to all married women in sati  ago group.                                               non-permanent snructutes and unoccupied parts.
Occupied dwellings without pi,ed water (7) - iOccpied  -onyentional
Emplovment                                                                               dwellings in urban and tonal areas wirhout inside or outside piped
Total labor force 'thousand) - Econominally sotive persone, including                    water facileitis at perceetage of all o-rupiad d..ellingu.
a-ed firces and unemployed hot excluding hossewives, stwdents, etc.;                 Acress ts electricitv  (%. of all dwellings) - PCnventiowal dwellings
definitions in various countries are not cmaparable.                                   with electricity in living qmarters as percent of tnotl dwellinge in
Labor forse in agriculture (%) - Agricunlt-rl labor force (in farming,                    otbhe  and natal areas.
forestry, hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor for-e.                   Rural dwelliRgs  oennected to electriitv  (7  - Com,sted as above for
Vnemployed (% of labor farce) - Unemployed are  -sually defined an                       rural dwellings only.
persows who are able and willing to take a job, oat of o job on a
given day, rmained eot of a job, and seeking work fora sparified                    Cfos-mPtiso
mini.m  period eoa et ceeding one week; may not be compareble between                Radio receivers (pet thou pop) - All types If receivers for radio broad-
cos-tries due to differont definitions of unemployed sod eource of                     custs to general public per thousand of population; e-clades
data, e.g., amployment office statiutics, sample sorveys, compulsory                   _nlicensed receivecs ie cwuntries  and in years wr. eu registration of
unemploymnot Insurance.                                                                redio sets wau in effect; data for recent years  eay uot be conpar-ble
since moat coosnries abolished lineasing.
Income distribution - Perceutage of private inopme (both in cash sod                   Pan.ssener cats  fer thow  roe) - Passeneer cans comprise motorcars
kind) received by richest 57%, richest 20i., poorest 20%, and poorest                  seating less than sight persos-; excludes ombulan, es, beeroes and
40% of households.                                                                     military vehicles.
Ele-tricity  (kwh/yr per can) - Aenoua consumption of industriol, rom-
Distributlo  of land ownership - Percentages  of land owned by wealthiest               mercial, public and private electricity in kilow-tt hoors per rapine
10% and poorest 10% of laud  ouns,                                                     generally bhsed  w production data., withewt allosance  for losees in
grids bht allowing for imports sod exports of el.-ctricity.
he-1th and Natrtitne                                                                   Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual c..n.s.ption in kilograms
Po tulaniow per emheician - Population divided by nomber of pracuicin,lsig mated from domsnic production plus  et impo-ts of newupriet.
physicians qualified from a medical school at unfiersity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual                            Projected        1973-  1975-
1973      1974      1975      1976           1980          1975   1980           1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                (Constant 1975 Prices)                  Average Annual
Growth Rates      As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                       10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636               16,288      6.3      6.4            99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                    57        365    ..          82                 113      ..1                                  +1
Gross Domestic Income                        10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718                16,401     6.1      6.6            100   100   100
Imports(incl. no.-factor services)          -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904                -5,970    32.0       3.6             27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor servires)           1.950     2.230    2.198   2.512                4.226      6.2    14.0              18    19    26
Resource Gap                                   -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392               -1,744    75.0    -9.0               9    23    10
Consumption Expenditures                     10,115    10,887   11,836  11,806               14,179      8.2      3.7            96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (iocl. stocks)    1,373         2,149    2,867   2,304                3,966    44.0       6.7             13    24    24
Domestic Savings                                459       327        76      912              2,222   -60.0    95.0               4      1    14
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                 As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                 291       480       728      840                                                 17   16
Fuels and intermediate goods                  633     1,655    2.057   1,208                                                   38    46
Consumption Goods                             740     1,356    1,712   2,166                                                   45    38
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         1,664      3,491    4,497   4,214                                                  100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                        423        857       522      544                                                 42    33
Industrial Goods                             580        817    1.046   1,068                                                   58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)         1,003      1,674    1,568   1,612                                                  100   100
Travel                                       156        266       332      465
Suez Canal                                    -          -         85      312
Merchandise Trade Indices                            Average 1975 = 100
Export Price Index                             68       122       100      109
Import Price Index                             67        95       100      105
Terms of Trade Index                          101       128       100      103
Exports Volume Index                           94        88       100      114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                    33        34        33       31
Industry, Electricity & Construction           24        26        28       28
Services                                      43         40        39       41
Total                                       100        100       100      100
1977
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                       Rev.
Current Prices              Budget,                                As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                          3,180      3,658    4,549   5,914    7,641                                        34      38
Current Expenditures                      2.818      3,623    5,246   6,072    6.748                                        30      44
Budgetary Savings                           362         35      -697    -158       893                                       4     -
Public Sector Investment                  1,155      1,469    2,209   2,509    3,471                                        12     19
US $ million
DETAIL ON                   At 1975 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR            Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM        (1978-82)       1 of Total
Agriculture                2.240           9
Industry and Mining        7,085          27
Services                   2,501          10
Transport and com-
munications (Inc. Suez)  7,111            27
____________________________           Other                      7.              27
SELECTED INDICATORS                                               1973-    1975-                         Total Expenditures         26,048         100
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                      2.08      3 661/
Import Elasticity                                                 3.81      0.75-
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORXER                                                Total Labor Force                        Value Added Per Worker C           Pre
In Millions           % of Total                       In us Dollars    7. of Average
1973  1975    1973   ~1975                       1973    1975       1973    1975
Agriculture                                             4.2       4.2          47       44                       624      858        67       69
Industry                                                 1.2      1.2          13       13                     1,557   2,087        167      167
Service 2/                                              3.6       4,1          40       43                       615   1.374         6        1
Total                                                    9.0      9.5         1-0      iU                        932   1,247        100      100
I/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976.  For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
V  Includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.
February 16, 1978



EGYPT                                         ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                    Page 4 of 4
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual
1973      1974       1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                     1,003      1,674      1,568   1,612
Import of Goods, c.i.f.                                    -1,664    -3.491    -4.497  -4 214
Trade Balance                                              -661    -1,817    -2,929  -
Service Receipts                                              421        726      1,250   1,980
Service Payments                                             -414       -541       -801    -896
Service Balance                                                7       185        449   1,084
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                               -654    -1,632    -2,480  -1,518
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                    -407      -631       -476    -717
(of which suppliers' credits)                              (277)    (-285)    (-280)  (-414)
C.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts                -113        -28      -241       --
D.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                            -1,174    -2,291    -3,197  -2,235
E.   Supply of Funds                                            1,290     2,119      3,217   2,208
Private unrequited transfers                                   6        42         91       87
Official grants                                             725      1,264        988      625
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                  --         --         --
Other MLT loans                                             170        199        583      760
Suppliers' credits                                          160        273        363      501
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                      --            5     1,580      550
Foreign investment                                          --            7        20       60
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits          352        585       -264       -5
Other monetary movements, net 1/                           -123       -256       -144    -370
F.  Changes in Reserves                                          116      -172          20     -27
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                                 725     1,264        988      625
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                                    85         77      157
IDA                                                         75          55         55       40
Other Multilateral                                          --            6       100       95
Governments                                                290         595      2,507      934
Suppliers/Commercial                                       160         273        363      501
Total Public MLT Loans                                     525       1,014      3,102   1,727
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                     79          95        111      180
Repayments on Public Debt                                  407         631        476      717
Total Public Debt Service                                  486         726        587      897
Burden on Exchange Earnings (Z)
Public Debt Service                                        34.1        30.3       20.8    25.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                                 Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1977
Disbursed Only           Percent
Loans                                                5,458.3                   67.9
(of which: IBRD)                                     ( 86.6)                  (1.1)
IDA)                                    (167.9)                  (2.1)
Deposits in CBE                                      1,938.3                   24.1
Suppliers Credits                                      640.7                    8.0
Total Public MLT Debt                                                         1-1T7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                           556
1/  Includes errors and omissions                                            February 16, 1978



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                      Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 24, 1978)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved                                                                     less cancellations
Numbers           FY      Borrower          Purpose                             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR          60        SCA             Suez Canal Expansion                 56.5 
Cr 181-UAR          70        UAR             Nile Delta Drainage                  --        26.0      6.2
Cr 284-UAR          72        ARE             Railways                              -        30.0       1.7
Cr S-13-UAR 1/      73        ARE             Cotton Ginning Engineering            --        0.2       --
Cr 393-UAR          73        ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage                 --        36.0      15.7
Cr 412-UAR          73        ARE             Development Industrial Bank 2/        -        15.0       1.7
Cr 423-UAR          74        ARE             Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation         --       18.5       5.3
Cr 437-UAR          74        ARE             Population                           --         5.0       2.3
Cr S-15-UAR  /      74        ARE             Talkha Engineering                    --        0.4       --
Cr 484-UAR          74        ARE             Talkha Fertilizer                     --       20.0       4.7
Cr 524-EGT          75        ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                        --       35.0       1.9
Ln 1062-EGT         75        ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                       35.0       --        1.3
Ln 1064-EGT         75        SCA             Suez Canal Rehabilitation            50.0       --       41.5
Ln 1085-EGT         75        ARE             Tourah Cement                        40.0       --       12.1
Ln 1098-EGT         75        ER              Railways II                          37.0       --       20.0
Cr 548-EGT          75        ARE             Telecommunications                    --       30.0
Cr 576-EGT          76        ARE             DIB II 2/                            --        25.0      12.2
Ln 1239-EGT         76        APA             Alexandria Port                     45.0        --       44.9
Ln 1276-EGT 4/      76        ARE             Fruit and Vegetable Dev.             50.0       --       49.6
Cr 637-EGT          76        ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II               --       40.0      36.4
Ln 1285-EGT         76        ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II              10.0       --       10.0
Ln 1292-EGT         76        ARE             Textile Rehabilitation               52.0       --       51.8
Ln 1369-EGT         77        AWA             Alexandria Water Supply              56.0       --       55.9
Cr 681-EGT          77        ARE             Education                             --       25.0     24.3
Cr 719-EGT 5/       77        ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II                --       27.0      27.0
Ln 1339-EGT 5/      77        ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II               27.0       --       27.0
Ln 1440-EGT 4/5/   77         ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II               12.0       --       12.0
Ln 1453-EGT         77        lEA             Regional Electrification             48.0       --       48.0
Ln 1456-EGT         77        ARE             Industrial Imports                   70.0       --       70.0
Cr S-005-EGT        77        ARE             Iron Ore Beneficiation and            2.5       --        2.3
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT         78        SCA             Suez Canal Expansion               100.0        --      100.0
Cr S-20-EGT 5/      78        ARE             Water Supply Engineering                        2.0       2.0
Totals                                                                        691.0      335.1
Of which has been repaid                                                       56.5        0.6
Total now outstanding                                                         634.5      334.5
Amount sold                                                        7.5
Of which has been repaid                                           6.5          1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                633.0      334.5    706.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obligor                  Type of Business                      Loan      Equity       Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                        4.25         .75        5.0
(plus .635
contingency        (5.635)
commitment)
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready Made Garnent Industry             0.40        0.20        0.60
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan
5/ Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule.  However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.  It
is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near future,
and that disbursement will be completed during 1978. Due to inflation, the
local cost of the project has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to
$220 million. There is no foreign exchange cost overrun. Progress in project
implementation during 1976 was satisfactory and, for the first time, the
project reached the established annual target. During 1977 there were manage-
ment changes in the Drainage Authority, and the project again fell behind
schedule though achievements in the fourth quarter of 1977 were substantial.
Government allocated the required local funds for the year 1977 for the
implementation of the ongoing Bank/IDA financed drainage projects. Local
funds required for 1978 are included in the approved budget.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications
items, originally September 30, 1976, has been postponed twice to March 31,
1979; the credit account for the parts allocated to other items was closed on
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Over 30 percent of the project is complete; full completion is
expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50 percent of the
contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange costs have risen
by about 14 percent almos: entirely due to price increases of chemicals for
bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia control program
is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II project (Loan No. 1285-ECT
and Credit No. 637-EGT).
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: Marchi 31, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of January 31, 1978, $13.3 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in mid-1980 and the remainder of the full project financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed by June 1981. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works.
By Presidential Decree of 1977 the Project Implementation Unit was upgraded to
the status of a General Authority for Rehabilitation of Ginneries which should
give the management more freedom regarding financial and administrative
matters.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
iarch 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Prolect; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. In May
1977 the El Nasr Company for Fertilizers and Chemical Industries together
with the engineering contractor estimated the new mechanical completion date
as August 31, 1978, or ten months later than estimated at appraisal time.
Latest progress reports, however, indicate further slippage caused by short-
age of skilled labor and delays in the completion of civil works drawings by
local consultants.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date; March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors financed under the project has been completed and the five others are
expected to be completed shortly. To allow utilization of the undisbursed
funds, the closing date, originally, December 31, was postponed to June 30,
1978.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan
of December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress to date on project implementation has been good, although
the implementation of the reconstruction project proved to be much more
complex than originally estimated by the appraisal team. The financial
situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and revenues are both
higher than expected at appraisal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and dis-
bursements are proceeding almost on schedule. More than 90 percent of
equipment have been delivered on site.  Slow progress in civil works causes
significant delays which will result in a delay in the start-up of commercial
operations by about two years. Consultants which assisted in bid evaluation
are now assisting in supervision of project execution and improvement of the
existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced operational
difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because of



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts are
now being delivered and new locomotives have been obtained from bilateral
sources. Therefore, a gradual improvement of the traction and traffic situa-
tion is expected. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a
worsening of ER's financial position. Government is considering increases in
rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date:  August 14, 1975; Closing Date:  September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed: Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was
deferred to the second project. The part of the credit originally allocated
for the telex exchange will be used for the purchase of additional cables.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
As of February 1L5, 1978, about $23.9 million or 96 percent of the
credit had been committed under the project. The transfer of responsibility
for this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank became
effective on Miarch 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected and is now
entering an active phase. Civil engineering consultants have completed the
design of the four berth extensions. Prequalification of contractors for
dredging and construction works has started. Bids for floating cranes were
opened on October 17, 1977. Management consultants have been selected.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
The newly established Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank I4isr is
attempting, with the help of a consultant, to ensure that the various agro-
industries sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, but there
may be need for some revision in this component.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project, US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected following man-
agement changes.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a four-month delay caused by a later
and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is now es-
timated to cost about US$11 million equivalent (all in local currency) more
than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works; no difficulties
are foreseen in financing this. Early management problems have now been over-
come and both companies have developed effective Project Implementation Units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting delays in procurement.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The tariff increase required under the project is in effect and
has been reflected on the water bills beginning August 1, 1977. Consultants
for the final design of the project and the procurement of goods and ser-
vices have started work. In designing the project the consultants will
review and take into account the results of a USAID financed interim Water
Master Plan presented in September 1977.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Project units
have been set up in all Ministries concerned. Over 90 percent of the equip-
ment furniture under the project is being bid. Technical problems have been
encountered with the construction of the two Technical institutes which now
need to be redesigned resulting in a two year delay. Technical assistance
contracts have been signed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: March 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The effectiveness date of this project has been twice delayed from
November 15, 1977, the original date, to March 16, 1978 to allow for additional
time to meet the special condition of effectiveness calling for establishment
of a special fund for local currency payments for all drainage projects.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15. 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. Consultants for
the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey and for the Tariff Study have
been appointed.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1979.
Allocation of :Loan funds is almost completed. Procurement action has
commenced.
Ln No. 5-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants to prepare both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have been appointed and are working.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
One dredging contract to be financed by the Bank has been awarded
and the other is expectedl to be awarded soon; tender documents for equipment
are being drawn up.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engienering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Action on effectiveness conditions is under way.



ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DFC III) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   Seven Months (December 1976 to
June 1977)
(b) Agency which has prepared the
project:                                Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank, and date of first Bank
mission to consider the project:        March 1977
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                July 8, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  February 10, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          August 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) Eligibility criteria for public sector lending (para. 67).
(ii) DIB's on-lending terms (para. 74).
(iii) "Free limit" criteria (para. 75).



_,  '               X            P                                                t    t                      ,\                  '._.,    _    ) ;'  I'4,  4'  <
---'-,        r -    ,, e, i   S,-_    3                                          4.     Alt                                                   " '9  N a   
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'z 
! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                               -                                                                 444tc4Z?st.
/                            ',                                    /                                            --4   V-'                                     y     <   
\ ... ,r4 i \; -''. 4.44.
a---~~~~~~~9 '2
|         ,                                   *          X                   >A W          +                       A        e . d     i, A
D:- ,t' jA R A B   A
-     - - - -  --- --   - - -   -   -'                                                                                                                      \
-'                                                                                                                        Re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pd  Se
A-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT
4"  - - .,&  /   -   4'I,~~~~~~~~~~~d,ed-.d-I4-,g- 0-y4- 
>      t +1                  _ ~~~~~~~~~~- 1244h44fwl 44444k1404k
.44              ;                    --_                                                                  ;-<                                    -  4-or



