Document of                  FILE  Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     /        i
: Ii
~ Report No. 1809a-EGT
EGYPT
LOAN TO DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK FOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 28, 1978
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                 US$2.56
1 US Dollar (US$)                                     LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
(Current)
LE 1.00                        =                      US$1.43
US$1.00                                               LE 0.70
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS
GOFI                           General Organization for Industrialization
DIB                            Development Industrial Bank
BOA                            Bank of Alexandria
SSPIS                          Special Services to Private Industrial
Sector (Department within BOA)
CBE                            Central Bank of Egypt
MIDB                           Misr Iran Development Bank
USAID                          U.S. Agency for International Development
OSF                            Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) Special Fund
EIDDC                          Engineering and Industrial Design and
Development Centre
PVT                            Productivity and Vocational Training
Department, Ministry of Industry
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
LOAN TO DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK FOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .............................                         1
A.    Background ........          ...........................              I
B.   Structure .............................                                I
C.    Performance ..................................                        3
D.    Administrative and Policy Framework              ..........           4
E.    Bank Action to Improve Policy and
Performance ..................................                       7
F.    Investment ...................................                        7
II.    FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCING ...                         9
A.    Financial Institutions .......................                       9
B.    Financing of Public and Private Sector Indus-
trial Investment:   SSI Financing .............                     10
C.    Cost of Capital in Egypt .....................                       13
III.    PREVIOUS DFC CREDITS AND THEIR ECONOMIC IMPACT ....                        14
IV.    THE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK ....              ...............          17
A.    Establishment, Ownership and Control .........                       17
B.    Organization .................................                       17
C.    Board of Directors ...........................                       18
D.    Management and Staff .........................                       19
E.    Functions and Policies .......................                      20
F.    Procedures ........          ...........................            22
G.  Operations ......................                                     24
H.   Resource Position .......................,.26
I.    Financial Performance and Position              ...........         27
J.   Quality of Portfolio and Audit ...............                       28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. V. K. Chaudhry, M. Diop and S. Banerji, which visited Egypt in July
1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                             Page No.
V.   PROSPECTS AND PROJECTIONS ..............   ...........             31
A.   Industrial Sector Prospects ..................                31
B.   Projections of DIB's Operations and Finances .                31
VI.   THE PROJECT ...............  e- ...................                35
A.   Industrial Financing through DIB ...........                  35
B.   Institution Building of DIB ..................                37
C.   Technical Assistance Program for SSI    .........             37
D.   Project Justification and Benefits        ...........         39
E.   OSF Loan Features .........................                   40
F.   Joint Administration of Bank and OSF Loans ...                41
VII.   PROPOSED LOAN AND RECOMNENDATIONS ....        .............        41
ANNEX
1.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File               45



EGYPT - DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
BASIC DATA
1.        Basic features of the two IDA credits, re-lent by Government
to BOA and subsequently transferred to DIB on March 28, 1977 (data as
of February 15, 1978):
Credit 412-UAR         Credit 576-EGT
Amounts:                       $15,000,000            $25,000,000
Purpose:                       To finance BOA's foreign exchange
requirements for its development
finance operations through mid-1977
and institution-building.
Dates of Agreements:           June 29, 1973          July 30, 1975
Dates of Effectiveness:        November 29, 1973      February 19, 1976
Closing Dates:                March 31, 1979          October 31, 1979
Amounts Committed:             $15,000,000            23,900,000
Amounts Disbursed:             $13,300,000            12,800,000
Number of Sub-Projects:            53                      79
Individual Free Limits:        $100,000               $250,000
Aggregate Free Limits:         $4,000,000             $8,000,000
Relending Rates:               7 percent              8 percent
(Government to BOA/DIB)
Onlending Rates:               9.5 percent            10 percent (by BOA)
(to sub-borrowers)                                   11 percent (by DIB)
Exchange Risk Borne By:       Government              Sub-borrowers
2.        Basic Data on DIB as of  December 31, 1977 is as follows:
Date of Establishment:                  February 17, 1975
Date Commenced Operations:              August 1, 1976
Authorized Capital (fully paid-in):   LE 10,000,000
Ownership:                              100% Government
Total Assets:                           LE 30,155,000
Loan Portfolio:                         LE 29,020,000
Total Debt/Equity Ratio:                1.7/1






I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Background
.1.01     Industry has become a large and significant sector of the Egyptian
economy. The share of industry (defined as including manufacturing and mining
but excluding petroleum) in GDP is estimated to have increased from around 8%
to 10% in 1946 to 21% in 1975. Industry employed about 1.2 million persons,
i.e. nearly 13% of the civilian labor force, in 1975. The sector is also
responsible for some 35% of total exports. The average annual output growth
in real terms of the industry and mining sectors was 5-6% during 1968-72 but
slowed down to 1-2% between 1973-74 because of severe shortages of foreign
exchar,ge for procuring raw materials and other inputs. The easing of the
foreign exchange situation helped industry to achieve a 10% real growth rate
in 1975 and a similar growth rate is estimated for 1976. As limits to growth
in the agricultural sector are already apparent, the need to provide employ-
ment opportunities through the expansion of the industrial sector has become
even more essential to meet the needs of the rapidly growing population,
including migrants from rural to urban areas.
1.02      The discussion on the private sector in this chapter is taken
largely from the Bank report "Arab Republic of Egypt: Survey of the Small
Scale Industry" dated December 1977 (Report no. 1818-EGT, hereinafter referred
to as the SSI Report).
B. Structure
1.03      Egyptian industrialization has tended to be inward looking.  The
industrial structure which has emerged as a result of the import substitution
patterns of development both under private enterprises and under the planned
public-owned economy of the 1960s and early 70s is weighted heavily in favor
of industries producing basic consumer goods (textiles, food, beverages, and
cigarettes), which account for about 46% of industrial gross value added.
Intermediate products (building materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and metals)
account for about 45%, and capital goods (machinery, transport equipment,
etc.) account for only a meager 9% of gross value added. As a result of the
nationalizations of the early 1960s almost all large and medium scale indus-
trial enterprises are now in the public sector and the private sector has
been reduced to small and some medium size establishments producing basic
consumer goods.
Public Sector
1.04      The public sector generated some two-thirds of the value added in
industry and mining and provided half of the total industrial employment in



-2-
1975.  There are about 200 public sector companies, most of them large in size
of assets.  Public sector employment was estimated at about 600,000 employees
in 1975 and employment is estimated to have grown at an annual rate of 2.4%
between 1967-74 in contrast to an annual rate of 4.5% for employment in
industry as a whole during the same period. This is accounted for by the high
capital intensity of public sector projects, even if one takes cognizance of
the over-manning practices employed in the public sector as a result of social
and political pressures.
Private Sector
1.05      Despite the uninviting climate for private industry after the
nationalizations in the early 60s which lasted until the open door policy was
announced in October 1973, the private sector has managed to hold its own and
even grow, and accounted for about one-third of total value added in industry
and slightly more than one-half of total industrial employment in 1975. Tex-
tiles, food products, leather, woodworking and furniture, and engineering
(including metallic products) remain the dominant industries of private
activity and, by extension, of small scale manufacturing. Out of the 4,000
establishments employing 10 or more workers, establishments employing 10-50
workers account for 90% of the total number and 57% of the total employment
of this group. There have been no discernible changes in the size distribu-
tion between 1967-1971. Greater Cairo and Alexandria represent the major
concentration of private manufacturing industries. Together they accounted
for 72% of the total number and 77% of total employment of establishments
employing 10 or more workers in the private sector in 1971.
1.06      The artisanal sector defined in Egypt as establishments employing up
to 9 workers continues to occupy an important place within the private indus-
trial sector with a share of about 16% of gross value added in total manufac-
turing. A 1974 survey estimated that there were approximately 113,400 arti-
sanal establishments employing 236,000 persons 1/ with net output valued at LE
108 million. The artisanal sector is oriented toward production of household
consumption goods. The ranking of artisanal activities in terms of employment
are garments, woodworking and furniture, food processing, engineering, tex-
tiles, shoes and leather products and repair services. About three-quarters
of the artisanal establishments have fixed assets valued (in 1974) at less
than LE 100 and 97% at less than LE 1,000. This underscores the very low
capital base of the small artisanal workshop. Over 72% of the establishments
employ only one worker, and the average employment per establishment is two
persons. During the last decade, the artisanal sector does not appear to have
undergone significant growth or structural changes. About 50% of the artisanal
undertakings are members of cooperative societies which provide limited assis-
tance in procuring raw materials and, in some cases, marketing.
1/   Because of underreporting of employment it is estimated that actual
employment was around 330,000 in 1974 (Source:  SSI Report).



- 3 -
C. Performance
Public Sector
1.07      Recer"- performance of public industrial sector in aggregate terms
has been mixed as reflected in the growth of output and exports. Aggregate
output growth in real terms in 1973 and 1974 was low (about 2.1% and 2.6% per
annum) but jumped to about 8.1% per annum in 1975. Estimates for 1976 growth
of output are similar to those of 1975. Industrial subsectors which contri-
buted to growth include chemicals, engineering including transport equipment,
basic metals and to a lesser degree food and textiles. Aggregate public
sector exports increased sharply from LE 118 million in 1973 to LE 168 million
in 1974 but levelled off in 1975. In 1976, exports actually dropped below
1974 levels in nominal terms, mostly due to a sharp reduction in exports to
clearing countries. Textiles account for about 60% of public sector industrial
exports, which in turn account for about 75% of total industrial exports.
1.08      The performance of Egyptian public industry, as it emerges from
available data, does not reflect its full potential, since shortage of foreign
exchange needed for imported inputs and renewal and modernization investments
has hithertofore limited capacity utilization. While constraints of foreign
exchange are a major factor, it is believed that poor performance is a result
also of faulty economic resource allocation, poor management and inefficient
labor policies (overstaffing, lack of incentives, etc), low technical effi-
ciency and insufficient decentralization of authority to plant management.
Private Sector
1.09      The performance of the private industrial sector during the past
five years has been somewhat better than that of the public sector. Total
private sector output which stagnated during 1972-74 increased by a remarkable
annual average of 24% in current prices and 15% in real prices between 1974-76.
Leather, building materials, chemicals, woodworking and engineering industries
were the fastest growing, in that order, in contrast with the textile and food
processing subsectors, which performed modestly. Between 1972-76 the private
sector share of total industrial output rose from 25% to 27%, affirming con-
tinued growth. Leather, textiles and food processing industries each ac-
counted for about one-quarter of the total sectoral output in 1976. Though
the portion of total private industrial output which is exported remains
small--only 6% in 1976--private sector exports almost doubled between 1973 and
1975. Industries with significant shares in private sector exports are: chem-
icals (31%), leather (35%), textile (19%), and woodworking (11%). In 1975,
90% of total private sector exports were directed towards the Eastern European
countries, including the USSR. Such heavy reliance on Eastern European coun-
tries renders exports highly vulnerable to political developments, as was
the case in 1976 when exports to clearing countries declined by 43% compared
with 1975. As a result private sector exports decreased from LE 58.9 million
in 1975 to LE 44.3 million in 1976 inspite of a substantial increase in exports



- 4 -
in free currencies.  Employment in the private sector despite the low levels
of investment (para 1.16) increased by an impressive 55% between 1966/67 and
1974 or at an annual rate of 6.7% p.a. Accurate data on artisanal sector
exports are unavailable but some exports of traditional items such as per-
fumery products, leather goods and metal wares take place.
1.10      Major problems constraining the growth of private industry and part-
icularly of SSI include: out-of-date machinery, deficient production and man-
agement (problems involving product design and development, production plan-
ning, material selection, preventive maintenance and working conditions), and
marketing problems. Their relative importance varies with the particular
industrial activity and size of establishment. The introduction of more
sophisticated techniques and specialized machines has created the need for
skill upgrading, while increasing shortage of skilled workers (due in part to
emigration) suggests the need for devising training schemes to accommodate
unskilled workers in private industry. The lack of adequate space for expan-
sion is also a vexing problem. Timely procurement of raw materials, despite
recent improvements, still poses problems. Improvement of product quality to
satisfy standards of Western markets is an urgent need. Finally, lack of
access to institutional finance, particularly for SSIs of the smaller size,
compound the situation. To alleviate the situation, in conjunction with the
proposed loan, a technical assistance program comprising a technical extension
service and training components designed to meet specific needs of the SSI and
artisanal sectors have been formulated (Chapter VI).
D. Administrative and Policy Framework
Public Sector
1.11      Until 1975 public enterprises were managed through general organiza-
tions which had a status akin to holding companies. The general organizations
were dissolved at the end of 1975 in order to decentralize decision-making and
encourage efficiency. They have been replaced by "High Councils" which retain
a coordinating function at the subsector level as opposed to the management
role of the general organizations. However, managers of firms still do not
have the right to lay off their excess labor force nor do they have control
over final prices of output (which are fixed by the Government), or over deci-
sions to replace or add to existing capacity (which are taken by the minis-
tries concerned in coordination with the newly created High Councils). All
investment projects have to be finally approved by the General Organization
for Industrialization (GOFI), which comes under the Ministry of Industry.
Although the continued existence of regulations on prices, wages, and profits
are formidable constraints, there is ample room to improve the internal effi-
ciency of public sector companies.



-5-
Private Sector
1.12      Responsibility for implementation of various administrative regula-
tions affecting private industry is shared by several ministries, 1/ among
which the lines of communication are not always open, which hampers the devel-
opment of consistent policies and their uniform implementation. The absence
of an official definition of SSI and the patent inadequacy of the existing
administrative set-up to monitor the status and activities of private industry
compound the difficulties for planning and policy formulation. Designation of
responsibility for all activities in the private sector, excluding the arti-
sanal handicraft segment, in the Ministry of Industry, properly reorganized,
would be highly desirable.
1.13      The Government's policies toward the private sector, and the SSI in
particular, have yet to be developed in specific terms. However, the new eco-
nomic "open door" policy, by permitting the participation of private sector
firms in the country's development, has attempted to remove the uncertainty
about the role of private initiative, and to alleviate some of the severe
problems plaguing the sector. So far, the Government's measures are aimed
primarily at easing up various bureaucratic hurdles, particularly in the issue
of licenses and foreign exchange for the importation of raw materials and
equipment, a policy which is yielding tangible results. There are certain
areas where the SSI sector appears to be discriminated against (taxation and
duties on imports of capital goods available to joint venture and large domes-
tic joint stock companies, the 10% price margin in favor of the public sector
in purchases of Government stores, etc.), and remedial action is called for.
Additional major areas where attention of the Government is invited include
problems constraining the growth and development of the SSI (para. 1.10) and
a strategy to integrate the SSI sector with the rest of the industrial sector.
The SSI's role should be viewed as complementing that of the larger public and
private enterprises. Viability is most likely to be attained, it would seem,
by focusing on industrial activities with promising growth potential and
characterized by rather insignificant economies of scale, catering to special-
ized market niches including exports, or displaying complementarity with
activities undertaken by larger firms, including efficient import substitution
(See Chapter V and SSI Report for details).
Sector Issues
1.14      The major issues which emerge from the examination of the adminis-
trative and policy framework are the following:
1/   The Ministry of Local Government is responsible for artisanal industries,
the Ministry of Social Welfare regulates household production, the
Ministry of Housing approves sites for new industries, and, within the
Ministry of Industry, the Industrial Control Department administers the
product price control system and foreign exchange approval for raw
materials while GOFI approves all capital investments exceeding LE 8,000.



- 6 -
(a) Public Sector: Public enterprises can be made more economically
efficient by increasing their exposure to market forces and
long-run policies should be set to dismantle the system of
price controls. Granting of greater autonomy to plant manage-
ment on employment, pricing and other managerial matters is an
important issue concerning the public sector. Unless proper
incentives are provided both to workers and management, indus-
trial efficiency is likely to suffer.
(b) Private Sector. In particular for the private sector, there
is a need to develop a long range policy to promote its dev-
elopment. Elements of this policy should include: putting
the private sector on an equal footing with the public
sector with regard to incentives and other benefits; adopting
a definition for SSI in order to identify and focus develop-
ment support; reorganizing the administrative set-up within
the Ministry of Industry, which is overseeing the private sec-
tor to streamline its functioning; developing an information
system to monitor and assess the impact of various policies
on the performance of the private sector including actual im-
plementation of GOFI approved projects (para 1.17); promoting
the establishment of closer linkages between private firms and
larger public firms through subcontracting relationships, and;
providing increased local and foreign exchange financing through
institutional sources as needed.
(c) General. The current tariff structure consists of very low
rates on imports of raw materials and intermediate goods not
competing with domestic production, and on capital goods, with
progressively higher rates on commodities manufactured domestic-
ally, and very high rates on luxury consumer goods. The impli-
cations of such a pattern of nominal tariffs for private invest-
ment decisions should be reviewed. In particular, low duties on
capital goods imports inhibit development of local machine build-
ing industries, while high rates of protection on luxury goods
tend to favor investment in these industries. Distortions aris-
ing from these decisions could, however, be checked by GOFI. A
similar set of issues is raised by the provisions of Law 43 of
1974 regarding incentives for attracting foreign investment. The
incentive scheme under the law does not include any provision to
encourage the development of industries and the use of processes
therein which are oriented towards the production of goods with
a high domestic value added content. This should be taken into
consideration by licensing authorities in determining investment
priorities. Finally, the problems surrounding the reduction in
trade with Eastern European countries are likely to severely
affect the performance of export-based industries, both in the
private and public sectors. Improvements in product quality,
introduction of designs and performance standards to suit the
needs of western markets are needed if successful export redirec-
tion is to be achieved.
While the above issues are important to address for efficient long-term devel-
opment of the industrial sector, they are not critical to the implementation
of the proposed project for Bank financing.



- 7 -
E. Bank Action to Improve Industrial Policies and Performance
1.15      The Bank is addressing the above sector issues through specific
projects and in the course of its on-going dialogue on industrial policy with
the Government. Issues relating to the private sector in particular are being
discussed with the Government in the context of the SSI Report. An export
promotion program included under a recent Bank loan (No. 1292-EGT) for a
textile project is envisaged to help design an effective export incentive
system. A recent second Bank loan for industrial imports (No. 1456-EGT) is
addressing problems of capacity utilization and efficiency, particularly of
public sector enterprises. The technical assistance component under the
second imports loan will address industrial efficiency problems, quality
control of products and better maintenance of equipment. Six industrial sub-
sector studies financed by the Bank under the first imports loan and credit
(Loan 1062-EGT and Credit 524-EGT) are near completion and the findings are
expected to indicate policies for improving sectoral output including ident-
ification of new investment opportunities. Bank/IDA assistance to the private
sector has so far been provided mainly under the first two DFC projects (See
Chapter III). Under an education project (Credit 681-EGT), the Bank has been
upgrading training centers for the engineering trades which will complement
the training part of the technical assistance program to be financed under the
proposed loan.
F. Investment
1.16      The available data on investment in manufacturing leave much to be
desired. There are indications that official statistics tend to underestimate
the actual level of private investment. Official data are presented in the
table below:
Estimated Gross Fixed Investment in Industry
(LE Million; Current Prices)
Economy                     Mining and Manufacturing
Year           Public    Private       Public    Private    Share of Private (%)
1969/70         317.3      38.7          89.1        3.2               3.4
1970/71         324.3      37.2          89.7        3.0               3.2
1971/72         333.4      36.1         116.1        6.0               4.9
1973            427.1       38.6        120.0        6.0               5.0
1974            617.2      30.4         186.4        3.5                1.9
1975 /a        1096.3     107.6         239.4       25.0              10.4
/a   Provisional data.
Source: Ministry of Planning



-8-
As the data indicates, the public sector has been responsible for the lion's
share of investment, which more than doubled from 1973-75. Detailed statistics
on the structure of public sector investments are lacking but available data
indicate that forty percent of public investment between 1973-75 was allocated
to a single steel project with the major part of the balance going into other
heavy industries. Replacement, renovation and modernization investment
vitally needed for a large range of public enterprises has been neglected
leading to poor capacity utilization and productivity. The share of the
private sector in total industrial investment has been exceedingly small,
averaging about 4% per annum during 1969-1974. In 1975, following the more
liberal policies toward the private sector, private investment is estimated
to have increased to 10% of total industrial investment.
1.17      Investment licenses granted by GOFI 1/ provide information on the
investment plans of the private sector, by industry, region, size of projects,
employment, value of production, production costs, and net value added. The
table below summarizes GOFI's approvals for the period 1970-76:
Analysis of GOFI's Investment Approvals in Private Sector 1970-76
(Amounts in LE '000)
Average        Average
No. of     Investment /a                    Investment      Investment
Year     Projects      (Planned)        Employment    Per Project       Per Job
1970        314           5,000            5,635           15.9          0.887
1971        280           6,900            4,944           24.6          1.395
1972        350           8,600            6,308           24.6          1.363
1973        332          16,700           10,546           50.3          1.583
1974        358          19,100            8,589           53.6          2.224
1975        740          67,100           17,231           90.7          3.894
1976        693          94,773           20,655          136.8          4.588
/a   Includes working capital.
Source: GOFI
The period 1970-74 is one of low investment activity.  Between 1974 and 1976
the number of projects approved has more than doubled while planned invest-
ment increased five-fold. Engineering, textiles, chemicals and food process-
ing projects accounted for some 90% of the total number of proposed projects
and total planned investment. This reflects the favorable response of the
private sector to the Government's encouragement of private initiative and the
1/   GOFI's data make no distinction between projects undertaken by existing
enterprises for expansion or replacement of equipment and new enterprises.
It can be reasonably assumed, however, that the bulk of investment is
undertaken by existing enterprises.



-9-
easing up of foreign exchange and import restrictions. Average capital in-
tensity (including working capital) has been steadily rising from LE 2,224 in
1974 to LE 4,588 in 1976. In part, the increase in capital intensity reflects
the effect of the de facto devaluation of the Egyptian Pound (i.e. applica-
tion of the parallel market exchange rate instead of the official exchange
rate for import financing) and domestic and world inflation. Nevertheless,
this capital intensity for projects is still relatively low compared to other
developing countries.
1.18      In addition to domestic projects approved by GOFI, the "Authority
for the Investment of Arab and Foreign Capital and Free Zones" had approved
some 300 industrial projects involving a total investment of about LE 840
million by end-March 1977. While actual investment for these projects is
reported to be no more than LE 50 million so far, foreign investment is
expected to increase as a result of some positive amendments to the foreign
investment Law 43/1974 that were adopted by Law 32 in June 1977. An accele-
rated pace of domestic and private investment can therefore be expected in the
coming years provided sufficient investment resources are made available in
local currency and in foreign exchange.
II. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
A. Financial Institutions
2.01      Institutional financing for industry in Egypt is provided almost
entirely by the banking sector. Of the non-banking institutions, only insur-
ance companies have shown recently some interest in providing long-term fi-
nancing to a few large industrial projects. The two stock exchanges in Egypt,
one in Cairo and one in Alexandria, have not been contributing to the mobil-
ization of industrial finance. No new securities have been issued for the
last 20 years. The exchanges have some 43 listed securities with a total
market value of about LE 160 million of which bonds represent 60% (mainly four
Government issues) and shares 40% (mainly issues of "mixed" public/private
sector companies). The annual turnover volume is about LE 10 million in Cairo
and LE 3-4 million in Alexandria.
2.02      The banking sector continues to be dominated by the four public sec-
tor commercial banks--Misr Bank, Banque du Caire, National Bank and Bank of
Alexandria (BOA). The sector specialization of each of these banks was re-
moved in 1975 with the promulgation of the new banking law (Law 120); however,
other than some short-term financing, BOA continued for a while to be almost
the sole source of institutional finance for industry; also, two IDA credits
were BOA's only source of foreign exchange for this purpose (see Chapter III).
BOA's role of providing term loans to industry, particularly the private sec-
tor, was taken over by the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) upon its estab-
lishment in August 1976 (Chapter IV).



- 10 -
2.03      The Government's "open door policy" in recent years has led to the
establishment of a large number of new financial institutions (joint venture
banks, foreign bank branches, offshore institutions), most of which are only
gradually initiating operations. 1/ Notable amongst these is the Misr Iran
Development Bank (MIDB), a joint venture between Iran and Egypt established in
1975. Its main objective is to promote and finance joint venture projects in
industry and other sectors. It can provide only foreign exchange financing
and is expected to depend on DIB and others to provide long-term local cur-
rency financing. Significant interest in development banking has also been
shown by two joint venture banks, namely, Chase National and Cairo Barclays;
the latter can deal only in foreign currency. Retail banking, however pro-
vides the bread and butter for all the new active institutions except MIDB.
2.04      In 1976, IFC conducted a limited survey of the Egyptian financial
sector--legal framework, institutions, instruments, etc.--with the objective
X    of recommending to the Government, at its request, ways and means to improve
domestic savings mobilization and credit allocation in Egypt, but this work
has not yet been concluded.  The Government is particularly interested in the
development of the securities market in Egypt and a governmental committee has
been set up to liaise with IFC and other expert institutions to develop and
recommend appropriate measures.  Recently, a study to provide training for
bankers was initiated by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) and is being under-
taken by consultants with UNDP financing and the Bank as the executing agent.
B.Financing o.iblic Sector and Private Sector Industrial Investment
Public sector industrial investments continue to be financed pri-
marily from the national budget and, to a limited extent, from internally
generated funds. The commercial banks generally provide only working capital
financing, although some investments in fixed assets are also financed with
short-term loans that are rolled over. DIB (and previously BOA) provides some
long-term financing for public sector projects but this is small in comparison
to total investments and is generally for small reconstruction and expansion
projects. When DIB does finance larger projects, this constitutes only a
small portion of the total financing, supplementing insufficient budgetary
allocations and internally generated funds.
2.06      For private sector investments, the main source of external long-
term investment funds is DIB (and previously BOA), for both local currency and
foreign exchange. By mid-1977 DIB's portfolio of loans and equity investments
1/   At the last count 69 banks had a presence in Cairo--33 local and joint-
venture banks, 25 representative offices, and 11 finance and investment
houses.



- 11 -
(mostly term loans) amounted to LE 24 million and was growing rapidly. MIDB
is an additional source of foreign exchange financing for projects that can
generate, and thus repay in, foreign exchange. MIDB's financial assistance
from its incorporation in May 1975 through January 1977 amounted to about
$21 million consisting of 12 term loans and eight equity investments (approved
but not all committed), mostly for joint venture projects. Limited term
lending for investment projects has also been undertaken by Chase National and
Cairo Barclays. By mid-1977 Chase National had a loan portfolio of about $25
million equivalent of which about $6.5 million was in term loans, mostly in
foreign exchange (for industry and other sectors). Cairo Barclays is reported
to have a total loan portfolio of around $8 million but the portion for term
loans is not known. Investment (long-term) financing by MIDB and, to some
extent, by Cairo Barclays, is expected to intensify but Chase National proposes
to slow down for its own reasons. Among the local commercial banks only Misr
Bank plans to finance a few large industrial investments (particularly in
textiles) which it is promoting, in an effort to regain a semblance of its
pre-nationalization status (before the sixties) as an important industrial
financier and holding company. It also finances agroindustrial projects and
is a recipient of a Bank loan (1276-EGT) for that and other purposes. Other
financial institutions have shown some interest in consortium financing (with
DIB, MIDB or other institutions) of large industrial and tourism projects;
these institutions include insurance companies and the local, joint venture
and off-shore banks. A few investments have been financed in this manner but
details are not available. Aggregate data quantifying the sources of indus-
trial investment financing (self-financing and external financing) are not
compiled in Egypt.
2.07      All the commercial banks provide short-term financing for working
capital and for investment purposes. Short-term loans are sometimes rolled
over making them disguised term loans. Many private sector businessmen use
the local resources so obtained or their own local resources for purchasing
foreign exchange in the "parallel market" or purchasing items imported under
the "own exchange" scheme which allows Egyptian citizens earning foreign
exchange abroad to import capital or consumer goods. This practice appears to
be on the increase since the "own exchange" scheme allows private entrepreneurs
to purchase imported goods currently at a premium of only about 5% over the
parallel market exchange rate. The cost of the foreign exchange resources so
obtained would compare favorably with the on-lending terms to sub-borrowers of
DIB under the proposed loan (para 2.14) because of the relatively lower costs
on local currency loans charged by banks (para 2.12). This competition for
DIB's foreign exchange lending from the commercial banks and the parallel and
free exchange markets appears acute at present but may not be sustained over
time for the following reasons:
(a) The competition depends on the availability of local currency
term loans or disguised term loans from the commercial banks.
Term loans are rarely offered, while disguised term lending is
not sound business practice and, therefore, CBE would try to
restrict this.
(b) The competition also depends on the availability of foreign
exchange in the parallel and free exchange markets. Although



- 12 -
the foreign exchange inflow into these markets has increased
rapidly and is estimated at about $1 billion in 1977, most of
it is directed for purposes other than private imports of
capital goods and, given the balance of payments problems
facing Egypt, it is unlikely that the Government would allow
the private sector uncontrolled access to foreign exchange
funds in large amounts over a prolonged period of time. Stiff
competition for DIB in the short-term, however, cannot be ruled
out and is considered an acceptable risk in projecting DIB's
business for the proposed Bank financing.
SSI Financing
2.08      A "small loans scheme" to cater to the needs of the artisans was
instituted by the commercial banks in 1965 at the behest of the Government,
whereby loans up to LE 2,000 (including working capital) and up to 3 years
maturity were to be offered to small enterprises at the normal costs applic-
able to other loans. No special incentive was offered to the banks for such
lending, the scheme was a failure as bank branch managers perceived such loans
as having low profits and high risk. Only the National Bank has kept up some
interest in SSI lending and it provides mainly short-term and occasionally
medium-term local currency loans. At the end of 1975, its outstanding loans
to SSI amounted to around LE 0.5 million (compared with a total portfolio of
LE 1.4 billion) involving some 3,500 clients. 1/ Of the loans extended 69%
are in lower Egypt and Canal Zone, 20% in Upper Egypt, and 11% in Cairo and
Alexandria.
2.09      The main financier of SSI, as also of private industrial investment
in general, is DIB. During 1977, its medium- and long-term loans (approved)
to SSI amounted to LE 5.4 million for 446 projects, mostly in the Cairo and
Alexandria areas where a large majority of Egyptian SSI are centered. DIB's
financing of SSI is discussed in para. 4.32.
2.10      The third institution catering to SSI is the Nasser Social Bank,
which is a public sector organization administering various social funds and
programs. Only a small portion of its financing is for productive purposes.
Its financing of SSI has been limited to bulk purchasing from abroad and
resale on an installment basis of machinery and equipment (confined so far to
one operation involving lathes), taxis and tourist buses. A small profit mar-
gin is added to the resale price. It also finances raw material requirements
of SSI through their cooperative organizations.--The amount of such financing
could not be obtained by the appraisal mission, but is reported to be small in
comparison to DIB's.
2.11      For Bank financing of SSI, DIB is the most appropriate institution
at present based on the organization, policies and procedures of the existing
institutions. Its weakness lies in the fact that it does not have branch
offices outside of Cairo and Alexandria. However, it does plan to open new
1/   These are small loans but it could not be confirmed that the clients are
all small enterprises; some medium size enterprises may well be included.



- 13 -
branches to promote regional development provided it sees sufficient business
for those branches. New branches in Mohala-el Kubra (an industrial town and
textile center) and Port Said or Suez (canal zone) are expected to be opened
in the not too distant future. Meanwhile DIB uses the branch offices of BOA
as correspondent bank where necessary. While the National Bank and other
commercial banks have the needed branch network for regionally diversified SSI
lending, they do not follow satisfactory project appraisal procedures in their
lending, nor do they have any motivation to extend SSI loans considering the
higher cost and risk of such lending. SSI lending under the proposed project
will therefore be channelled through DIB. Should DIB fail to meet the needs
of this target group in Cairo, Alexandria or in other regions, as appropriate,
lending through other existing financial institutions--particularly commercial
banks, suitably strengthened in procedures--or new institutions(s) should be
explored for future Bank projects. Also, incentive schemes for institutions
to promote SSI lending will be explored, but for the current operation these
are not considered necessary as DIB plans to continue and further expand SSI
lending under its existing set-up.
C. Cost of Capital in Egypt
2.12      Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all
financial institutions are regulated by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). The
current rates, effective since March 1, 1977, are: up to 6% for demand and
savings deposits and 7% for investment certificates issued by the Ministry of
Finance (all tax free), and; 8-9% for both short- and long-term loans. Addi-
tional charges on loans by way of commissions and fees are also regulated and
rarely increase the annual costs by more than a percentage point or so except
in cases requiring warehousing facilities for goods held as collateral. When
compared with the inflationary experience and expectations in Egypt, the lend-
ing rates imply a negative or at best (by Government estimates) a very low
real cost to borrowers. 1/ The issue of raising interest rates for greater
domestic resource mobilization and for more efficient allocation of resources
forms a part of the ongoing dialogue between Bank-IMF and the Government on
economic reform. The CBE has already taken some corrective action by raising
the interest rates generally by 2 percentage points over the last two years.
2.13      Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by the
CBE and reflect the cost of those resources. Commercial banks (mainly the
joint ventures) have been making foreign exchange loans at an interest rate
tied to LIBOR, but such loans have been few and generally short-term. MIDB
charges an interest rate of 10.5% p.a. (plus a commitment charge) on its loans
which are repayable in foreign currency. Only DIB, and earlier BOA, has made
foreign exchange available to industrial investors through loans repayable
in local currency; the sources of this foreign exchange have been two IDA
1/   Extensive price controls make it difficult to measure precisely the rate
of inflation in Egypt. Unofficial estimates place the average price
increase around 15-20 percent p.a. for the recent past. Over the coming
five years the inflation rate is expected to ebb down to about 10 percent
p.a.



- 14 -
credits (para 3.01) and a recent loan of US$32 million from USAID to DIB. The
first IDA credit carried an onlending interest rate to sub-borrowers (final
beneficiaries) of 9-1/2% with the Government assuming the foreign exchange
risk. Under the second IDA credit the foreign exchange risk is passed on to
the subborrower while the onlending interest rate has been 1.0% by BOA and 11%
by DIB. Both credits were onlent to sub-borrowers (and are to be repaid by
them) at the official exchange rate, which grossly overvalues the local cur-
rency, therefore implying a large subsidy to sub-borrowers. The USAID loan
carries the same onlending terms as those for the second IDA credit. BOA and
DIB's practice requiring the sub-borrowers to maintain interest-free deposits
(generally 10-20% of the loan amount) as compensating balances against IDA
sub-loans partially offset the exchange rate subsidy (by increasing the effec-
tive cost of funds to the sub-borrowers). DIB is likely to eliminate the
requirement for compensating balances under the proposed Bank loan so as not
to price the Bank funds uncompetitively high. For the same reason it will
keep for itse'lf a minimum spread of 2.5% that is required to cover its admin-
istrative costs and bad debt provisions (see paras 5.10-5.11).
2.14      The proposed Bank loan will be onlent to the sub-borrowers (and
repaid by them) at the parallel market exchange rate. This rate closely
approximates the free market exchange rate at present, and it is our under-
standing that it will be adjusted from time to time to reflect market forces.
With the foreign exchange risk (between the US dollar and the Egyptian pound)
on Bank funds passed on to the sub-borrowers (para 7.01), the proposed on-
lending rate of around 10% 1/ is a fair approximation of the current market
cost of long-term foreign exchange in the international capital markets.
There is thus little if any subsidy implied for the sub-borrowers.
III. PREVIOUS DFC CREDITS AND THEIR ECONOMIC IMPACT
3.01      IDA has extended two credits to BOA that were later transferred
to DIB. The Credits had the dual purpose of providing foreign exchange
financing for industrial projects in the private and public sectors, and for
developing the institutional capability in Egypt to appraise and supervise
projects requiring long-term financing. The first credit of $15 million
(Number 412-UAR, hereinafter referred to as IDA I) was approved by IDA in
December 1973, and the second credit of $25 million (Number 576-EGT, here-
inafter referred to as IDA II) was approved in July 1975.
3.02      Since BOA was essentially a commercial bank, a project unit named
Special Services to Private Industrial Sector (SSPIS) was created within BOA
in 1973 to handle IDA sub-projects and other industrial financing operations.
At that time, there was no specialized industrial development banking insti-
tution in Egypt, the old Industrial Bank of Egypt having been merged into BOA
in 1972. IDA's institution building efforts were directed at formation of
the SSPIS unit.
1/   Assuming that the current interest rate on Bank loans (7.45%) will
apply to the proposed loan, DIB's agreed minimum spread of 2.5%
will result in a minimum onlending rate of 9.95%.



- 15 -
3.03      The strengthening of SSPIS as a term lending window was somewhat
constrained by the commercial banking environment and bias within BOA although
BOA's institutional prestige and creditworthiness, its large local currency
resources and branch network, greatly enhanced industrial term lending activi-
ties. SSPIS performed well enough to justify a second credit in 1975. How-
ever, with the liberalization of economic policy and a major upsurge in indus-
trial investment demand the Government decided that SSPIS should be detached
to form the nucleus of a new development bank.
3.04      DIB was created by law in February 1975.  It was physically estab-
lished and commenced operations on August 1, 1976 when the offices, activities
and most of the staff and local currency portfolio of the SSPIS unit of BOA
were transferred to DIB. DIB was appraised by IDA in August 1976 and the
transfer from BOA to DIB of IDA I and IDA II--and in effect of the entire
foreign exchange portfolio and resources of SSPIS--was approved by IDA in
March 1977. IDA has provided substantial assistance to DIB in formulating
its organization structure, policies, procedures and operational and financial
plans. DIB's institutional characteristics and performance are discussed in
Chapter IV.
Commitments and Disbursements under IDA I and II
3.05      IDA I was fully committed by March 1976, one year behind appraisal
estimate, chiefly due to slow implementation of some sub-projects and their
subsequent cancellation and replacement by new ones; disbursements slowed down
as a result and the undisbursed amount of $1.7 million as of February 15, 1978
is expected to be drawn down by March 1979, 18 months behind the original
estimate. Commitments under IDA II, which became effective in February 1976
(five months behind schedule), were very slow during most of 1976 because of
the process of creating and staffing the new DIB and of transferring to it the
IDA credits. Following the establishment of DIB in August 1976 and the final-
ization of its organization and staffing, a major effort was undertaken in
late 1976 and early 1977 to process the backlog of pending projects. DIB's
management was motivated not only by the need to satisfy impatient customers
but more importantly by the desire to show a good performance as a new bank.
Through special efforts by DIB staff, a large number of projects have been
appraised. As of February 15, 1978, total commitments under IDA II had
reached $23.9 million and DIB has already appraised projects to commit the
balance of the credit by end-March 1978, nine months behind the original
target date. Disbursements also have been accelerating after a slow start and
amounted to $12.8 million as of February 15, 1978. The credit is expected to
be fully disbursed by March 31, 1980 instead of the original (appraisal)
target of October 31, 1979.



- 16 -
Economic Impact of IDA Financed Sub-projects 1/
3.06      The sub-projects financed under IDA I and II as of July 30, 1977
require an estimated LE 48 million in total investment (including working
capital for private projects) of which IDA funds committed amount to around
LE 14 million ($36 million). Additional jobs expected to be generated by
these sub-projects are reported at a little over 4,000, but, because of under-
reporting by employers (to lower their social security payments), DIB esti-
mates actual employment to be about 5,000. Public sector projects accounted
for 52% of the estimated investment but only a third of the jobs generated,
indicating a higher capital intensity than for private sector projects.
Also, the average investment per project in the public sector is LE 2.3
million compared to only LE 207,000 in the private sector. This is to be
expected since public sector enterprises are concentrated in basic and
capital intensive industries.
3.07      A large number of expansion and replacement projects is included
among IDA financed operations (90 out of a total of 122 projects). This
reflects the state of Egyptian industries, which has been in great need of
replacement and modernization of equipment with little job creation effect.
Among sub-projects financed under IDA I in the private sector, if a large
venture in the free zone is excluded, the cost per job created drops from
around LE 9,000 (US$17,500) to LE 6,000 (US$11,300). For sub-projects fi-
nanced so far under IDA II, the investment cost per job figures are lower
reflecting a larger number of labor intensive SSI projects. 57 private sector
projects financed under the "free limit" for IDA II had an average investment
cost of LE 89,000 (US$177,400) and were expected to generate 972 jobs at an
average cost per job of LE 5,200 (US$10,400). Using DIB estimates instead
of the lower employment figures declared by enterprises would reduce the
cost-per-job estimates by about 20%. The average cost per job of projects
financed in the public sector under IDA I and II is estimated at almost twice
that in the private sector.
3.08      Sub-projects financed with IDA funds are expected to yield reason-
able financial and economic returns and the results to date have been satis-
factory. Estimated economic rates of return range from 10% to 27% and finan-
cial rates of return range from 12% to 32%. The financial returns tend to be
higher than economic returns due partly to the undervaluation of capital in-
puts using the official rate of exchange. For this reason a minimum financial
rate of return of 15% was set as a requirement for sub-projects financed under
IDA II while a 10% to 12% rate might have been considered sufficient if a free
market rate of exchange had been applicable.
3.09      The distribution of IDA financed sub-projects by geographic region
and industrial sub-sector has been similar to that of DIB's overall lending
operations (discussed in para. 4.31) and in line with the industrial priori-
ties and realities prevailing at the time of commitment of funds.
1/   The conversion of IDA funds into Egyptian currency is calculated at the
official exchange rate of LE 0.4 to the dollar which is applicable to
sub-loans under IDA I and IDA II. The dollar equivalent of local costs
is however calculated at the current parallel market rate of LE 0.7 to
the dollar.



- 17 -
34I0      Fi,7m a sample of 12 of the 17 sub-projects' exceeding the free limit
financLig under IDA I and on which completion data are available, only three
had cost overruns amounting to 10% each with delays of five to six months. In
addition oie private sector project had about 60% cost overrun due to a design
change by the promoter. This performance of sub-projects, considering the
numerous administrative difficulties faced by promoters in Egypt in implement-
ing projects, is very satisfactory. Furthermore, in the process of appraising
and supervising these projects DIB performs an indirect technical assistance
function that is of service to the clients. In financing public sector proj-
ects, DIB's modest contribution often as a bridge gap financier made it
possible to accelerate the realization of economically and financially sound
projects which would otherwise have been delayed and might have incurred
substantial cost overruns.
IV. THE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
A. Establishment, Ownership and Control
4.01      DIB was established by Ministerial Decree 65 of February 17, 1975,
which also sets forth its articles of establishment. DIB formally commenced
operations on August 1, 1976 with BOA's SSPIS unit as its nucleus. DIB's
authorized share capital of LE 10 million is fully paid-in. The Ministry of
Finance is the sole shareholder but its interest is administered by CBE. Con-
version of DIB into a joint-venture bank in partnership with IFC and some
foreign institutions was under active consideration during 1977 but this
idea has now been dropped by the Government.
4.02      Under Egyptian law, CBE's supervisory powers over banks are much
wider thar those normally given to a central bank. The policy orientation and
financial plans of all public sector banks, including DIB, are controlled by
CBE. DIB's annual budgets, salary structure, financial statements and appro-
priations from income require CBE's approval.
B. Organization
4.03      DTB operates through its head office in Cairo and two branch offices
in Cairo and Alexandria. Branches in Mohala-el-Kubra and the Canal zone are
expected tc be opened in the near future. Branches in other parts of the
courtry will be opened as and when supported by actual or potential business
in those areas; meanwhile, branch offices of BOA are being used as corres-
pondent bank. The branches of DIB have the main responsibility for customer
relations, disbursement and repayment of loans and maintaining customer depo-
sits and accounts. The basic functions of project appraisal, supervision,
mobilization and management of resources, planning and budgeting, are the
responsibility of the head office staff. However, the responsibility for



- 18 -
initial appraisal work (data gathering, credit check, and the preparation of
draft appraisal reports) for short-term and SSI term loans has been delegated
to the branches.
4.04      Functional departments at the head office are grouped into eleven
"General Departments" that are headed by Managers and supervised by three
General Managers. As an exception, the General Department for Legal Affairs
is supervised directly by the Vice Chairman. Long-term operations and plan-
ning, short-term and SSI operations, and finance and administration, are the
main functional groups under the charge of the three General Managers. In-
cluded in the first group are also the General Department for Investment and
Promotion and the General Department for Economic Affairs which have commenced
activity only recently and are yet to be properly staffed.
C. Board of Directors
4.05      The number of directors of public sector banks is fixed by law at
seven members, to include five from within the bank (Law 120 of 1975). The
Board members of DIB were appointed by a Ministerial decree (dated June 7,
1976) and include the five senior-most managers of DIB--the Chairman, Vice
Chairman, and the three General Managers--and two external directors: an
industrial economist and professor at the University of Alexandria and an
advisor in the Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation.
4.06      The above composition of the Board limits the experience and
expertise it can draw from suitable external directors. There are at present
no plans to change the legal set-up--which had only been approved in 1975 when
for the first time outside members were introduced to the Board. The Govern-
ment and the Central Bank recognize that in the case of DIB there is a special
need to nominate to its Board candidates that are qualified and experienced to
cope with DIB's role as the primary institution for private industrial lend-
ing. The most recent vacancy in the Board had therefore been filled with a
qualified former staff member of the Central Bank. Moreover, the Government
has confirmed its intention to continue filling future vacancies in DIB's
Board with persons of high qualifications and suitable professional and
business experience and to keep the Bank informed of possible changes in the
law regarding the composition of the boards of directors of public sector
banks. Moreover, as part of its current efforts to strengthen its Board
of Directors, DIB will establish by about October 1978 an external Advisory
Committee to its Board. The Government has agreed to take all necessary
steps on its part to assist DIB in establishing the committee. The committee
will be composed of three to five experts in finance and industrial develop-
ment. Within one year of the establishment of said committee, DIB and CBE
will review its effectiveness with the view to determine whether additional
or different measures are required for DIB's Board to meet its expanding
activities in the promotion and financing of industrial development in Egypt.
DIB will share the findings of this review with the Bank.
4.07      The Board determines and implements the bank's organizational struc-
ture, policies and modus operandi within the framework and regulations set and



- 19 -
supervised by the CBE (para. 4.02). It approves all foreign currency loans
above LE 100,000 and local currency loans above LE 250,000 at its meetings
held once a month, or more often as necessary. Approval authority for lower
amounts has been delegated by the Board to senior managers of the bank.
D. Management and Staff
4.08      DIB's senior and middle management remains essentially the same as
that of SSPIS/BOA's, and so is well known to the Bank. In the next few years,
however, DIB will be expected to gradually develop into a more dynamic institu-
tion than so far, capable of actively promoting private industry and of being
its spokesman with the Government on policy formulation. For this to become
possible, further strengthening of the management team will be necessary.
4.09      During 1978, some vacancies are expected to arise in senior manage-
ment positions, and it is important that they be filled by highly qualified
and experienced persons. The importance of this matter is appreciated by DIB's
Chairman, CBE and the Government. DIB will inform the Bank of the qualifi-
cations and experience of persons nominated to general manager positions.
Management support through advisers has also been agreed (para 4.12) for
operational and financial planning, policy development and implementation, and
for further strengthening of the bank's management information system, project
appraisal and supervision procedures.
4.10      As of end-1977, DIB had a total staff of 260 including 181 pro-
fessionals and administrative assistants, most of whom were taken from SSPIS.
Of these about half are in the head office and half in the two branches.
There is a surplus of administrative and non-professional staff such as
messengers, security guards, etc., but DIB has been short of professional
operational staff for project appraisal and supervision. A recruitment drive
for professional staff commenced at the end of 1977 and has been fairly
successful.
4.11      DIB's program to strengthen its operational staff in number and in
quality is satisfactory and forms a part of its implementation strategy for
its current and future operations. A Strategy Statement has been submitted by
DIB and agreed to by the Bank, and DIB will keep the Bank currently informed
of any major changes in this Strategy Statement. The upgrading of salaries of
public sector banks that went into force in January 1978 is helping DIB to
attract well qualified and experienced additional staff. DIB's staff training
program is also satisfactory and has as its main element an industrial proj-
ects course to be held in Cairo during 1978 and financed from USAID grant
funds. Practical training in development banks and other suitable institu-
tions outside Egypt is also envisaged for some staff from time to time;
financing for this is available from the training and technical assistance
component under IDA II and additional financing is included in the proposed
loan.



- 20 -
4.12      DIB has agreed to employ by about October 1978 two advisers, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, both for up to two
years. The more important of these being the management adviser--whose terms
of reference have already been agreed to by DIB--and the other a technical
adviser for project appraisal and supervision. Both advisers could be financed
under a USAID grant for training and technical assistance to DIB should the
persons selected be US nationals. The search for suitable persons as advisors
is underway by the Bank in coordination with USAID. The foreign exchange costs
of the two advisers and staff training for DIB will be permitted financing
under the proposed Bank loan, and an amount of up to US$300,000 is included
for this purpose.
4.13      Most of the previous staff training and technical assistance for
SSPIS and DIB has been provided by EDI or IDA under Credits 412 and 576-EGT.
Four senior staff and managers of DIB have attended EDI courses in industrial
projects or development banking while one has also received training at another
DFC. An adviser was attached to SSPIS for 6 months at end-1974 and another
was attached to DIB at end-1976 for four months. Both advisers were made only
limited use of by SSPIS and DIB management for strengthening project appraisal
and supervision procedures. The terms of reference (TOR) of the proposed
advisers will therefore be carefully drawn and agreed to by DIB's management
(as has been done for the proposed management adviser) and implementation of
those TOR will be closely followed by the Bank. Also, greater conviction on
the part of DIB's management now than before as to the need for the proposed
advisers is likely to lead to better utilization of the advisers.
E. Functions and Policies
4.14      DIB's objectives and functions were essentially inherited from SSPIS.
The primary function, as stated in DIB's Policy Statement, is to promote and
finance productive industrial enterprises 1/ mainly in the private sector, in-
cluding cooperatives, artisans and other SSI. Public sector industrial enter-
prises are also eligible for financing, although their much larger financing
requirements are expected to continue to be met through Government budgetary
allocations.
4.15      DIB's assistance to the public sector is limited to financing of
small- and medium-size reconstruction and expansion projects or to marginal
financing of larger projects, supplementing budgetary allocations and self-
financing in order to expedite project implementation. Such a limited objec-
tive towards the public sector is appropriate since DIB has neither the fi-
nancial resources nor the institutional strength to assume a bigger role; in
time, as the institution strengthens, it may be in a position to effect a
greater impact in shaping and financing public sector industries. However,
1/   Industrial enterprises are meant to include those in processing and
manufacturing, agro-industries, and tourism (essentially hotels and
tourist transportation).



- 21 -
at this point there is no indication from the Government that it wants DIB to
further extend its assistance to public sector industries, and any such objec-
tive would need to be thoroughly planned and justified. DIB's financing of
public sector projects, although limited, often helps expedite sound projects
which fill important productive linkages in the economy. Through these opera-
tions DIB also spreads the use of proper appraisal techniques to the sector.
4.16      Under IDA II, financing of public sector projects is limited in
aggregate to a maximum of 35% of the total credit compared to 50% under IDA I.
The USAID loan, the only other foreign exchange resource available to DIB at
present, carries the same allocation as IDA II. Allocation of funds for
public sector projects under the proposed Bank loan will be restricted to a
maximum 25%; furthermore, such projects would have to meet certain criteria to
be eligible for this financing (see para. 6.05).
4.17      DIB provides financing in the form of medium- and long-term loans
(local and foreign currency) and equity participations. Medium-term hire-
purchase loans form an important part of its financing of SSI. To promote SSI
investment DIB plans to supplement its direct financing of SSI by indirect
financing through cooperative and trading companies catering to them. DIB
also provides working capital facilities and issues guarantees but mainly as
support activities for its long-term financing business. DIB's equity invest-
ments would be directed mainly to promote projects and are not expected to
form a significant part of its operations in the next couple of years. For
large projects, both in the private and public sector, DIB hopes to arrange
and participate in consortium financing. DIB has already agreed in principle
to cofinance projects with MIDB.
4.18      In addition to its financing function, DIB is expected to provide
technical assistance, especially to artisans, small workshop owners and other
SSI. The Governor of CBE as well as other Government officials put particular
emphasis on this and on the project promotion role of DIB (e.g. helping create
forward and backward linkage industries to the existing private and public
sector industries). While DIB can provide some technical assistance to SSI in
project formulation and in accounting through its project appraisals, it does
not have the institutional strength at present to provide even such limited
assistance on a large scale. A program of technical assistance and extension
services for SSI is included under the proposed project through other institu-
tions (paras. 6.09-6.14). A role for DIB in project promotion is appropriate
but this can only be a medium-term objective since it would take at least a
year or two for DIB to acquire sufficient staff and expertise to carry such
activity in addition to its existing operations.
4.19      The main features of DIB's financial policy are as follows:
(a) DIB's maximum debt/equity ratio shall be 6:1, with debt defined
to consist of short-term and long-term debt, uncovered guarantees,
and deposits excluding compensating balances held by DIB as cash
cover against loans;



- 22 -
(b) DIB's total financial exposure in loans, guarantees of any kind
and equity participation (all on a commitment basis) in any single
company shall normally be limited to 20% of DIB's equity;
(c) DIB will not take an equity participation in any company in
excess of 25% of the company's equity, and DIB's total equity
participations shall not exceed its own equity.
(d) DIB will generally limit its financing to enterprises with a debt/
equity ratio not exceeding 2:1. This limit may be exceeded for
hire-purchase operations, where up to 80% of the project cost may
be financed, and for SSI projects depending on their merit. 1/
These financial covenants included in DIB's Policy Statement are considered to
be satisfactory. As an existing IDA borrower, DIB has agreed to seek prior
approval of IDA to any changes in its Policy Statement, and this requirement
has been confirmed under the proposed loan. The interest rates and other
charges on DIB loans fall within the regime set by CBE and are discussed in
paras. 2.12-2.14.
F. Procedures
Appraisal
4.20      The appraisal functions are performed within two general departments.
The appraisal of short-term loans, hire-purchase loans and local currency term
loans to SSI is undertaken by the General Department for Credit Facilities
(GDFC), while other (medium and long-term) local and all foreign currency
loans are handled by the General Department for Term Lending (GDTL). The
responsibility for all SSI loans (local and foreign) is now being delegated
to a separate division in the GDFC. Most of the appraisal ground work for
short-term and SSI loans is undertaken at the branch level. The head office
departments and the branches have insufficient appraisal staff to handle
satisfactorily the incrased volume of business being undertaken by DIB.
Plans to increase the staff to more appropriate levels, as discussed and
agreed to between DIB and the appraisal mission and included in DIB's Strategy
Statement (para. 4.11), are being implemented.
4.21      The appraisal of SSI projects by the GDFC are over-simplified.
Paucity of reliable financial records from SSI make the appraisal task dif-
ficult but the financial and economic analysis could well be improved. Such
improvements were discussed by the appraisal mission and are being implemented
by DIB. Training of staff as well as an interchange of staff with the better
qualified staff in the GDTL have also been initiated. Previous training
1/ SSI are defined by DIB as enterprises whose fixed assets excluding land
and building do not exceed LE 150,000 (around $215,000).



- 23 -
efforts have been centered mostly on the term lending department, GDTL, whose
staff has progressively acquired the techniques of project appraisal with
generally satisfactory results. Staff composition has been fairly stable and
some expertise has been built up. Technical analysis is the weakest link in
project appraisals. Although the engineering staff is being strengthened,
DIB will contir_.e for a while to employ external technical consultants for
appraising complex or large projects. The quality of financial and economic
analyses of projects studied by GDTL has steadily improved, but not all staff
have mastered the techniques. Strengthening of project appraisals and super-
vision through training is ongoing and technical assistance funds for this
purpose are available to DIB (para. 4.12).
4.22      DIB's foreign currency loan appraisal and decision-making procedures
from the time loan applications are made to signature of the contract, tend to
be lengthy. The long process is mostly unavoidable and is due largely to fac-
tors outside DIB's control, e.g. failure of most borrowers to promptly supply
necessary information and documentation, and the long mortgage validation
process. In order to avoid increasing customer complaints and to gain some
time savings, new arrangements to streamline and standardize the procedures
were discussed and agreed between DIB and the appraisal mission and are being
implemented. They involve in particular a preliminary screening of applications
and informing the clients of the results, and shifting some conditions of com-
mitment, such as mortgage validation, to disbursement. Preliminary screening
of projects has become very important because the number of project applications
accumulated with DIB is far greater than it can handle over a reasonable
period of time and priorities need to be assigned to allocate scarce manpower
and, possibly, resources.
Supervision
4.23      Supervision of all loans is undertaken by the General Department for
Follow-Up. DIB's policy is to have projects visited every three months while
they are under construction and about once a year thereafter. However the
department lacks the staff to fully implement this policy and follow up on the
approximately 1,100 clients at present, of whom about 50 have projects under
construction. Outside consultants are relied upon to assist on the engineer-
ing aspects of important cases as for appraisals.
4.24      Follow-up work tends to concentrate more on the inspection of colla-
teral and less on overall financial and managerial performance. Although the
staff collects up to date and useful data on clients and projects under con-
struction, they lack the expertise to fully analyze the data. This needs to
be corrected. Also, as agreed with the appraisal mission, DIB plans to com-
pile and analyze in future aggregate statistics on projects, namely: time
and cost over-runs during construction, actual versus appraisal estimates of
operational results, etc. In order to achieve these objectives, DIB is
recruiting qualified financial analysts, and will restructure both supervision
and appraisal reports with a view to better integrating the two processes.



- 24 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.25      DIB ensures through its project appraisals that procurement proce-
dures for all projects follow competitive bidding or shopping which conform to
Bank/IDA requirements for DFC projects. To that effect its borrowers normally
submit to DIB at least three pro-forma invoices from different suppliers.
Disbursements are effected mainly through DIB's two branch offices in Cairo
and Alexandria; in other regions, the branch offices of BOA are used as cor-
respondent banks. The disbursement procedures are satisfactory and well
monitored.
Management Information System
4.26      The management information system which DIB inherited from SSPIS at
the time of its creation was less than satisfactory for the normal needs of a
development bank. The shortcomings of that information system were partly a
result of SSPIS being a department of a commercial bank. IDA/Bank missions to
DIB have paid particular attention to this aspect and some improvements have
been achieved. Operational and finaiicial data are now compiled monthly, thus
giving management a clearer picture of DIB's work and performance. There are
still some shortcomings stemming from inadequate records of past operations,
and the lack of an analytical ability to provide management with a summary
interpretation of the available data. These shortcomings are expected to be
addressed by the proposed management adviser (para 4.12).
G. Operations
4.27      DIB's operations consist largely of loans and some guarantees for
i.s clients. Its policy statement allows it to make equity investments, but,
at present, excluding a large investment of LE 1 million in a joint venture
cjmmercial bank with Bank of America (likely to be paid-in over a four year
Feriod) such investments (3 for LE 21,360) are insignificant. In the follow-
.ng analysis of loan operations references to the period preceeding August
1976 apply to BOA/SSPIS which for all practical purposes can be assimilated to
j-3. Details of loan approvals, commitments and disbursements in 1975, 1976
and 1977 are given in Table 1 at the end of this chapter.
4.28      DIB's operations were dominated by short-term lending activities
until end-1976, five months after its separation from BOA and establishment as
a development bank. Such loans consist mainly of export financing and provi-
sion of working capital to private industrial enterprises. While the average
short-term loan is small, around LE 52,000, it is not uncommon for DIB to
grant up to LE 1 million for a major export contract. Short-term loans
declined from 88% of total approvals (of LE 21 million) in 1975, to 28% (of
LE 36.4 million) in 1977, as term lending activities picked up and DIB de-
emphasized commercial activities. The decline of short-term approvals also
stemmed from lower demand from private enterprises following loss of some
export business with bilateral trade partners of Egypt.



- 25 -
4.29      Guarantee operations of DIB are often short-term and linked to
export or public procurement contracts. Guarantees outstanding amounted to
LE 893,000 at December 31, 1977; cash cover deposits on these guarantees were
LE 410,000 making them a safe and lucrative operation since a 1% commission
is paid to DIB on the uncovered portions.
4.30      Medium- and long-term loan approvals have substantially grown in
1977 reaching LE 26.2 million compared to a total of LE 13.1 million for 1975
and 1976 combined. It should be noted that term lending business was con-
strained in 1975 due to the lack of foreign exchange resources (when most of
IDA I was committed and IDA II had not become effective) and in most of 1976
due to the diversion of management and staff effort to establish DIB. The
average term loan approved more than doubled from LE 21,500 in 1975 to LE
50,500 in 1977 reflecting both inflationary pressures and the increased size
of projects as evidenced by GOFI approvals (para 1.17). On the average,
medium-term loans (5 years or less) account for about 80% in number but only
for about one third of the amount of term loan approvals. DIB's term loan
approvals tend to be skewed toward a few large size loans of longer duration
(up to 12 years), mainly in foreign currency and in the public or joint
venture sector.
4.31      About 87% of DIB's total loans have been granted to borrowers in the
Cairo (72%) and Alexandria (15%) areas where most of Egypt's small-and medium-
scale industries are concentrated. The remaining borrowers are, mainly from
Lower and Upper Egypt. The bulk of DIB's financing through 1977 went to the
private manufacturing sector; financing of the public industrial sector was
virtually all in foreign exchange (i.e. up to 50% of IDA I and 35% of IDA II
as was agreed with IDA). The sectoral distribution of DIB's loan approvals
generally reflects the concentration of private manufacturing as well as the
changing patterns in investment demand. In 1975, 78% of approvals benefitted
four subsectors: leather products (34%); textiles and garments (21%); engineer-
ing (15%); and food processing (8%). In 1976, reflecting a growing reconstruc-
tion effort, 14.5% of approvals were in building materials industries compared
to 1% in 1975; while leather products, textiles and food continued to dominate.
In 1977, a major drop of approvals was recorded in the leather industry due tb
the aforementioned loss of bilateral trade, while tourism approvals (mostly in
local currency) jumped to 22% leading engineering and textiles (16% each),
food (15%) and building materials (17%). In the past there has always been
a pent-up investment demand in private tourist hotels which, although big
generators of foreign exchange, have been denied investment funds particularly
in foreign currency. As a result private hotels are even more dilapidated
than some manufacturing industries. Increased investment in tourism reflects
a new Government policy to renew and expand tourist accommodation facilities
for which there exists a substantial and growing demand.
SSI Loan Approvals
4.32      Data on SSI financing were not systematically compiled by DIB prior
to 1977; however the size distribution of both short- and medium- to long-term
loan approvals shows that loans of less than LE 50,000 accounted on the average



- 26 -
for 77% and 30% of approvals in number and amounts, respectively for 1975-76.
These data suggest a relatively important share of SSI financing in DIB's
operations. During 1977, the asset size distribution of term loan borrowers
shows that enterprises with fixed assets less than LE 170,000 ($250,000),
which is close to DIB's definition of SSI, received 446 of the total 519 term
loans approved, amounting to LE 5.4 million, or about 20% of total term loans
in amount.
H. Resource Position
4.33      DIB's resource position as of June 30, 1977, is summarized below:
Amounts in LE '000
Local        Foreign
Currency      Currency
Resources:
Equity                                                      10,131           -
Bonds                                                        3,500           -
CBE Credit                                                  27,000           -
Deposits                                                     3,484           -
IDA I and IDA II                                               -          15,686
USAID                                                          -          12,550
44,115        28,236
Applications:
Loans and Equity Portfolio                                  17,453         6,478
Net Fixed Assets                                                 11          -
Undisbursed Resources                                         26,651        21,758
Less:  Undisbursed Commitments                               5,713         8,164
Uncommitted Resources                                         20,938        13,594
4.34      Total resources amounted to LE 72.4 million of which LE 15.7 million
($40 million) in IDA funds and LE 12.5 million ($32 million) of a USAID loan.
The uncommitted foreign exchange resources amounting to LE 13.6 million (around
$35 million) included only around $3 million of IDA II funds which are expected
to be fully committed by end-March 1978; the remainder is the USAID loan,
which is tied exclusively to financing imports from the USA. DIB therefore
urgently requires new untied foreign exchange resources. Proceeds of the
USAID loan like those of the two IDA credits are onlent at the official rate
of exchange (para 2.13).
4.35      When DIB started operations in August 1976, its local currency re-
sources consisting of its share capital of LE 10 million and an additional LE
4.5 million in bonds and deposits were almost fully committed. On the basis



- 27 -
of DIB's financial projections, that were drawn up by DIB and an IDA mission
in August 1976, the CBE approved a line of credit of LE 27 million for DIB to
meet its local currency requirements through 1980 (on a disbursement basis).
The funds withdrawn and outstanding will be repayable at the expiration of the
line of credit on December 31, 1990. DIB will pay an interest charge of 4.5%
p.a. on the proceeds withdrawn and outstanding (this rate corresponds to the
cost of inter-bank bond issues currently prevailing in Egypt). The interest
charge is subject to revision after 1981. Other local resources of DIB con-
sist of LE 3.5 million of 3.5% bonds maturing end-1978, and deposits from
DIB's own clients. The deposits originate principally from cash-covers
against letters of guarantees issued by DIB and compensatory balance deposits
on IDA and USAID financed sub-loans.
I. FinanciAl Performance and Position
4.36      Since DIB has been operating only for about a year and a half a
meaningful analysts of its financial performance cannot be undertaken.
Operating income in its first five months of operations ending December 31,
1976 amounted to LE 350,000 (or 3.5% of equity) and increased to around LE 1.3
million in 1977. Income from IDA financed loans, which were transferred to
DIB only at end-March 1977, contributed to the increase. Preliminary data for
the full year 1977 as given and analyzed in Tables 2 and 3 show satisfactory
results. Total assets as of Dcember 31, 1977, amounted to LE 30.1 million,
consisting mostly of loans (LE 29.0 million). The debt/equity ratio was 1.7:1
leaving ample room for further borrowings and expansion of operations.
Transfer of Assets and Liabilities from BOA to DIB
4.37      The main assets transferred to DIB from BOA consist of the fixed
assets and a good part of the loan and equity portfolio of SSPIS. The port-
folio transferred includes: (i) the portion of SSPIS' local currency port-
folio (mostly loans) which is considered sound and had a book value of approx-
imately LE 13.0 million at the time of transfer (August 1, 1976), and (ii) 65
IDA financed sub-loans with an outstanding amount of $16.0 million, (LE 6.2
million) on the transfer date of March 28, 1977. A third tranche composed of
SSPIS' bad and doubtful local currency loan portfolio, which has a book value
of about LE 4.3 million, will not be transferred to DIB. The main liabilities
transferred included a LE 3.5 million debenture issue due December 1978,
current liabilities of about LE 1.7 million, and the IDA credits. The fixed
assets have been transferred at their book value of around LE 11,000 although
their market value may be over LE 1.0 million.
4.38      In order to establish the amount which DIB will pay BOA for the
transferred assets, net of liabilities, the Government established by decree
(No. 256 dated October 7, 1976) a Valuation Committee composed of one repre-
sentative each from CBE, DIB and BOA. The committee has completed its work
and its recommendations have been accepted by all parties concerned. These
include a transfer of provisions from BOA to DIB, against the loan and equity
portfolio, of about LE 785,000 including about LE 160,000 against IDA sub-
loans.



- 28 -
J.   Quality of Portfolio and Audit
4.39      As of December 31, 1976, local currency loans affected by arrears
over three months amounted to LE 353,000 or 2.7% of the total local currency
portfolio. There were no such arrears on short-term loans. As of June 30,
1977, arrears of over three months were LE 162,000 and the portfolio affected
by such arrears had increased to LE 506,000 representing again 2.7% of the
local currency portfolio. There were 172 clients in arrears, all in the
private sector, of whom 13 with loans outstanding of LE 49,000 are serious
cases.
4.40      On the IDA financed sub-loans, arrears amounted to LE 87,300
($223,000), all in interest, on loans to two private sector clients; the port-
folio affected was LE 1,650,400 ($4,224,000) or 34% of the foreign currency
loan portfolio at December 31, 1976. One enterprise suffered major delays in
project construction and DIB's loan of LE 59,200 was rescheduled; the other
enterprise also experienced delays due to a change in project concept and
design. At June 30, 1977, eight private and two public sector enterprises
fell in arrears amounting to LE 333,000, mostly interest, and affecting a
portfolio of LE 3,245,000 or 50% of the foreign currency loan portfolio. How-
ever, one private sector and two public sector clients accounted for 88% of
loans in arrears; the loans involved were still in their grace period. The
arrears have been due to delays in project construction and are expected to be
temporary.
4.41      In conclusion, DIB's loan portfolio can generally be considered of
sound quality. The provisions, including the amounts to be transferred from
BOA, more than cover all arrears. The risk of loss is also mitigated by cash
cover deposits against loans, amounting to around LE 1.2 million, and other
collateral held by DIB. However, at December 31, 1976, 48% of DIB's loans in
local currency were concentrated in textiles and garment making (27%), leather
(13%) and woodworking (8%) sub-sectors. These sub-sectors have been suffering
recently from losses of marketing opportunities in Eastern European countries.
Consequently enterprises in these sub-sectors may experience transitional
difficulties in the near future. As a counter measure DIB is encouraging and
assisting its client enterprises to increase sales to the domestic market and
to export to convertible currency countries.
4.42      In agreement with IDA, DIB appointed its present auditor on a trial
basis for auditing the 1976 accounts pending a full assessment of his auditing
capacity and performance. Although the auditor presented impressive creden-
tials, the audit of DIB's 1976 accounts has been less than satisfactory. DIB
has therefore appointed another auditor satisfactory to the Bank.



- 29 -
EGYPT - DEVELOPKENT I?'STRT 4L BANK
Table 1: LOAN AND EQUITY OPERATT`V3; Actual and Projected
B|A/SSPIS                                          DIB
A~tua~.          Actual                           r ce
1974    1975      1976      1976      1977     i977      1978      1979      1980      1981
(Jan.-   (Aug.- (Prelim-  (Esti-
July)    Dec.)   inary)    mate)-'
FOREIGN CURRENCY
Medium-/long-             -
term loans:
Approvals ($000)  13,000   1,003   7,500        7,840   30 000   30,000   30,000   36,000   43,200   52,000
5,058     392   2,942       3,063   l1,80W-1 14,0002/ 16,400   23,200   31,000   37,000
Commitments         3,728   1,762   2,298       1,615    9,570   11,270   16,310   21,160   28,660   35,200
Disbursements         463   2,618   1,234          933    3,860    5,862   11,795   17,252   23,058   29,824
Repayments            -        -        -         :.a       860       635    1,095    2,844    5,163    8,341
LOCAL CURRENCY
Long-term loans
Approvals           1,370       25   1,421      1,375    9,836   10,000   10,000   12,000   14,400   17,300
Commitments          n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       1,470    5,207    7,844   10,000   11,500   13,800   16,575
Disbursements        n.a.    n.a.        75        325    5,029    5,173    9,220   10,900   12,880   15,465
Repayments                                       n.a.       807       371    1,270    2,738    4,464    6,517
Medium-term loans
Approvals            n.a.   1,687       543     1,682    4,577    3,000    3,000    3,600    4,300    5,200
Commitments          n.a.    n.a.   1,438         605    4,865    3,350    3,000    3,450    4,125    4,975
Disbursements        n.a.    n.a.       869       643    4,153    3,171    3,171    3,405    4,057    4,890
Repayments           n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        n.a.    1,531    1,408    2,291    3,044    3,912    3,963
Short-term loans
Approvals           2,300  18,694   9,850       5,810   10,139    7,500    7,500    9,000   10,800   13,000
Commitments          n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    12,196    7,542    8,475    7,500    8,775   10,530   12,670
Disbursements        n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        n.a.    6,943    9,757    7,598    8,648   10,355   12,456
Repayments                                                7,560   12,196    7,988    8,138    9,653   11,600
Equity investments
Approvals             -        -        -          -      1,040    1,040        200       240       288       345
Comitments            -        -        -         -       1,040    1,040        200       240      288       345
Disbursements         -        -       -          -         260       260       460       760      288       345
Table 2:  SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS:  Actual and Projected
(LE '000)
Actual                                     Prolected
December 31                  1976           1977            1977   1/  1978         1979        1980        1981
(Aug.-Dec.) (Preliminary)   (Estimate)-
INCOME
Interest on loans           400          2,045            2,117       3,511       5,543       7,949    10,815
Other income 3/             144            376              401         481         577         724        868
Total Income              544          2,421            2,518       3,992       6,120       8,673    11,683
EXPENSES
Financial charges            44            634              730       1,559       2,945       4,550      6,362
Administrative exp.         150            428              417         590         708         846      1,015
194          1,062            1,147       2,149       3,653       5,396      7,377
Operating Income              350          1,359            1,371       1,843       2,467       3,277      4,306
Less: Provisions and
Depreciation        (79)           (308)AJ          (308)       (403)       (504)       (573)      (681)
Profit before taxes           271          1,051            1,063       1,440       1,963       2,704      3,625
Less:  Income Taxes           140            438               438         588         791      1,060      1,398
NET PROFIT                 131            613              625         852       1,172       1,644      2,227
1/  Appraisal estimates made in July 1977 which form the base for 1978-1981 projections.  Preliminary
actual results of loan approvals in 1977 are close to the estimates for foreign currency and long-
term local currency loans but are considerably higher than the estimates for short- and medium-term
local currency loans. Projected approvals of short-term and medium-term local currency loans for
1978-81 would therefore be higher uaing the actual 1977 data rather than the estimates as the base.
2/  While the amount  in US dollars is the same for the 1977 estimate and preliminary actual results,
the amount in Egyptian pounds is different because in actuality all loans in 1977 were made at the
official exchange rate while the estimate had included some at the official rate and some at the
parallel market exchange rate.
3/ Commissions, fees and dividends.
4/ Estimates.
EMENA/ IDF
February 1978



- 30 -
EGYPT - DEVELOPMtENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Table 3: Balance Sheets: Actual and Projected
(LE '000)
December 31                              197,61/       1977         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981
(Audited)    (Preliminary  (Esti-        - - - - - - - - Projections - - -
ASSETS                                                 actual)      mate).Y
Current Assets                          10,069         10,362      11,833       13,488       19,083       25,298       34,599
Portfolio:
Medium and Long Term Loans
Local currency loans                   7,046         15,145     13,611       22,304        30,827       39,388       49,263
Foreign currency loans                  --            8,578     10,565       21,265       35,673        53,568       75,051
Short-term loans                         5,831          5,297       3,392        3,002        3,512        4,214        5,070
12,877         29,020     27,568        46,571       70,012       97,170      129,384
Less: Current Portion of loans          (6,322)        (8,519)3/  (8,519)    (11,946)       (17,412)     (23,466)     (32,725)
Equity Investments                          35            281         295          755        1,515        1,803        2,148
Less: Provisions                          (158)        (1,000)2/  (1,000)       (1,389)      (1,873)      (2,422)      (3,073)
Net Fixed and other Assets                  99             11         165          233          341          437          537
TOTAL ASSETS                       16,600         30 155      30,342       47,712       71,666       98,820      130,870
LIABILITIES
Demand Deposits                          1,567          2,850       1,724        1,896        2,086        2,295        2,524
Compensatory balances                      598         1,239        1,658        1,600        1,500        1,300        1,000
Other current liabilities                  522         6,525        5,940        4,558        7,375       11,241       16,527
Total Current Liabilities             2,687         10,614       9,322        8,054        10,961       14,836       20,051
Long-term Debts
a) Foreign borrowings
IBRD/IDA                            -            8,129       7,900       12,000       18,600       28,000       34,000
Other                               -              -         2,665        9,265       17,073       25,568       41,051
b)  Local borrowings                     3,500         5,500        4,500       10,500       19,200       24,400       29,700
Total long-term debts                    3,500        13,629       15,065       31,765       54,873       77,968      104,751
Less:  Current Portion                     -          (4,595)3/  (4,595)        (2,844)      (5,163)      (8,341)     (12,879)
Other Liabilities                          282           247          282          282          282          282          282
Equity
Share capital                        10,000         10,000      10,000       10,000       10,000       13,000       17,000
Reserves and unappropriated              131           2603/        268          455          713       1,075        1,665
earnings                                  -    -                                         
10,131        10,260       10,268      10,455       10,713        14,075      18,665
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    16_600         30,155      30,342       47,712       71 ,666                  130,870
Contingent Liabilities                     522           483          626          752          902       1,082        1,299
1/ For five months (August-December)
2/  Appraisal estimates made in July 1977 which form the base for 1978-1981 projections.
3/ Estimates.
Projected Performance Indicators
Net profits as % of average
equity                                   -             6.0          6.1         8.2         11.0         13.2         13.6
Profits before interest and taxes
as % of average total assets             -             6.5          6.9          7.7          8.2          8.5          8.7
Administrative expenses 1/ as
% of average total assets               -              2.8         2.7          2.5          2.0          1.6          1.4
Average spread on borrowings
(excluding deposits)                    -              3.1         3.1          2.9          2.7          2.6          2.5
Debt/Equity (DIB Policy)                   -             1.7          1.7          3.3          5.4         5.8          5.8
Provision for loss as %
of loan portfolio                       -              3.4          3.6         3.0          2.6          2.5          2.4
1/  Including provisions for bad debts.
EMENA/IDF
November 1977



- 31 -
V. PROSPECTS AND PROJECTIONS
A. Industrial Sector Prospects
5.01      The growth prospects for the industrial sector in Egypt are good
particularly if peaceful conditions prevail in the area. Within the public
sector the most dynamic sub-sectors are engineering, building materials and
chemicals. While textiles and food are the two largest sectors in terms of
both output and exports their growth performance could be impeded unless
input constraints (quotas on raw materials) and price controls are relaxed
(para 1.14). The Bank has financed surveys of six sub-sectors--engineering,
building materials, textiles, chemicals, food, and pulp and paper--with the
view to developing a comprehensive strategy for the development of each sector
as well as to identify specific investment opportunities. The Government
plans foresee investment of LE 3,000 million in public industrial enterprises
and some LE 863 million in joint venture projects between 1977-81.
5.02      In the private sector, the most promising industrial sub-sectors
are engineering including transport equipment, chemicals, food processing,
wood-working and furniture, ready-made garments and leather products. Aside
from the growing domestic demand and export potential, factors reinforcing
their growth prospects include relatively insignificant scale economies, com-
plementarity with large industries and low capital intensity. The changing
direction of trade towards Western markets requires rapid and sustained
improvement in the quality of consumer goods particularly garments, shoes
and furniture, for which upgrading and modernization of antiquated processes
and plant in the relevant industries is needed. Such investments are expected
to constitute an important part of DIB's financing.
5.03      For the next few years about 50% of local private industrial invest-
ment outlays are expected to be in new and expansion projects, and the balance
in modernization or replacement of equipment. GOFI approved 693 local private
sector investment proposals in 1976, involving an estimated capital outlay of
LE 95.0 million. The Government plans foresee private sector industrial
investments to amount to LE 300 million during the 1977-81 Plan period. Based
on the investment applications with GOFI and the foreign investment authority
(paras 1.17, 1.18), and a survey of investment demand at DIB (para 5.05) and
other financial institutions, it is likely that actual private investment in
that period would far exceed the indicative Plan target.
B. Projections of DIB's Operations and Finances
5.04      The operational and financial projections for 1978-1981 are based on
a pipeline of projects and on the expectations for DIB operations in light of
industrial investment prospects. Account is also taken of DIB's appraisal and



- 32 -
supervision capacity. Detailed assumptions for DIB's operational and finan-
cial projections are available in the Project File (see Annex 1). In line
with its objective and strategy DIB will concentrate on medium- and long-term
lending to private industry. Its financing of public sector projects would be
mostly in foreign exchange. Sectorally, DIB expects to give priority, in
decreasing order, to food processing and agroindustries, building materials,
tourism and engineering and metal products, which are in line with economic
priorities and growth potential. Additionally, the important sectors of
artisanal and other SSI activity (para 1.06) will also be given priority by
DIB for SSI projects. DIB has targetted 20-25% of its lending in amount to
SSI and projects benefitting the urban and rural poor.
Operations
5.05      As of December 31, 1977, DIB's pipeline consisting of private sector
projects that had received GOFI approvals included 421 loan applications for
LE 6 million in local currency and the equivalent of $90 million in for-
eign exchange. Applications from public sector firms numbered 28 for $26
million. 1/ The pipeline for foreign exchange loans largely reflects earlier
GOFI approvals in 1975 and 1976 (totalling LE 162 million in investment
proposals from private sponsors), when resources were insufficient to satisfy
the demand; the pipeline is expected to substantially increase as more of the
1977 approvals by GOFI and the foreign investment authority are added.
Projected approvals, commitments and disbursements of DIB are detailed in
Table I (at the beginning of this Chapter) along with actual and estimated
past operations in 1974-77. Resources are not expected to constitute a
constraint in DIB's business (paras 5.08 and 5.09).
5.06      DIB expects its loan approvals in 1978 to be at the same level as
in 1977 to allow it to consolidate its business in line with its processing
capacity. Thereafter (1979-81) a 20% annual growth rate is assumed in current
terms (equivalent to an estimated real growth rate of about 10%). There is a
risk that the foreign exchange business for DIB in the private sector might
be lower in the short run due to the competition from alternate sources of
finance (para 2.07). In that case lending to public sector is expected to
make up the difference (see para 6.05). Foreign exchange loans to SSI are
expected to increase to a level of about LE 3.5 million in 1978 and also
increase by 20% thereafter. DIB is expected to experience a significant drop
in short-term local currency approvals (para 4.28), from LE 15.6 million in
1976 to LE 7.5 million in 1978; and thereafter a 20% growth rate is assumed
through 1981 as for term loans.
5.07      Project promotions through equity investments are an important
objective for DIB but one that it is not fully geared to implement on a
1/   These figures exclude 33 applications from the private and public sectors
requiring LE 4.2 million in local currency and $48 million in foreign
exchange which DIB has rejected after a preliminary screening.



- 33 -
significant scale in the near future. Also, opportunities for equity invest-
ments in private domestic ventures tend to be constrained by the predominance
of individually owned and partnership firms, investments in which would be
difficult to control. Equity investment approvals by DIB are therefore
projected at a low level of LE 200,000 in 1978 with a growth rate of 20% p.a.
through 1981.
Resource Needs-
5.08      DIB's local currency requirements on a disbursement basis are fully
covered through 1980, given existing resources (para 4.33) and projected loan
repayments, internal cash generation and increases in demand deposits. On an
approval basis, these resources would cover DIB's needs through end-1979.
(DIB's resource gaps are calculated on the basis of its approvals because of
its policy to approve loans only when resources are available for them). The
CBE is expected to provide, or assist DIB to mobilize, additional local cur-
rency resources as and when needed and assurances in this regard have already
been obtained from CBE and the Government (Supplemental letter to the amending
agreement for the transfer of IDA I and II to DIB).
5.09      As of June 30, 1977 the balance of DIB's foreign exchange resources
available for new approvals amounted to $27.5 million (i.e. uncommitted
resources of $35 million--para 4.33--less uncommitted approvals of $7.5 mil-
lion). DIB's resource requirements would amount to $80 million to cover
approvals from June 30, 1977 through December 31, 1979, leaving a resource gap
of about $52.5 million. DIB has already secured a loan of around $6 million
from the African Development Bank. A loan of $8.75 million from the OPEC
Special Fund (OSF), targetted for small enterprises, will reduce that gap by
another $7 million or so through 1979 since DIB is not expected to approve
more than that amount for the target group proposed by OSF (see para 6.03).
The remaining gap of about $39.5 million will be financed by the proposed Bank
loan. The Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development is also considering a
loan to DIB to cover its resource needs for 1980 and possible overflow--higher
than projected operations and resource needs--through 1979.
Financial Performance
5.10      Actual and projected income statements are summarized in Table 2.
Following the transfer of IDA I and II to DIB, new sub-loans approved from
the uncommitted balance of IDA II are being made at an interest rate of 11%
p.a. providing DIB a spread of 3% p.a. (The spread on sub-loans under IDA I
is 2.5% and under IDA II, prior to the transfer, it was 2.0%). On new foreign
exchange resources, a 2% spread and an 8% cost to DIB have been assumed for
the projections, although for the proposed Bank loan a minimum spread of 2.5%
is required (and the cost to DIB is expected to be 7.45%, the current interest
rate on Bank loans) which will somewhat improve the profit picture presented
below. A spread higher than 2.5% is unlikely to be charged by DIB in order
for it to remain competitive (para 2.07). Based on current interest rates,
the average interest rate on local currency loans is projected to be 8.5% p.a.
on short-term loans and 9% on medium- and long-term loans, providing DIB a



- 34 -
spread of 4% to 4.5% over the cost of the CBE line of credit. DIB's admin-
istrative expenses and bad debt provisions are projected to decrease from
about 2.8% of average total assets in 1977 to about 1.4% by 1981 (averaging
about 2%). The average spread of about 2.5% on foreign currency operations
would thus cover the administrative expenses and provisions but contribute
little to profitability in the early years. The spread on local currency
operations (4-4.5% on borrowed funds and 8.5-9% on deployment of equity funds)
would provide most of the profit surplus. The interest coverage ratio would
remain above 1.5. Profit before taxes would more than triple, from 10.3% of
average equity in 1977 to 22.1% in 1981, assuming the share capital of LE 10
million increases to LE 17 million by 1981 (para 5.12). Income before taxes
and interest will increase from 6.5% in 1977 to 8.7% of average total assets
in 1980, showing satisfactory return on the total investment. DIB's profit-
ability prospects appear reasonably good on the basis of the aforementioned
assumptions.
5.11      DIB will continue to assess regularly the competition for its
foreign exchange lending with a view to increasing, when practicable, its
interest rate and other charges on such lending so as to reduce its reliance
on low-cost local currency resources for maintaining reasonable profitability.
It will keep the Bank currently informed of the conclusions drawn from, and
the action inspired by, such assessments.
Financial Position
5.12      The projected balance sheets are shown in Table 3.  DIB's total
assets would grow from LE 30.1 million at December 31, 1977 to LE 131 million
at the end of 1981. This increase is accounted for essentially by the growth
of DIB's portfolio (net of provisions) from LE 28.3 million to LE 128.5 million
over the same period. The weight of short-term loans outstanding, as planned,
would continue to decline reaching 4.0% (LE 5.0 million) of total loans out-
standing at end 1981. Local currency term loan portfolio increases from about
LE 15 million to LE 49.0 million between 1977 and 1981. Foreign currency term
loans register the fastest growth both in relative and absolute terms, from LE
8.6 million at end-1977 to LE 75 million at end-1980 (or from 30% to 58% of
total loan portfolio). This large increase also reflects the application of
the parallel market exchange rate to most new foreign currency loans from 1978
onwards. Annual provisions from income amounting to 2% of new loans outstand-
ing are intended to be set aside by DIB accumulating to 2.3% of the loan port-
folio by 1981; this provision policy appears satisfactory at present.
5.13      With the sustained growth of its portfolio and the corresponding
borrowing needs, DIB's debt/equity ceiling of 6:1 (prescribed in its Policy
Statement) would be reached in 1980. In order to remain within the prescribed
limit a share capital increase of LE 3 million in 1980 and LE 4 million in
1981 would be required. CBE and DIB would consider an increase in DIB's
capital accordingly unless a relaxation of the debt/equity limit is considered
to be acceptable. DIB's projected financial structure is balanced and sound.



- 35 -
VI. THE PROJECT
6.01      The Project has been formulated for financing both by the Bank and
the OSF. An OSF loan of $8.75 million has recently been signed (paras. 6.20-
6.23), and a Bark loan of $40 million is recommended for approval in this
report. The project consists of three components:
(a) providing a part of DIB's foreign exchange requirements for
industrial 1/ financing over about two years, 1978-1979
(parallel financing by the Bank and OSF of different sub-
projects);
(b) assisting DIB in strengthening its development banking
functions and related organization and procedures (finan-
cing and technical assistance from the Bank only); and
(c) financing a program of technical assistance to SSI 2/
through institutions other than DIB (with the Bank and OSF
financing the foreign exchange and local costs, respec-
tively).
A. Industrial Financing Through DIB
6.02      The provision of industrial finance through DIB constitutes the pre-
dominant part of the project. The entire OSF loan and all but $500,000 of
the proposed Bank loan are for this purpose. The proposed Bank financing
would fill the resource gap in DIB's foreign exchange requirements through
1979 providing about 60% of the total requirement over two years, 1978-1979
(para 5.09). The sub-projects financed will be primarily in the private
sector. This objective is in line with DIB's own policy (para. 4.14) and
lending strategy (para 5.04) which are endorsed by the Government and reflect
the economic priorities. The sectoral and regional lending strategy of DIB is
considered satisfactory at present and is expected to be followed by DIB also
in onlending both Bank and OSF funds. In addition, specific conditions
regarding the use of these funds relating to SSI and public sector projects
are outlined below. The Bank's continued study of the Egyptian industrial
sector (para. 1.15) might suggest some reorientation of DIB's lending pri-
orities and/or strategy over time, and DIB would welcome such suggestions.
DIB's good faith in cooperating with the Bank on such and other institutional
matters is now well established.
1/   Industry in this context is defined broadly, as done by DIB, to include
manufacturing and processing, agro-industry, tourism and related service
activities.
2/   SSI for this project are defined as enterprises whose fixed assets exclud-
ing land and building do not exceed LE 150,000 (around $215,000); the same
definition as used by DIB.



- 36 -
SSI and "UPP" Lending
6.03      The 0SF loan of $8.75 million will finance only the smaller of the
SSI, those with total assets excluding land and building not exceeding LE
100,000 at the time of application to DIB for an OSF sub-loan, with at least
half the amount directed to SSI whose assets, as defined above, do not exceed
LE 20,000. Sub-borrowers will be charged 8% p.a. interest rate on OSF sub-
loans. This onlending rate by DIB is lower than that recommended under the
proposed Bank loan, but it has been accepted in view of OSF's strong views to
provide an incentive for SSI development. The OSF loan is sufficient to cover
DIB's entire projected lending in foreign exchange to the above target group
for the period 1978-1979. In practice, therefore, Bank funds will not be
utilized to finance this group.
6.04      In addition to SSI financing under the OSF loan it is estimated that
about 10% of the proposed Bank loan, or $4 million, will be onlent by DIB for
SSI projects. It is also estimated that about 10% of the total Bank loan and
about 20% of the combined Bank and OSF loans would qualify for the Bank's
"Urban Poverty Progam" (UPP) target lending. 1/
Public Sector Lending
6.05      As previously discussed in para. 4.15, there are reasonable grounds
for DIB to continue some lending to the public sector. DIB will be allowed to
onlend up to $10 million (or 25%) of the proposed Bank loan to public sector
projects. An understanding has been reached with DIB and is incorporated in
its Strategy Statement that lending to the public sector would not be at the
expense of fulfilling private sector demand which has priority. Moreover, one
or both of the following criteria will have to be met in order to make public
sector projects eligible for lending under the proposed loan:
(a) project sponsors are public sector companies with some
private ownership (mixed companies);
(b) new projects where at least 20% of the output will be
exported to convertible currency countries; in the case
of projects involving replacement, modernization of
machinery, or expansion, at least 20% of the entire
production of the unit should be exported to convertible
currency countries.
6.06      Mixed companies have a better chance than other public sector
companies of becoming privatized through sale of shares to the public,
1/   Projects with investment per job generated not exceeding $3,000 in 1977
prices would qualify for UPP lending.



- 37 -
thus assisting in the development of the capital market. The second criterion,
export orientation, is perhaps the most important in the Egyptian context for
the growth of industry and for balance of payment reasons.
B. Institution Building of DIB
6.07      The institutional weaknesses of DIB have been discussed in Chapter
IV. DIB requires assistance zo strengthen its operational and financial
policy and planning, arid to develop and implement an appropriate management
information system. Furtner strengthening of project appraisal and supervi-
sion is also needed, particularly in respect of SSI projects, and for project
promctions. This strengthening is needed both at management and staff levels.
6.08      Assisting Dll in its institution building efforts remains an impor-
tant objective cf the Bank in its lending to DIB. Such support has previously
been provided by iDA in the form of financing--$90,000 component for training
a.id technical assistance under IDA II--as well as direct technical assistance
through our supervision and appraisal process. Part of the previous financing
for this purpose ie still to be utilized.  An additional amount of $300,000 is
included under the proposed loan primarily for the financing of two advisors
to DIB for up tc two years each: one a management advisor on organization,
planning and policy matters and the other a technical advisor on project
appraisal and supervision. Training for DIB staff will also be eligible for
finaacing from this proposed amount to the extent that funds available under
IDA II need to be supplemented (paras. 4.11, 4.12). Only foreign exchange
expenditures will be eligible for financing under the loan. The amount of
Bank financing required may be less if one or both of the advisers can be
financed under the USAID grant to DIB. Technical assistance through Bank/IDA
supervision of DIB, particulary through missions to DIB, is also expected to
continue.
C. Technical Assistance Program for SSI
6.09      In conjunction with the financial support to SSI through DIB, a
technical assistance pilot program has been designed to help the development
of SSI, including the artisanal sector. The objectives of the program are to:
(a) raise the productivity of enterprises by improving manu-
facturing processes and extension of assistance to solve
problems in areas of production engineering and management;
(b) increase the quantum of skills available to SSI by acce-
lerated training and skill upgrading; and
(c) remedy deficiencies in the commercial aspects of management.



- 38 -
6.10      Technical assistance delivery agencies catering to SSI are virtual-
ly non-existent in Egypt. Delivery institutions for the program have been
chosen primarily for their organizational and, in general, their managerial
capability to discharge effectively the functions assigned. Making use of
already available facilities, including personnel, has been an important
factor in the selection.
6.11      The program components and their implementing agencies are as
follows:
(i) Technical extension services, including project prepara-
tion assistance, for engineering, metalworking, plastics,
woodworking and furniture-making enterprises, to be
organized and implemented in Cairo by the Engineering and
Industrial Design and Development Centre (EIDDC), a public
sector organization.
(ii)  Skill upgrading of workers in selected engineering, metal-
working, woodworking and furniture-making enterprises, to be
carried out by EIDDC in Cairo.
(iii)  Accelerated training for unskilled or semiskilled workers
in selected engineering enterprises, to be implemented by
the Productivity and Vocational Training Department of the
Ministry of Industry (PVT) in Cairo and Alexandria.
(iv)  Industrial management development for SSI to be executed
by EIDDC in Cairo.
6.12      A description of the components and the executing agencies may be
obtained from the Project File. Many of the SSI benefitting from the program
will be DIB clients and others are likely to become its clients. The Govern-
ment has agreed to the formation of a coordination committee consisting of
representatives from DIB, EIDI)C, PVT and the Ministry of Industry to oversee
the implementation of the program. All components of the program are to be
finalized, satisfactorily to the Bank, by September 30, 1978 and implemented
thereafter. The program will require extensive supervision by the Bank.
6.13      The regional coverage for this pilot program has been aimed at
Cairo and, for part of the program, to Alexandria where a majority of SSI are
located. The industry sub-sectoral coverage has been restricted to those with
urgent need and where maximum benefits are achievable with the proposed effort.
The program is expected to commence by end-1978 and run for a duration of 18
months. Towards the end of the program the implementing agencies, the Govern-
ment and the Bank will evaluate the experience and the progress made based on
a set of quantitative and qualitative criteria that have been agreed upon.
The trial period enhances flexibility, enabling the Government and the Bank to
test the capabilities of the delivery institutions, profit from the experience
to be gained and, conceivably, expand and/or redirect further efforts as
appropriate.



- 39 -
6.14      Local costs of the overall program are estimated to be around LE
200,000 (about US$280,000) and the foreign exchange costs US$200,000. 1/ The
foreign exchange costs--which include $80,000 for machinery and supplies,
$110,000 for 24 man/months of services from three advisors, and $10,000 for
fellowships and study tours--will be financed under the proposed Bank loan.
The total foreign exchange financing of $200,000 is for EIDDC. The OSF has
agreed to finance the local costs from a special fund accrued by DIB from
interest earnings on the OSF sub-loans (see para 6.21). Until sufficient
funds accrue in this manner, the Government has agreed to advance the funds to
meet the local costs; it will subsequently be reimbursed from the special fund.
D. Prolect Justification and Benefits
6.15      The project would finance primarily the development of the private
industrial sector in Egypt which has received inadequate attention over the
last two decades. The needs of this sector for replacement and modernization
of equipment are widespread and the scope for economic development and expan-
sion substantial. Such development now has the approval of the Government
although the role of public sector is not to be minimized.
6.16      The proposed financing of public sector projects under the loan,
although small in relation to this sector's needs, is justifiable on grounds
of providing marginal financing to expedite sound projects and to spread the
use of proper appraisal techniques to the sector (para. 4.15). Also, most
public sector sub-projects to be financed would satisfy the important objec-
tive of export promotion.
6.17      The project's emphasis on financial and technical assistance to SSI
would have major social and economic benefits. The importance of the SSI sec-
tor to the Egyptian economy, both in terms of employment and output, remains
unequivocal. Promotion of SSI can also be expected to provide greater scope
for entrepreneurial development and initiative, innovation and the development
of technical and managerial skills; promote redistribution of income; and
stimulate savings and investment. During the development of the project, DIB
itself has been convinced of the merits of SSI promotion and has set a target
of 20-25% of its total lending in amount to be directed to SSI or UPP oriented
projects, about the same as the target under the proposed project for Bank and
OSF financing (para. 6.04).
6.18      The sub-projects to be financed under either the Bank or OSF loan
are not yet known (as is normal for DFC projects) except that some of the
projects in DIB's current pipeline of projects are likely to be submitted for
Bank and OSF financing. The scant information available on these projects
as of yet does not allow computation of their financial rates of return (FRR)
I/   Excluding import duties on equipment and taxes on the salaries of foreign
experts (advisers).



- 40 -
or economic rates of return (ERR). Sub-projects financed under IDA I and II
had FRR and ERR (estimates) ranging between 12-32% and 10-27%, respectively,
and the proposed loan can be expected to achieve similar results. Sub-
projects submitted for Bank financing above the free limit (para 7.01) will
have to show a minimum ERR of 10%. The ERR calculation is often impractical
for small projects and will not be required for sub-projects below the free
limit. DIB, however, is expected to continue to satisfy itself on the finan-
cial viability and, where practical to analyze, the economic viability of such
projects through FRR, ERR or other analyses.
6.19      On the institution-building side the Bank would be extending both
financial and technical assistance to DIB to strengthen it as an institution
that can better fulfill its objectives of assisting and promoting industrial
development in Egypt. Also, through the SSI Technical Assistance Program the
Bank would initiate and contribute to the development of agencies that can
cater to the important technical assistance and training needs of SSI.
E. OSF Loan Features
6.20      A loan in the amount of $8.75 million has been extended by OSF to
the Government of Egypt. It is interest-free, subject to a service charge of
0.75% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding and will be repaid over
20 years, including a 5-year grace period. The loan proceeds will be onlent
by the Government to DIB, without interest, with the same service charge of
0.75%, and with a maturity period of 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period. Onlending will be effected by virtue of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and DIB to be approved by OSF.
6.21      DIB will use the loan proceeds by providing sub-loans to small
enterprises in Egypt as defined in para. 6.03. The terms of these sub-loans
to sub-borrowers will include an interest rate (including all charges and
commissions) of 8% per annum, a grace period of one to two years and a repay-
ment period not exceeding 12 years. The foreign exchange risk will be borne
by the sub-borrowers. 1/ DIB will keep for itself a spread of 1.25% per annum
as administrative charges. The remaining differential (equivalent to a yearly
return of 6% of disbursed sub-loans, or $525,000 per annum when the loan is
fully disbursed and outstanding) will constitute a special fund owned by the
Government but kept and administered by DIB. This special fund, including
interest on the amounts transferred to it, will be used by DIB for technical
and other assistance to SSI and to cover bad debts on OSF sub-loans, subject
to the supervision of OSF. Up to 30% of the special fund can be earmarked
as provision for bad debts.
1/   Sub-borrowers will be obligated to repay their sub-loans in local cur-
rency in an amount equivalent to the foreign exchange loan at the highest
officially declared exchange rate applicable at the time of repayment
(viz the parallel market exchange rate).



- 41 -
6.22      DIB will have a free-limit of $250,000 on individual sub-loans.  'Any
sub-loan exceeding this amount will require the prior approval of OSF. The
closing date for the disbursement of the OSF loan will be 4 years after sig-
nature of the loan agreement unless this period is extended by OSF. To facil-
itate disbursement, OSF will make an advance payment of $1 million to DIB,
and upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the use of this amount for
sub-projects it will make subsequent advance payments until the total loan
amount is disbursed.
6.23      No special procurement conditions, appraisal criteria or guidelines
are prescribed by OSF. DIB will follow its normal procedures on these matters.
F. Joint Administration of Bank and OSF Loans
6.24      The financing of sub-projects by DIB will not involve blending of,
or joint financing with, Bank and OSF funds because the target groups for the
two loans have been differentiated (para. 6.03). For the SSI Technical Assis-
tance Program, OSF will be financing the local costs through the interest
accrued on its sub-loans, while the Bank will finance the foreign exchange
costs. At the request of OSF, the Bank has agreed to administer both the SSI
lending and technical assistance financing under the OSF loan. Details of
this arrangement, as provided for in a letter of agreement between OSF and the
Bank, are satisfactory.
VII. PROPOSED LOAN AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      A Bank loan of $40 million is recommended to be made to DIB for
financing the foreign exchange expenditures under the project described in
the preceding chapter. This includes $39.5 million for financing industrial
sub-projects with a maximum allocation of $10 million for the public sector,
$300,000 for training and technical assistance for DIB and $200,000 for the
SSI Technical Assistance Program. The principal features of the loan are
as follows:
(a)  DIB will onlend the $200,000 allocated for the SSI Technical
Assistance Program as a sub-loan to the Government with a
repayment term of 17 years, including two years grace, from
the date of signing of the Bank loan and with interest and
other charges the same as on the Bank loan to DIB;
(b)  Government in turn will make the proceeds under (a) available
on a grant basis to EIDDC. The Government and not DIB or EIDDC
will thus carry the repayment obligation for this part of the
loan;
(c) the $300,000 training and technical assistance component for
DIB will be repayable over 17 years, including two years grace;



- 42 -
(d)  DIB's onlending terms for industrial sub-projects will include
at least a 2.5% interest spread for DIB (para 5.10), unless
otherwise agreed between DIB and the Bank. The sub-borrowers
will assume the Bank's commitment charge and the foreign ex-
change risk between the US dollar and the Egyptian pound; 1/
the Government will assume the foreign exchange risk between
the US dollar and other currencies owed to the Bank. Sub-
loans may be made for a maximum period of 15 years including
grace periods as deemed appropriate for the sub-project by DIB.
(In practice the repayment term of DIB's loans rarely exceeds
12 years including about 2 years grace.)
(e)  the amortization of the Bank loan will be a composite of the
amortization of the individual industrial sub-loans and the
technical assistance components mentioned in (a) through (d)
above. With the given commitment period for sub-projects of
about 2 years after signature of the proposed loan, the final
maturity of the loan will thus fall within about 17 years;
(f)  the final date for submission of sub-projects will be June 30,
1980 and the closing date December 31, 1982; 2/ and
(g)  other terms and conditions will follow those applicable to
normal Bank loans to DFCs.
7.02      Under IDA II ($25 million credit), the "free limit" for individual
sub-projects and the "aggregate free limit" are $250,000 and $8 million,
respectively. Commensurate with the improving appraisal capability of DIB
a higher free limit to $400,000 has been set under the proposed loan. To
continue the Bank's input in strengthening DIB's appraisals, a reasonable
number of sub-projects should be submitted for the Bank's review and approval;
to ensure this an aggregate free limit of $16 million has been set. With
these limits it is expected that the loan will finance about 110 sub-projects
including 30 over the free limit. Most, if not all, of OSF financed sub-
projects will fall under their free limit of $250,000.
7.03      The above terms and conditions, the criteria for public sector proj-
ects eligibility (para 6.05), and the ERR criterion for sub-projects above
the free limit (para 6.18) have been reflected in the draft Loan Agreement
1/   See footnote 1/ to para 6.21.
2/   Loan disbursements are estimated as follows:
--------- $ million -----------
Bank FY       79       80        81       82
Annual                      4.4       13.0      14.3      8.3
Cumulative                  4.4       17.4      31.7     40.0



- 43 -
and agreed with DIB during negotiations. In addition, the following matters
and undertakings have been agreed with DIB during negotiations and recorded in
Supplemental Letters to the draft Loan Agreement:
(i) DIB will: (a) establish an advisory committee to its
Board (para 4.06); (b) inform the Bank of the qualifi-
cations and experience of persons appointed to general
manager positions (para 4.09); and (c) appoint a senior
management adviser and a technical adviser on project
appraisals and supervision (para 4.12).
(ii)  DIB will continue to assess regularly the competition
for its foreign exchange lending with a view to increasing
its interest rate and other charges on such lending (para
5.11).
(iii) DIB will keep the Bank currently informed of any major
changes in its Strategy Statement affecting its organi-
zation (para 4.11) and operation (paras 5.04 and 6.05).
7.04      During negotiations, the Government agreed on the following items
and these have been reflected in the draft Guarantee Agreement or Supplemental
Letters as indicated below:
(i) The Government will: (a) continue its current policy of
filling any vacancies on DIB's Board of Directors with
persons with high qualifications and suitable professional
and business experience; (b) keep the Bank informed of
possible changes in the law regarding the composition of
the boards of directors of public sector banks; and
(c) take the necessary steps on its part in order to assist
DIB in establishing an advisory committee to DIB's Board
of Directors (para 4.06).
(ii)  For the SSI technical assistance program, the Government
will: (a) pass on the Bank funds and assume the repayment
obligation as per para 7.01(b) (Guarantee Agreement);
(b) provide the local cost financing (para 6.14); and
*                     (c) establish a coordination committee to oversee the
execution of the program (para 6.12).
7.05      In addition, the following matters were confirmed during negotiations
and recorded in the minutes of negotiations:
(i) DIB's new salary structure (para 4.11);
(ii) streamlining and standardizing DIB's processing of loan
applications (para 4.22) and strengthening of supervision
procedures (para 4.24);



- 44 -
(iii) decision of CBE not to transfer SSPIS' bad and doubtful
portfolio to DIB (para 4.37);
(iv) DIB's plan of action to deal with a possible deterioration
of its portfolio in certain industrial sub-sectors (para
4.41);
(v) appointment of a qualified auditor for DIB (para 4.42);
(vi) projected increase in share capital in 1980-81 (para 5.13);
(vii) the evaluation criteria for the SSI Technical Assistance
Program (para 6.13); and
(viii) submission of periodic progress reports by DIB to the Bank.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN
THE PROJECT FILE
A.l/B.l   ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT:  SURVEY OF SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY
(Report No. 1818-EGT dated December 2, 1977)
C.1   DIB's Organization Chart as of July 30, 1977
C.2   DIB:  Policy Statement
C.3   DIB:  Loan Authorization Limits Delegated to Management
C.4   DIB:  Characteristics of BOA/SSPIS and DIB's Loan Approvals
(1975-December 31, 1977)
C.5   DIB:  Analysis of Projects Financed under Credits 412-EGT and 576-EGT
C.6   DIB:  Statement of Loans in Arrears of Over Three Months
(as of December 31, 1976 and June 30, 1977)
C.7   DIB:  Resource Position as of June 30, 1977
C.8   DIB:  Strategy Statement
C.9   Assumptions Governing DIB's Operational and Financial Projections
(1978-81)
C.10  DIB:  Actual and Projected Operations and Financial Statements
Loan and Equity Operations
Income Statements
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
Balance Sheets
C.ll DIB: Projected Performance Indicators
C.12 DIB: Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Bank Loan
C.13 Details of the Technical Assistance Program for Small-Scale
Industries (SSI) in Arab Republic of Egypt
C.14 Letter of Agreement between the Bank and OSF
(regarding administration by the Bank of OSF loan to DIB)
EMENA/IDF
February 28, 1978



