CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1533 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Third DIB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Dated April 12, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1533 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a banking institution established and operating under the laws of
the Arab Republic of Egypt.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (f) of this
Agreement.
(b) "investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific industrial
development project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Egyptian Pound" and the sign and letter "LE" mean the
currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Articles of Association" means the Articles of Associ-
atiou of the Borrower issued under Ministerial Decree No. 65 of
February 17, 1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the Policy Statement
approved by the Borrower's Board of Directors on July 28, 1976, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior consent of the Bank.
(i) "Strategy Statement" means the strategy statement
approved by the Borrower's Board of Directors as amended to the
date of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(j) "Prior Development Credit Agreement" means any out-
standing development credit agreement between the International
Development Association and the Guarantor in which the Borrower
has been the beneficiary, dated before the date oi this Agreement
and "Prior Credit" means any credit provided for therein.
(k) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
(1) "SSI" means the small scale industry of Egypt which
comprises, for the purposes of the technical assistance programs
provided under Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article III
of the Guarantee Agreement, any enterprise whose fixed assets,
excluding land and buildings, are estimated at no more than
LE150,000, or at such other amount as the Bank shall agree.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred


﻿-3-
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower agrees to relend, out of the
proceeds of the Loan, an amount equivalent to $200,OCO, or such
other amount as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower,
to the Guarantor for use by its Ministry of Industry, Petroleum
and Mining for the purpose of financing the foreign currency cost
of goods and services required for the carrying out of a technical
assistance program for SSI. Debt service payments in respect of
said amount shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall allocate out of the proceeds of the
Loan an amount not exceeding $300,000 for the financing of the
foreign currency cost of goods and services required for the
implementation of a program satisfactory to the Bank for streng-
thening the management and operational procedures of the Borrower.
(c) The amount of the Loan referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made):
(i) in foreign currency in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services described in said paragraphs and supplied from
outside the territory of the Guarantor; and (ii) in Egyptian
Pounds in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
described in said paragraphs and supplied from the territory of
the Guarantor to the extent that in the opinion of the Bank such
expenditures represent the foreign exchange cost of the goods or
services for which they are incurred.
(d) Except for the amounts allocated under paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section, the amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan or
investment to meet the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-
loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall
have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a
free-lim't sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.


﻿-4-
(e) The Borrower may provide sub-loans, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000: (i) to
Investment Enterprises in the public sector of the Guarantor in
which the Guarantor holds the majority of voting stock or other
proprietary interests; and (ii) to Investment Enterprises in the
public sector of Egypt which are entirely owned by the Guarantor,
provided that such public sector Enterprises shall use the
proceeds of such sub-loans for the implementation of Investment
Projects expected, on the basis of realistic estimates, to enable
such Enterprises to sell and to export not less than 20% of their
respective products for freely convertible currencies.
(f) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $400,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or (ii)
$16,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit
sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from
time to time as determined by the Bank and the Borrower.
(g) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub--loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and a calculation
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank that the annual
economic rate of return of the Investment Project must be expected


﻿F                                   5
to be not less than 10%; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the
Loan to be used for the investment; and (iii) such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) In making a sub-loan to an Investment Enterprise, the
Borrower shall charge on such sub-loan, in addition to the corres-
ponding amount of commitment charge, if any, borne by the Borrower
in connection with such sub-loan, and except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, an annual rate of interest exceed-
ing by not less than 2-1/2% the rate of interest specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1980.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Sched4ule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made or, April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to
the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) shall
not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or, in the case of a free-
limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof; and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal annual, semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The principal amount of any sub-loan shall be the
equivalent in terms of Egyptian pounds (determined as of the
respective dates of debt service on the sub-loan) of the U.S.
dollar equivalent (determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such
sub-loan; the equivalents in terms of Egyptian pounds shall be
determined on the basis of the highest rate of exchange declared
by the Central Bank of Egypt.
(d) The Borrover shall pay to the Guarantor the equivalent
in Egyptian pounds of any gains it shall make on account of
changes in the value in terms of U.S. dollars of the currency or
currencies in which debt service payments shall be made on the
Loan pursuant to Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the General
Conditions; conversely, the Borrower shall receive from the.
Guarantor, pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement,


﻿-7-
the equivalent in Egyptian Pounds of any losses on account of
such changes.
(e) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its con-
sideration, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If the portion of the Loan relent under Section 2.02 (a)
of this Agreement or a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be
repaid to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or
an investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next follow4ng interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, such
portion of the Loan or part thereof or the amount withdrawn from
the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or investment or part
thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan
so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of the portion of
the Loan relent under Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement or an
investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such portion of
the Loan or such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in Egypt as will contribute to the economic and social development


﻿of the country. The Project consists of: (i) the financing of
specific industrial development projects through loans to and
investments in private enterprises and loans to public enter-
prises in Egypt, in furtherance ef the corporate purposes of
the Borrower; (ii) assisting the Borrower in strengthening its
organization and improving its operational procedures; and (iii)
the financing of a technical assistance program for SSI.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, except for
the technical assistance program for SSI, and conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Articles of Association, Statement of Policy
and Strategy Statement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of ary sub-10an and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any invest-
ment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency %nd in accordance with sound techni-
cal, financial and manageriO. standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or


﻿-9-
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank
or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and Investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions in agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
Subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
Subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenanti
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing prirciples consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of Its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of aay Sub-
sidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in its Statement
of Policy; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
and adversely affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the ratio between the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding and the
consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries would exceed the debt/equity ratio specified in the
Borrower's Statement of Policy. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any long-term or short-term debt incurred
by the Borrower, any guarantee provided by the Borrower, but only
to the extent that it is not covered by a security, and any cash
deposited with the Borrower excluding cash held by the Borrower
as security for loans provided by it;*
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any Prior
Development Credit Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such
loan contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
purposes of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
*    This is the definition of debt provided in the Borrower's
Statement of Policy.


﻿- 12 -
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subidiary or
of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any othez iubsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Egyptian Pounds) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its sub-
sidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Articles of Associ-
ation which would materially and adversely affect the operations
or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy
without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event-specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (e) of
Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of August 10, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Development Industrial Bank
110 Galaa Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
DEVBANK                            2643
Cairo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
By /s/ Mohamed Shaker
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
on Account of
Technical Assistant
for SSI and for pro- Payment of Principal
gram for strengthen- on Account of Sub-
ing Management of   Loans and Investments     Total
Borrower (expressed      (expressed in     (expressed in
Date Payment Due    in Dollars)**           dollars**         dollars)**
April 1, 1981           17,000               735,000            752,000
October 1, 1981         17,000               765,000           782,000
April 1, 1982           17,000               795,000            812,000
October 1, 1982         17,000               825,000           842,000
April 1, 1983           17,000               855,000            872,000
October 1, 1983         17,000               885,000           902,000
April 1, 1984           17,000               920,000           937,000
October 1, 1984         17,000               955,000           972,000
April 1, 1985           17,000               990,000          1,007,000
October 1, 1985         17,000             1,025,000          1,042,000
April 1, 1986           17,000             1,065,000          1,082,000
October 1, 1986         17,000             1,105,000          1,122,000
April 1, 1987           17,000             1,145,000         1,162,000
October 1, 1987         17,000             1,185,000         1,202,000
April 1, 1988           17,000             1,230,000          1,247,000
October 1, 1988         17,000             1,275,000         1,292,000
April 1, 1989           17,000             1,325,000         1,342,000
October 1, 1989         17,000             1,375,000         1,392$000
April 1, 1990           17,000             1,425,000         1,442,000
October 1, 1990         17,000             1,480,000         1,497,000
April 1, 1991           17,000             1,535,000         1,552,000
October 1, 1991         17,000             1,590,000         1,607,000
April 1, 1992           17,000             1,650,000         1,667,000
October 1, 1992         17,000             1,710,000         1,727,000
April 1, 1993           17,000             1,775,000         1,792,000
October 1, 1993         17,000             1,840,000         1,857,000
April 1, 1994           17,000             1,910,000         1,927,000
October 1, 1994         17,000             1,980,000         1,997,000
April 1, 1995           17,000             2,055,000         2,072,000
October 1, 1995          7,000             2,095,000         2,102,000
*    Subject to amendment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.08 (a)
of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02),
the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.45%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


