DI__met of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rk,t N.5937-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
February 26, 1986
Population, Health & Nutrition Department
Thh d0cM=n ho a mblcf.d di1ntlkm     may be _d by m*ens ony in the -eufwmme of
1er OdEl igleg.  cs kgt my met uehuiwe be disdhd thw lWod Duk awiz.dzi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00  = CFAF 385
CFAF 1 = US$.0026
CFAF 1 Million  = US$2,597
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
EPI                 Expanded Program of Immunization
FP                  Family Planning
FED                 European Development Fund
(Fonds Europeen de Developpement)
MCH:                Maternal and Child Health
MOPHSA              Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
ONPPC               National Pharmaceutical Company
(Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques
et Chimiques).
PMU                 Project Management Unit
WHO                 World Health Organization
UNFPA               United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
USAID               United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    iii
Definitions .vii
I.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
II.  THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR  . . . . . . .      2
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status  . . . . . .       2
B. The Health System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
C. Health System Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
D. Health Expenditures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
E. Health Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
F.  Nutrition Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
G. Population Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
H. External Assistance.        .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .  7
I. Bank's Role in the Health Sector . . . . . . . . . .       8
III. THE PROJECT   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     8
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
B.  Project Composition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
C. Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
A.  Policy Reform  .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .        9
B. Basic Health and Family Planning Services  . . .      12
1.  Strengthening of Existing Services  . . . .      12
2.  Development of Health Education and Community
Initiative in Health and Nutrition. . . .     16
3.  Health Manpower Development   . . . . . . .      17
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     19
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     22
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .     23
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission that visited
Niger in June 1985. The mission consisted of H. Sederlof (Mission Leader);
D. Vaillancourt (Operations Analyst); S. Foster (Consultant Economist);
R. Meloni (Consultant Public Health Specialist); A. Shaw (Consultant Health
Education and Communications Specialist); and J. Waechter (Consultant Archi-
tect).
rThis document his a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in thepormane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World ank authoiation



- ii -
ANNEXES
Page No.
1   Basic  Data   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
2-1 Comparative Health-Related Indicators  . . . . . . . . . .    27
2-2 Ranking of Reported Diseases  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .    28
2-3 Principal Health Facilities by Department  . . . . . . . . .   29
2-4 Functions and Training of Health Personnel                   30
2-5 Health Staff Allocated by Major Category and Type of
Facility, 1984  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
2-6 Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Health and
Social Affairs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
2-7 Health Coverage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
2-8 Village Health Worker System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
2-9 Health Expenditures, 1984  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
2-10 Recurrent Budget for Health, 1984 . . . . . . . . . .       37
2-11 Two Scenarios for Personnel/Materials Composition of MOPHSA
Recurrent Budget for the Period 1986-90 . . . . . . . . . .   38
2-12 Health Sector Investment Program, 1979-1988 . . . . . . . . .   39
2-13 Structural Adjustment Program: Health Sector Synthesis . . .   40
3-1 Supply of and Demand for Nurses, 1984-1990  . . . . . . . . .   42
3-2 Implementation Schedule for Policy Reform Component .        43
3-3 Sunmuary of Studies to be Financed under the Project . . . . .   44
3-4 Organization Chart for Nutrition Program . . . . . . . . . .   45
3-5 Summary of Fellowships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
4-1 Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    47
4-2 Summary Account by Project Component . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
4-3 Project Components by Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   49
4-4 Breakdown of Summary Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
4-5 Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
4-6 Bases for Estimating Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
4-7 Incremental Recurrent Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
4-8 Incremental Recurrent Costs for Year 6 . . . . . . . . . . .   54
4-9 Annual Incremental Recurrent Costs and Financing at Full
Project Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   58
5-1 Project Coordination Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
5-2 Summary of Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   60
5-3 Implementation Schedule for Strengthening of Basic Health
and Family Planning Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   61
5-4   Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  62
5-5 Disbursement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   63
5-6 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . .   64
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File . . . .   65
MAP: IBRD 19460R



-iii-
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMAURY
Borrower:           Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
Ahount:             SDR 25.1 million (US$27.8 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project
Objectives:         The proposed project will assist the Government in
introducing structural reform in the health
sector. It will do so through studies and reform
programs aimed at improvements in investment planning,
the allocation of recurrent expenditures, cost recovery,
the availability of essential drugs, sector management
and aid coordination. It will also assist the
Governrment to define policies relating to population and
family planning and nutrition. Moreover, in support of
the sectoral reform program, the project will improve
the efficiency of priority health programs: (i)
maternal and child health care including family
planning, control of malaria, diarrhea and other
communicable diseases, (ii) health education and
community initiatives in health and nutrition, and (iii)
training of health personnel.
Benefits:           Through its support of the Government's reform program,
the project will help correct imbalances that have
appeared in recent years in the allocation of resources
in the health sector, ease financial constraints,
increase the availability of essential drugs, reinforce
planning and program execution in MOPHSA and improve
donor coordination. Also, the project will strengthen
priority health programs and services with particular
emphasis on women and young children, the highest risk
group in the population, and on rural services. It will
improve the quality of health services available to
about 3.4 million people. Under the expanded program of
immunization, an estimated 1.2 million children under
five years of age will be vaccinated against the major
childhood diseases by the end of the project
implementation period.



- iv -
Risks:              The project will be the first IDA-financed operation
in the sector.  There is, therefore, a risk of delays
in implementation. However, the Government is strongly
committed to the reform program and anxious to move
ahead with project implementation. Local staff
responsible for project implementation is well
qualified. Moreover, with financing from two PPF
advances, a number of steps have been taken to ensure
expeditious project start-up, and a project
implementation workshop is planned prior to credit
effectiveness.



v
Estimated Project Costs:
Local        Foreign    Total
USS Million
A.  POLICY REFORM
1. Policy Development Studies              -           0.3       0.3
2. Funds for Implementing
Sub-projects                            1.5         1.8       3.3
Sub-Total A.                                    1.5         2.1       3.6
B. STRENGTHENING OF BASIC HEALTH
AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
1. Strengthening of Existing Services      5.3         7.9      13.1
2. Development of Health Education
and Conmmunity Initiative in
Health and Nutrition                    0.7         0.9       1.6
3. Health Manpower Development             1.0         2.3       3.3
Sub-Total B.                                    7.0        11.1      18.1
C.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION      0.4         1.0       1.4
D.  REPAYMENT OF PPF                            0.3         0.7       1.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                            9.2        14.9      24.1
Physical Contingencies                     0.5         0.9       1.4
Price Contingencies                        1.5         2.4       3.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            11.2        18.2      29.3
Note:  Totals may not add up due to rounding.  Estimated project costs
are net of taxes and duties from which the project would be exempt.



- vi -
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign        Total
US$ MillioJ
IDA                      9.6            18.2           27.8
Government               1.5              -             1.5
TOTAL               11.1            18.2           29.3
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87  FY88  FY89   FY90        FY91   FY92   FY93
US$ Million
Annual              2.5    3.9     5.0     5.8      4.8     3.6    2.2
Cumulative          2.5    6.4    11.4   17.2    22.0   25.6   27.8
Rate of Return.            Not applicable
Project Completion Date:   December 31, 1992
Map: IBED 19460R



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate:          The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Death Rate:             The number of deaths among children 1-4 years
of age per 1,000 children in the same age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate:             The number of live births per year per 1,000
people in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:             The number of deaths per year per 1,000 people
in a given year.
Incidence Rate:               The number of persons contracting a disease in
a population during a specified period of
time. Usually expressed as the number
of cases per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate:        The number of deaths of infants under 1 year
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births
during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:     Number of years a newborn child would live
if subject to the mortality risks prevailing
for the cross-section of population at time
of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:      The number of maternal deaths per 100,000
live births in a given year attributable
to pregnancy and childbearing complications.
Morbidity:                    The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Rate of Natural Increase:     Difference between crude birth and crude
death rates; usually expressed as a percentage
of the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate:         The average number of children that would
be born alive to a wonan during her lifetime
if she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific fertility
rates of a given year; serves as an estimate
of average number of children per family.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world with only
modest physical and human resources at its disposal. The environment is
harsh: the population lives in persistent poverty steming from low and
erratic rainfall, poor soils, underdeveloped human resources, population
pressures on limited agricultural lands and sparse infrastructure,
especially a severe lack of safe water. Social indicators are low even by
African standards: life expectancy at birth is only 45 years, the adult
literacy rate is 8%, and the primary school enrollment rate is 23X.
Subsistence farming is the mainstay of the population, 85X of which live in
the countryside, but uranium mining remains the main revenue-earning
activity in the econoWy. For a brief period in the late 1970s, favorable
climatic conditions and a worldwide uranium boom ushered in a period of
strong economic growth. However, the boom cone to an abrupt end in 1980,
heralding a fundamental change towards the worse in the economic prospects
of the country. At the same time, climatic conditions again began to
deteriorate, culminating in the drought that has afflicted the country over
the past two years. A basic data sheet is at Annex 1.
1.02      Due to its severely constrained resources, Niger faces limited
prospects for longer-term growth. Poor budget policies implemented during
the uranium boom have left in their wake structural deficiencies in the
economy such as too rapid growth of personnel expenditures and increasing
imbalances between outlays for personnel and supplies. Financing
constraints, exacerbated by overspending during the uranium boom, highlight
the need to address the underlying structural issues of the economy
including the weak resource base and distorted policies for economic
activity.
1.03      In order to address the economic difficulties, the Government has,
with assistance from the Bank, prepared a structural adjustment program
aimed at restoring and subsequently maintaining minimr acceptable growth
levels in the medium and longer term. The program will include policy
reforms to increase the efficiency of existing investments, improve
resource allocation and develop the resource base of the country. More
specifically, it will require that increased attention be given to efficient
use of the existing capital stock, strict control over the growth and
composition of public expenditures, better mobilization of revenues through
increased cost recovery, and an improved institutional framework for
management at all levels of the economy. This applies to pro-luctive and
social sectors alike. The proposed health project supports structural
adjustment at the sectoral level with the dual objective of more efficient
use of resources and policy reform to increase effectiveness of services.
However, while adjustment policies can be expected to reduce impediments to
higher and more efficient production, they will not by themselves be
sufficient to achieve sustainable long-term growth.  That will require a
concerted development effort to reduce the country's severe real resource
constraints and expand the productive base of the economy, including in
particular an accelerated effort to develop the country's human resources,
combined with an active program to slow population growth. Here again, the
proposed project will provide support to tackle longer term issues of



- 2 -
improving the human resource base through appropriate health programs and
improved maternal and child health and family planning services.
II. THE POPULATION HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status
2.01      Niger's population was estimated at 6.1 million in mid-1983.  With
a total fertility rate of 7.0 and a crude birth rate of 51 per thousand,
fertility is the highest in West Africa. Mortality is also high: the crude
death rate is estimated at 21 per thousand. The annual rate of population
growth is estimated at 3.0X. As fertility is expected to decrease only
slightly, to 6.4 by the year 2000 in the absence of effective population
programs, Niger's population should almost double by that time. This is
likely to maintain GNP per capita growth at its current negative rate while
increasing the costs of human resource development and compromising attempts
at food self-sufficiency. It will be increasingly difficult for Niger to
absorb the entire working age population into its labor force, which will
accelerate urban migration and emigration. Moreover, high fertility and
closely spaced births are serious contributors to Niger's high infant and
maternal mortality rates; and large family size tends to perpetuate poverty
within families.
2.02      The health status of the population in Niger is among the poorest
in West Africa. Life expectancy at birth is a low 45 years. Infant and
child mortality rates are both high at 139 and 28 deaths per 1,000 live
births, respectively, and account for 60% of all deaths in the country
(Annex 2-1). Maternal mortality is also high: nearly 1,000 out of 100,000
pregnancies result in the death of the mother. Preventable and treatable
diseases such as malaria, diarrheal disease, measles, meningitis,
tuberculosis, pneumonia, hepatitis, poliomyelitis and tetanus, combined with
inaccessibility to potable water, poor sanitation and malnutrition, are
responsible for high mortality, especially of infants and children, as well
as for high morbidity (Annex 2-2). Malaria, diarrheal disease and measles
alone account for 60X of recorded deaths, and are particularly severe among
children under five, where they are responsible for 80X of deaths.
Malnutrition, especially of children and nursing mothers, is a serious
problem in spite of theoretical availability of sufficient food in normal
rainfall years, and has gotten worse as a result of the recent drought. A
pre-drought study in Niamey department indicated that 40% of all children
under five suffered from some degree of malnutrition. In the same study,
over 50X of pre-school children and 60% of pregnant mothers were found to be
anemic.
2.03      The reasons for poor health status are numerous:  (a) the
environment is difficult, providing only meager subsistence to a majority of
the population; (b) coverage of health services remains low despite efforts
to expand health infrastructure and a village health worker program;
(c) there is little access to health education and information, and literacy
is low; (d) nutrition and family planning concerns have been inadequately



addressed in public policy and through the health services; and (e)
financial constraints, inadequately trained manpower, and the low
absorptive capacity of the health sector limit the scope for rapid
improvements.
B. The Health System
2.04      Since independence in 1960, Government policy in the health sector
has emphasized primary health care and preventive medicine, and precedence
has been given to the delivery of basic health services to rural areas,
where the great majority of the population lives. Consequently, a network
of rural dispensaries and village health worker teams has evolved to form
the base of the system while also serving as its first entry point. The key
health providers are the nurses that staff the rural dispensaries. They are
responsible for a variety of curative and preventive services, supervision
and in-service training of village health teams, health and nutrition
education, and recordkeeping. Where maternal and child health services are
not available, the dispensary nurse also is responsible for pre- and
post-natal care. Health problems that cannot be resolved at the village or
dispensary level are referred to medical centers, usually located in
provincial capitals, and designed to provide dispensary, maternity and
maternal and child health services and limited in-patient facilities, as
well as supervision of dispensaries. These centers are directed by higher-
level nurses. There is also a separate network of maternities and maternal
and child health care centers, located primarily in urban areas. Two
national hospitals and five departmental hospitals complete the national
referral system (Annex 2-3). Details on the functions and training of
health personnel and their allocation within the public health system may be
found in Annexes 2-4 and 2-5, respectively. Drug procurement and
distribution is handled by the Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques
et Chimiques (ONPPC), a state-owned company, under the jurisdiction of the
Health Ministry, that runs its own network of pharmacies and produces some
drugs. An informal network of ambulatory private drug merchants complements
the ONPPC network. A small private sector operates six clinics, four
maternities and two pharmacies in Niamey.
2.05      The Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (MOPESA) is
responsible for the formulation and implementation of national health policy
and for overall administration, coordination and management of the country's
health system. Operations are decentralized at the departmental level,
where medical officers head the seven departmental directorates of health,
and at the provincial level, where medical centers are located. An
organization chart of MOPHSA is at Annex 2-6.
C.   Health System Performance
2.06      The health system has not responded adequately to the needs of the
population. While hospitals tend to be reasonably well provided for in
terms of staff and supplies, this has not been the case with local level
facilities, which have suffered from relative neglect in recent years, when
they have borne the brunt of budget cuts. As a result, buildings and
technical equipment have deteriorated, drugs are scarce, facilities are
insufficiently staffed, and medical services are limited. Rural dispensary
nurses are only able to fulfill some of their responsibilities; lack of



-4-
supplies and drugs seriously compromise their effectiveness and consequently
the population's confidence in their services. Medical centers, intended to
serve as referral centers for rural dispensaries, are hardly more than
oversized dispensaries themselves from lack of equipment and supplies.
Furthermore, easy access to these facilities is limited to those living
within a 10-km radius (about half the population) (Annex 2-7). The
population beyond this catchment area relies on occasional services, mainly
immunization, provided by a small team of mobile units, and on traditional
practitioners. Until recently, there has been an almost total lack of
in-service training and technical supervision of middle- and lower-level
personnel.
2.07      Drugs are expensive and scarce.  ONPPC imports over 4,000 drugs,
mostly in brand name form and in small quantities, and, consequently, in
many instances, at unnecessarily high prices. Drugs are sold through the
ONPPC network to private middlemen and cor.sumers, and to MOPHSA, which
provides them free of charge in its facilities. However, the drug budget of
MOPHSA has barely increased over the past five years and is no longer able
to supply its facilities adequately. As a result, private expenditures on
drugs at ONPPC outlets have risen sharply as patients often have to buy
their own medicine in order to be treated in public facilities.
2.08      The impact on health status of the village health worker system is
unclear. Village health teams were introduced in Niger as early as 1964,
but it is only recently that coverage has attained some significance,
reaching 46% of villages in 1984 (Annex 2-8).  The teams consist of two to
four villagers, including traditional birth attendants, trained in personal
hygiene, the treating of wounds, the distribution of simple medicines
according to specific symptoms, and referral of more serious problems to
the nearest medical facility. In practice, many village health teams limit
their activities to acting as village pharmacists. The system has suffered
from a lack of supervision, which is essential to its success; and,
recently, the displacement of whole villages due to the drought may have
effectively dissolved many health teams. Moreover, unless village health
teams are allowed to provide more complex services, the system is in danger
of becoming redundant as information on health, hygieine and nutrition
becomes more widespread. USAID, which has been providing the bulk of the
funding for the system, is at present conducting a review of it.
2.09      Major health problems, particularly those affecting women and
children, are addressed through special health programs whose performance
falls short of desirable. Before its recent revision, the malaria control
program strategy of chemoprophylaxis of women and children was neither
sustainable nor cost effective given resource constraints and poor outreach
capacity. Despite the financial support of various aid donors, the
diarrheal disease control program suffers from a lack of proper coordination
and management. Immunization coverage is low (20% at best) and until
recently no design for a national program of immumization existed.
Implementation of the matemnal and child health services is impeded by lack
of equipment and logistical support. Family planning services are not
presently provided by the MCH inetwork.
2.10      The inefficiencies in the health system highlight crit ical
weaknesses in MOPHSA. While higher and middle-level staff in MOPHSA are



-5-
technically competent, administrative and management skills are lacking at
all levels. Moreover, MOPHSA suffers from weak planning, programming and
project analysis, poor information and an ineffective system of monitoring
and evaluation. Consequently, investment decisions often seem to bear
little relationship to sectoral development objectives; also, manpower needs
and recurrent costs have not been considered when planning investments, and
investment and recurrent expenditure budgeting have not reflected MOPHSA
policies.
D. Health Expenditures
2.11      Recurrent public expenditures on health totalled CFAF 6.0 billion,
or 7.5% of total recurrent budget outlays, in 1984 (Annex 2-9). The MOPHSA
recurrent budget accounted for CFAF 4.5 billion, while the remainder, mainly
for medical evacuations and training of doctors, came out of other titles of
the government budget (Annex 2-10).
2.12      Personnei costs have beei. steadily increasing over the past few
years, reflecting the effects of ambitious training programs for paramedical
staff and of a policy of Government guaranteed employment for all graduates
into the health system. To accommodate the growth in personnel
expenditures, spending on supplies has been curtailed, adversely affecting
the efficient delivery of services and causing rapid deterioration in
existing infrastructure. Personnel costs represented 45% of MOPHSA
recurrent expenditure in 1979 as compared with 52% of the 1985 budget, and
would consume 64% of the projected 1990 budget if Government policy were to
remain unchanged (Annex 2-11). At the same time, private expenditures for
health services have been increasing, as the mainly free-of-charge public
facilities have not been able to provide the necessary services. Private
expenditures now total about half of public recurrent expenditures; they are
mostly for drugs and services purchased from ONPPC and the private
facilities.
2.13      Despite stated Government policy to the contrary, the balance of
recurrent health expenditures has in recent years g:adually shifted towards
urban hospitals and medical evacuations, resulting in an undesirably strong
emphasis on curative, rather than preventive, health care, catering to a
small urban minority. Some 50% of the budget allocation for personnel and
supplies are for hospitals, 40% for provincial-level medical facilities, and
only 10% for rural dispensaries. This is despite the fact that over 10
million consultations are held every year in dispensaries and provincial
level facilities, compared with 350,000 hospital admissions. The investment
budget has also shown a marked trend towards the urban and hospital sector,
while the major "investment" in the rural sector has cnsisted of financing
the operating costs of village health worker tes  (Annex 2-12).  A major
share of health expenditures in Niger, including recurrent expenditures, is
financed by external assistance (para. 2.1-).
E. Health Policy
2.14      The Government remains committed to a policy of primary health
care and preventive medicine, primarily aimed at rural areas. Emphasis is
given to expanding coverage and improving the quality of health services, in
general, and to serving the most vulnerable segments of the population, in



- 6 -
particular. The maternal and child health strategy extends beyond the
provision of typical MCH services to include social and economic activities
such as literacy program, income generating opportunities for women, home
economics instruction and other health and nutrition education activities.
The Government is aware of the imbalances that have appeared in the sector
over the past few years, in particular between (i) curative and preventive
health care; (ii) urban and rural health services; and (iii) outlays for
personnel and supplies (see paras. 2.11 - 2.13), and the need to correct
them if the sector is to contribute to the country's development effort in
an efficient and effective manner. Moreover, as budget resources can be
expected to remain severely constrained for the foreseable future,
successful adjustment in the sector will depend on the Government's ability
to control growth in expenditures and to match more appropriately objectives
witn cost effective use of resources in the choice, design and
implementation of projects and programs. Under the structural adjustment
program that the Government is implementing with the assistance of the Bank,
a health sector strategy that begins to address these imbalances has been
formulated and constitutes a part of the Government's Letter of Development
Policy relating to the Structural Adjustment Credit that was recently
approved by the Executive Directors (Annex 2-13). The strategy, which is
described in paras. 3.03 to 3.09, is a first attempt to translate sector
objectives into efficient and balanced programs that would be appropriately
reflected in recurrent and investment expenditures, broaden the revenue base
through new and improved cost recovery measures, and build up an adequate
institutional capability to plan and enforce proper policies and programs
and effectively monitor investments and oper-tions in the sector. Through
the proposed project the Association will assist the Government in
formulating and implementing specific policies.
F. Nutrition Policy
2.15      While the Government acknowledges that malnutrition is a major
health problem in Niger, data on the extent and distribution of nutritional
deficiencies in the country have not been collected systematically, and the
problem of malnutrition and its determinants is not well understood. This
contributes to the absence oi any policy or national program to improve
nutritional status. Some attention is being accorded, however, to nutrition
education and recuperation of malnourished children; and a modest, but
successful nutrition pilot project is being run in about 60 villages in 3
provinces by the Government with the help of UNICEF and WHO (para. 3.25).
G. Population Policy
2.16      Although extremely high, the Niger Government has for the most
part regarded its population growth rate as acceptable. Moreover, the idea
of limiting family size or reducing the growth rate has been opposed by most
Nigerien officials, as well as by religious authorities. Provision of
family planning services for maternal and child health reasons has been
allowed, but these services have never been widely available or actively
promoted. However, family planning services are gradually becoming more
available in Niamey, where a National Family Health Center opened in
November 1984. The center, operating with assistance from UNFPA, provides
limited family planning services for the population in and around Niamey,



- 7 -
and conducts research and training in maternal and child health care and
family planning, infertility and sterility problems, and demography.
2.17      Recently, the Government has become more concerned about
population growth, as national economic and financial difficulties have
deepened and self-sufficiency in food production, a top-order national
priority, appears increasingly difficult to achieve in the future. Early in
1985 the Government reversed its position on the population issue and now
appears to be seriously considering a policy to check population growth and
reduce maternal and infant mortality. The Government is also in favor of
establishing a national family planning commission; improving the collection
and analysis of socio-demographic data; introducing legislation on family
planning including related medical practices and family relations; and
training health staff in maternal and infant health care, including family
planning. USAID and UNFPA are assisting the Government in elaborating all
of these aspects with a view to developing a national population policy.
Under USAID financing, a number of studies are underway that will help
define the parameters of such a policy.
2.18      Despite an official change of position described above, it is
still uncertain if a more general appreciation of the issue has emerged.
Religious opposition may remain strong. Moreover, formidable barriers
remain to the rapid expansion of family planning services: access to
contraceptives is limited to married women who obtain their husbands
consent; and knowledge of contraceptives and particularly of their health
benefits is limited. There clearly seems to be a demand, however, for these
services. Traditional birth control is reputed to be widely practiced, and
the response to the opening of the above-mentioned center has been lively
with over 2,000 new acceptors for contraceptives between November 1984 and
June 1985. The center plans to expand provision of family planning services
to maternities and maternal and child health centers around Niamey over the
next 12 months, and training of midwives in family planning methods is
underway.
H. External Assistance
2.19      In 1984, external assistance to the health sector amounted to
US$4.5 million (US$0.72 per capita). Among multilateral donors, WHO
provides technical support and training to MOPHSA; UNICEF programs focus on
drug procurement, immunizations, nutrition and rural health; and UNFPA
supports family planning activities. The main bilateral donors are: FED
with a program to expand the health network; France, which provides
physicians, and USAID, which finances the village health worker program and
planning and management assistance (para. 3.07). A number of other donors
are active, providing training, scholarships, technical assistance and
equipment. Non-governmental organizations support basic health services in
the countryside. External assistance is relatively uncoordinated, and more
effective aid coordination will become necessary to channel external funds
to priority programs and projects consistent with the sectoral adjustment
effort.



I. Bank's Role in the Health Sector
2.20      The proposed project will be the first IDA-financed project in the
health sector in Niger. IDA intervention in the sector is justified on
several grounds. First, human resource development is key to long-term
development in Niger and should be an important element of any strategy that
aims at improving the country's very limited potential. A healthier
population is a part of such a strategy. Second, through its structural
adjustment dialogue, the Association has assisted the Government in
beginning to formulate a coherent health sector strategy. The project will
be the principal vehicle to assist the Government in implementing structural
reform within the health sector and in developing population and nutrition
policies. Third, while external funding has been relatively abundant in the
sector, it is uncoordinated and leaves some priority areas and policy issues
uncovered. Through the project, the Association will encourage aid
coordination and investment planning, in support of an overall sector
strategy, and will complement donor financing through its support of
efficiency improvements in priority programs.
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives
3.01      The proposed project will support measures to improve overall
efficiency and effectiveness in the health sector. It will help the
Government implement its reform program in the sector through studies and
programs aimed at improving investment planning, the allocation of recurrent
expenditures, cost recovery, the availability of essential drugs, management
and aid coordination. It will also assist the Government to develop
policies related to population and family planning, and nutrition. In
support of the reform program, the project will strengthen priority health
programs and services: (i) maternal and child health care including control
of malaria, communicable diseases and diarrhea, family planning and
nutrition, (ii) health, hygiene and nutrition education and community initi-
atives in health and nutrition, and (iii) training of health personnel.
B.   Project Composition
3.02        The proposed project will support:
A. Policy Reform in the Health Sector through:
1. The provision of 20 months of technical assistance
to undertake studies to develop health sector policy
reform aimed at strengthening financial and operational
management, improving basic health services, increasing
cost recovery and improving availability of essential
drugs and the development of population and nutrition
policy, based on operational experience gained from
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the project;



- 9 -
2. The funding of proposals for implementing policies
emanating from the above-mentioned studies or
operational experience;
B. Basic Health and Family Planning Services
1. Strengthening of ExistinD Services through:
Rehabilitation and re-equipment of local level
facilities and technical assistance to strengthen the
syste, of maintenance of facilities; and the provision
of drugs, equipment, materials, technical assistance,
training and funding for incremental operating costs to
strengthen priority health programs, including control
of malaria, diarrhea and comunicable diseases, and
maternal and child health care, including family
planning;
2. Development of Health Education and Community
Initiative in Health and Nutrition through:
The provision of equipment, materials, technical
assistance, training and funding for incremental
operating costs, to develop a health education program
and to extend ongoing pilot community nutrition
activities to an additional 3 provinces;
3. Health Manpower Development through:
The provision of equipment, materials, technical
assistance, fellowships, and funding for incremental
operating costs to improve basic training, to support a
program of regular in-service training and field
supervision of paramedical staff, and to train
specialists needed for certain health programs.
C.   Detailed Features
A. Policy Reform
3.03     Under the proposed project, the Bank will assist the Government in
refining and implementing its health sector strategy (para. 2.14). The
project will finance studies and support reform measures related to: (i)
investment and recurrent expenditures; (ii) cost recovery; (iii) avail-
ability of essential drugs; and (iv) sector management, including aid
coordination. The project will also support development of population and
nutrition policies.
3.04     Investment and Recurrent Expenditures.  Under the Government's
structural adjustment program, the share of the health sector in the
investment program is projected to increase substantially, from 1.7X in
1984/85 to 4% in 1987/88, reflecting the increased importance attached to



- 10 -
human resource development. The composition of the investment program for
the health sector has already been adjusted to better reflect sector
objectives; the emphasis will be on improving coverage and quality of health
care services in rural areas, and on rehabilitation, while limiting
investments in physical facilities, including hospitals. Likewise, the
Government has already taken decisions on and pinpointed priority areas for
action with regard to the recurrent budget that will improve health sector
efficiency and effectiveness. Priority will be given to staffing, equipping
and maintenance of facilities in rural areas. The growth in the wage bill
-ill be curtailed to ensure the availability of funds for materials and
supplies. In line with the new policy of matching the training of new
paramedical staff with the growth in the service network, new entries into
nursing schools have been reduced in 1985/86 from an initially programmed
140 to only 20 students. This reduction in student intake will still more
than cover demand for nurses through 1990 (Annex 3-1). Now, instead of a
10% annual increase in MOPHSA sector wage bill over the next five years,
this reduction of student intake will cause the MOPHSA wage bill to grow at
a slightly lower rate than that of MOPHSA recurrent expenditures and the
share of personnel costs in the recurrent budget to stabilize at 55% thus
arresting a further deterioration of the materials/supplies share of the
health budget. To alleviate pressures on the recurrent budget, the project
will support improvements in the current maintenance system for health
facilities (para. 3.12); simple maintenance functions will be gradually
transferred to beneficiaries, and the feasibility of transferring other
central budget expenditures to local authorities will be examined. The
system of medical evacuations abroad will be overhauled; beneficiary partic-
ipation in the costs of these evacuations has already been introduced, which
is expected to result in a reduction in health subsidies of about CFAF 200
million. A study will be financed under the project to examine the cost
effectiveness of different alternatives for the use of the university
hospital facilities. To ensure that all of these orientations do in fact
materialize, the Government confirmed during negotiations that it will
review annually with the Association (i) all investment expenditures made in
the health sector in the previous year and those proposed for the coming
three years, as part of the rolling public investment program, with
particular attention being given to recurrent cost implications; and (ii)
the allocation of recurrent budget and manpower resources with regard to its
support of health sector strategy. Sector management studies to be financed
under the project (para. 3.07) will review cost effectiveness of services
and propose means to improve financial management, both of which will
facilitate appropriate resource allocation.
3.05       Cost Recovery.  Under the reform program, cost recovery for
Government services will be gradually improved, taking into account the
ability of beneficiaries to pay, the collection costs and the type of user
charge most appropriate for the service provided. This will allow a
continuation and expansion of R number of basic services for the majority of
the population, despite increasing budgetary constraints. In recognition of
the need for mobilization of additional resources for the health sector, the
Government has already enforced a stricter application of the hospital fee
system and is seeking ways to initiate cost recovery at the local level.
The proposed project will support these Government initiatives, initially,



- 11 -
by financing studies to (i) improve fee collection in national and
departmental hospitals and (ii) develop appropriate cost recovery measures
for basic health services. Subsequently, the project will provide the
necessary funds to begin to implement cost recovery measures (para. 3.09).
3.06       Essential Drugs.  In an effort to lower costs and increase
availability of essential drugs (para. 2.07), the Government has drawn up an
essential drugs list based on a determination of needs by level of facility.
Furthermore, it h.s elaborated an essential drugs policy, which is at the
early stages of implementation. The project is ready to finance any
assistance needed to implement this policy, in particular to help improve
the procurement process and educate drug prescribers and the population at
large about essential drugs. The project will also finance a feasibility
study on alternative ways to extend the drug distribution system.
3.07       Sector Management.  As part of the adjustment strategy for the
health sector, the analytical and managerial capabilities of the MOPHSA will
be strengthened through a program of institutional development. Under the
proposed project, studies will be financed which would examine ways to
achieve improvements in (i) hospital management; (ii) financial management;
and (iii) cost effectiveness of basic health services and operations. The
staff training program to be supported under the project (para. 3.28) will
place particular emphasis on developing skills in management, econamicS and
statistical techniques in line with a policy which emphasizes training and
upgrading of personnel in service. Efforts to improve management in MOPHSA
are underway. MOPHSA has defined functions, staffing and financial require-
ments for each level of facility, and has drawn up job descriptions for each
level of staff. In addition, with USAID assistance, MOPHSA has undertaken a
staff inventory, and it has begun a program to develop a planning, monitor-
ing and evaluation capability within MOPHSA, including development of
management information, financial control and human resource management
systems. The Bank is collaborating closely with USAID in this endeavor: the
monitoring and evaluation systems that are being introduced in the project
will be integrated into the general monitoring and evaluation framework, and
funding will be available under the IDA credit to support the MOPHSA/USAID
management program, if necessary. Furthiermore, to ensure that the Govern-
ment, the Association and all other donors coordinate their efforts around a
commonly understood sectoral adjustment policy, the Government confirmed
during negotiations that it will organize annual meetings of all aid agen-
cies participating in the financing of health sector activities in Niger.
3.08       Development of Population and Nutrition Policies.   Bank efforts
to assist in the development of a population policy will be advanced through
a project component, which, as a complement to USAID/UNFPA assistance (para.
2.17), is designed to satisfy unmet demand for family planning services
outside of Niamey and to support family planning program development and
implementation (para. 3.20). The Bank will collaborate closely with UNFPA
and USAID in their efforts to assist the Government in developing a national
population policy. To this effect, and in view: of the fact that the program
is at its earliest development stages, funds have been set aside under the
project to test and support implementation of any new ideas or initiatives
in family planning service delivery which might emerge as a result of



- 12 -
operational experience gained during the course of project implementation
and which might lead to program refinement and policy development. A
similar approach will be taken to develop a nutrition policy; pilot
nutrition activities at the community level and the development of a
nutrition surveillance system, both of which will be supported under the
project (paras. 3.25-3.26), are expected to lead to policy dialogue and the
elaboration of a national policy on nutrition.
3.09       The studies to be financed under this component will be executed
over a three-year period and their recommendations will be translated into
plans of action (Annex 3-2 and Annex 3-3). The project will finance 20
months of technical assistance to undertake these studies. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that it will elaborate plans
of action based on study results in consultation with the Association
according to a specified timetable. A sum of US$3.5 million has been
earmarked under the project to begin to implement the plans of action based
on the findings of these studies or on operational experience derived from
the project; this assistance will focus particularly on improved cost
effectiveness of basic health services, financial management, hospital
management, cost recovery at the hospital and peripheral levels, essential
drugs policy, drug distribution, development of population and family
planning policies and activities, nutrition policy development and malaria
vector control (para. 3.16). Disbursement of these funds will be
conditional upon the Association's approval of the plans of action. The
Association will appraise each plan of action in accordance with the
following criteria: (a) its relationship to the Government's health policy
and investment programs; (b) its potential impact; and (c) its financial
viability and the availability of resources to support incremental operating
costs. The agreement to undertake proposed activities will be in the form
of a simple exchange of letters between the Association and MOPHSA.
B. Basic Health and Family Planning Services
3.10       In support of the Government's health sector reform program and
its policy orientation towards the development af rural services and
preventive medicine, the project will improve tte efficiency, effectiveness
and coverage of priority programs and services, particularly those aimed at
improving maternal and child health, including family planning, and will
make a particular effort to strengthen outreach of these services. It will
also develop a far reaching health education program and support health- and
nutrition-related community initiatives, both of which should lead to more
effective utilization of health services by the population. The project
will place particular emphasis on management and administration of services
and programs; monitoring and evaluation systems will be introduced into all
the programs financed under the project and will be integrated into the
overall health management information system that is being developed with
USAID assistance (para. 3.07).
1. Strengthening of Existing Services
3.11        The focus of project intervention under this component is on
local level health facilities, which should provide basic primary health



- 13 -
care services (control of malaria, diarrhea, and communicable diseases and
maternal and child health care) and related outreach services. These
represent the most cost-effective way of extending essential services to the
greatest number of beneficiaries in urban and rural areas.
3.12      As the MOPHSA budget has become increasingly constrained,
maintenance of health facilities has suffered, and large parts of the
existing health network, especially older facilities, are in urgent need of
repair and refurbishment. Facility design has, moreover, proven to be
inappropriate to efficient use and maintenance of facilities. The project
will finance necessary repairs and re-equipping of existing medical centers
and dispensaries. A rehabilitation program has already been drawn up by the
Government. Procedures for implementation of works and technical and
financial controls exist that are acceptable to the Bank. To improve
maintenance performance in the future, the project will provide four months
of technical assistance to design efficient, low-cost maintenance, health
facilities, and two months of technical assistance to strengthen the
existing maintenance system. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that it will present to the Association a plan of action for the
strengtheaing of the maintenance system and new designs by January 31,
1987.
3.13      The project will assist in strengthening of priority programs
which address the most urgent health problems affecting women and young
children, the highest risk group in the population. These programs include
control of malaria, diarrhea and communicable diseases and maternal and
child health care, including family planning. Furthermore, the project will
foster integration of these programs into a coordinated primary health care
approach to ensure the most cost effective delivery of services. Project
interventions to this effect will complement USAID efforts to streamline
and integrate services as a part of its management assistance to MOPHSA
(para. 3.07). Project assistance to each of the programs is described
below.
3.14     Malaria Control.  To enhance its efforts to reduce the incidence
of malaria in Niger, the Government has designed a national malaria control
program with assistance from WHO which essentially is a rationalization of
already ongoing activities. The program supports a policy of chemotherapy
with particular focus on children, limiting chemoprophylaxis to pregnant
women. Such a policy is efficient given operational, logistical and
financial constraints; it will permit children to develop natural immunities
and will retard evolution of chloroquine-resirtant strains of malaria. The
drug requirements will be reduced, dosages will be standarized and
chloroquine will be made available in sufficient quantity to all levels of
health care.  The program also includes treatment, surveillance of malaria
incidence and patterns, drug resistance monitoring, enhanced diagnostic
capacity, staff training and community education. Activities will be fully
integrated into existing health structures. A program coordinator, trained
in malaria control under a WHO grant, has been appointed to manage the
program.



- 14 -
3.15      In support of the program, the project will provide the
following: (i) an initial stock of chloroquine that will cover the estimsted
needs of the population for one year; replenishment of the chloroquine stock
(about CFAF 26 million annually) will be secured through revenues from its
sale; (ii) laboratory equipment to improve diagnostic capacity in three
selected medical centers; (iii) fellowships to train one entomologist and
one sanitary engineer for program implementation; (iv) support for comunity
education and staff training in malaria under the respective components
(paras. 3.22 and 3.28); and (v) logistical support for supervision and
monitoring of activities. As a condition of effectiveness the Government
will, through the intermediary of ONPPC, establish an account in a
commercial bank to operate the revolving fund for the replenishment of
chloroquine as described in (i) above. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that all proceeds from the sale of chloroquine will be
deposited in this fund.
3.16      The project will finance two months of technical assistance to
determine the feasibility of a malaria vector control program which is being
considered by the Government. While the project would be prepared to
support its implementation if justified, it is expected that such a program
will not be deemed feasible in the Sahelian context of Niger.
3.17     Diarrheal Disease Control.  The Government has, with WHO
assistance, designed a national policy to reduce mortality from diarrheal
disease. The policy includes the introduction of oral rehydration
techniques, training of health personnel in diarrheal disease control and
systematic community education. A national committee to combat diarrheal
disease has been formed -  a de facto program management unit headed by the
Director of Health Services -  and activities have begun on a pilot basis in
one department.  Financing of program activities is covered by various aid
donors (Belgium, Holland, USAID, WHO and UNICEF) with the important
exception of program management and administration which none of the donors
is willing to finance. Such a financing gap will jeopardize the efficient
operations of a well conceived and essential program. The project will,
therefore, support technical assistance to develop program monitoring and
evaluation capability (2 months) and to assist in periodic program
evaluation (5 months) and logistical support to the management unit.
Program activities will be reinforced through this project's health
education and training components (paras. 3.22 and 3.28).
3.18     Expanded Program of Immunmization (EPI).  The Government has, with
USAID and WHO assistance, designed an expanded program of immunization,
which will be an integral part of the preventive emphasis of Niger's health
care strategy. The program is aimed at protecting children under five
against measles. pertussis, poliomyelitis, diphtheria, tetanus and
tuberculosis; it is complemented by immunization of children up to 15
against yellow fever. Pregnant women will be vaccinated against tetanus.
M0PHSA will adopt a three-pronged approach, endorsed by WHO, to implement
the program: (a) vaccinations would be administered at fixed health facil-
ities; (b) fixed facilities would provide outreach services to the
population within a 15-km radiums of the facility; and (c) the population
outside the 15-km radius would be served by means of mobile units. The



- 15 -
mobile units will provide other outreach services, including the promotion
of village-level health and nutrition activities. Project assistance to the
program will provide MOPHSA with its first opportunity to implement the
program on a nationwide basis. It was agreed during negotiations that
program progress will be closely monitored. The Government will prepare and
submit to the Association, by September 1 of each year, an evaluation of the
previous year's campaign, including coverage achieved, and a proposed target
coverage for the following year based on that evaluation. IDA agreement to
the annual target coverage proposal would be a condition of disbursement of
funds to purchase vaccines that year. The project will provide vaccines,
cold chain and other technical equipment, storage facilities, vehicles,
materials, staff training, and will also finance incremental operating
costs. Furthermore, the project will finance 6 months of technical
assistance for program monitoring and evaluation and a morbidity and
mortality study of EPI target diseases to provide initial base data.
3.19      Maternal and Child Health (NCR) Services.  The approach to
maternal and child health services in Niger incorporates the social as well
as physical well-being of women, transcending typical health services to
include literacy programs and income generation opportunities (sewing
classes and facilities) for women, home economics instruction and other
health and nutrition education activities. This approach is both innovative
and potentially very effective and it will be actively supported and
developed under the project. Specifically, the project will provide small
vehicles and motorbicycles and finance operating expenses for village
consultations and home visits. Baby scales will be provided to all MCH
facilities and sewing machines and accessories will be purchased for all MCH
centers. MCH activities will be reinforced through the project's health
education (which will target women's groups, literacy programs and MCH
centers), community initiative and training components, all of which place
particular emphasis on this target group.
3.20      Family Planning (FP). The project will support the introduction
and integration of family planning activities into the broader context of
NCH services, as described above.  It will expand the provision of family
planning services beyond Niamey to maternities and MCH centers nationwide.
All 7 departments will be provided with gynecological equipment and
contraceptives; specialized training will be provided for 3 gynecologists, 3
pediatricism and 5 family health/FP specialists who will be responsible for
program development, training other staff and providing a referral
capability for FP and other MCH complications. FP education will be
provided for under the project's health education component (para. 3.22).
Nine months of technical assistance will be financed for a study on current
acceptance of family planning in 3 departments to refine program
development. These efforts will complement UNFPA/USAID interventions which
are focused primarily on research, training, the provision of services in
and around Niamey and palicy development (para. 2.17). It is expected that
operational experience gained from program implementation will lead to
further program development and refinement, and will enhance policy
dialogue. In this respect, close collaboration will be maintained with
UNFPA and USAID in their efforts to assist the Government in defining a



- 16 -
national population policy. Furthermore, the project is ready to finance,
through its special fund (para. 3.09), any initiative in support of program
and policy development.
3.21     Primary responsibility for execution of the MCH/FP component will
be shared between the MOPHSA Directorate of Maternal and Child Health and
Social Affairs and the National Center for Family Health. Adequate
mechanisms for coordination already exist and their history of cooperation
has been excellent to date.
2. Development of Health Education and Community Initiative
in Health and Nutrition
3.22      Health Education.  Currently very little is being done in the
field of health education in Niger even though this is considered to be a
priority area by MOPHSA. To improve the situation, the project will assist
MOPHSA in developing a well structured health education program in support
of the Government's primary health care strategy. The program will
emphasize central themes - malaria control, diarrheal disease and
immunnization programs, maternal and child health care and family planning,
nutrition and personal hygiene. It is designed to make full use of the very
extensive radio and television network in Niger, which reaches even remote
villages, of existing health facilities, and of community and youth groups.
Films, radio and television programs and slide shows on basic health,
nutrition and family planning themes will be produced, and posters and
literature on health will be prepared. The materials will be introduced
in functional literacy programs, primary and secondary schools and the
paramedical schools, where health education skills will be incorporated into
the curricula; the departmental directorates of health will receive
materials for use in health facilities, by mobile units, and by local and
village-level organizations for integration into their regular activities.
Schools and directorates will be provided with technical equipment, and
staff will be trained in their use. To ensure the effectiveness and
appropriateness of the various productions, field research and tests will be
undertaken prior to preparation and dissemination of materials- and
systematic feedback from the field will help improve focus of the health
education messages on specific target groups.
3.23     The Health Education Division in the Directorate of Training,
Health Education and Nutrition will be in charge of the component.
Previously a unit, it has recently been upgraded to divisional status, and
its staffing is being strengthened. A qualified division chief will be
appointed, and four new staff will be brought in, three with training in
public health, and one technician, to be trained in audio-visual equipment
maintenance and repair under the project. Health education officers,
trained in communications, will be appointed to each of the seven depart-
mental directorates of health to promote the use of health education
materials.
3.24      The Health Education Division will receive technical support in
the preparation of education materials from other government agencies,
notably the Ministry of Information, which is well qualified to prepare
audio-visual material. The total cost of production of health education
materials, including equipment investment, estimated at $0.5 million, will



- 17 -
be borne by the project, as will be incremental operating costs. The
project will, moreover, provide one month of technical assistance to help
finalize a work program for the division and develop working methods; six
months for a social scientist for field studies; and four months per year of
the services of a media specialist over the life of the project. The
project will also finance overseas training and study tours for division
staff and for the health education officers.
3.25      Community Initiative and Nutrition Policy Development.  In its
effort to assist the Government to develop a national nutrition policy and
to develop comunity responsibility for its own health, the project will
support (i) the extension, to an additional 3 geographically dispersed
provinces (about 60 villages), of an ongoing Niger/WHO/UNICEF pilot project
for village-level nutrition improvement; and (ii) the development of a
nutrition surveillance system. The Niger/WHO/UNICEF project, which has been
in operation for about one year, has proven to be a successful means of
eliciting villagers' (particularly women's) interest and participation in
their own wellbeing.  Under the project's scheme interested villagers
receive financial and technical support to undertake self help activities
such as small-scale food production, storage and marketing, water supply and
sanitation, and health and nutrition education. Interested villages are
encouraged to choose one or two activities initially, but have the option to
undertake additional ones later. This component will have close links with
the health education component as it will allow villagers the opportunity to
put health and nutrition messages and heightened awareness into practice.
It is expected that the combined effects of these two components could lead
to more effective utilization of health services.
3.26      The project will finance the salaries of 6 trained staff to be
based at the provincial level (2 per province), who will function as
resource people and initiate contact with villages. It will also provide
supplemental equipment and logistical support to provincial level technical
services which will provide villages with the technical support they need to
execute activities. The project will finance equipment and materials for
village projects, but the villages will be financially responsible for
maintenance and other operating costs once initiatives are in operation.
The project will also finance 3 months of technical assistance to help
MOPESA integrate the development of a nutrition surveillance system into the
health information system being developed with USAID assistance (para.
3.07). During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it will
present to the Association for its approval a nutrition surveillance system
by March 31, 1987, and begin its implementation according to an agreed
timetable.
3.27      Day-to-day management and supervision of this component at the
central level will be the responsibility of the program coordinator, already
in place for the ongoing program. An interministerial coordination
committee ensures cooperation of technical services. Annex 3-4 provides
details of the administrative arrangements.
3. Health Manpower Development
3.28      Although adequately trained health personnel is essential to the
effective delivery of basic health care services, training programs in Niger



- 18 -
have not kept pace with evolving priorities in the health sector, and
in-service training and supervision of MOPHSA staff have been practically
non-existent. Recently, however, the Government has begun to address these
deficiencies. Curricula in paramedical schools have been revised to address
current priorities and needs. The In-Service Training Division has been
strengthened and in-service training programs have been drawn up. These
training programs will take place at departmental levels and be carried out
by departmental training teams. The project will permit the Government to
begin implementation of its in-service training programs. It will provide 4
months of technical assistance to support implementation and program
evaluation. It will support the training of trainers in order to set up the
departmental training teams, and will provide training materials, logistical
support and operating costs to enable the teams to carry out the programs.
In-service training sessions would for the most part be bi-annual and would
include all levels of staff. Training programs emphasize public health
management, administration of basic care and maternal and child health care,
including nutrition, family planning and health education, malaria control,
immunization and oral rehydration therapy. By the end of the five-year
project life, all MOPHSA paramedical staff will have had at least two
in-service training cycles. The In-Service Training Division will prepare a
detailed in-service training program annually.
3.29      An essential complement to a good in-service training program is a
program of regular supervision that provides technical support and guidance
to field staff. The Government is well aware of the deficiencies in past
field supervision, and considers the departmental training teams well placed
to provide such technical support. During negotiations the Government
agreed to submit a program for supervising field staff by the end of
December 1986. Such a program could be eligible for financing under the
project's special fund for implementing sub-projects (para. 3.09).
3.30      The project will finance a number of fellowships for advanced
specialized training in skills directly related to implementation of the
various programs under the project. They are detailed in AnDex 3-5. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to submit annual training plans and
study tour and fellowship proposals for review and approval by the
Association no later than July 31 of each year.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.3 million
equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of
US$18.5 million, or 62% of total project cost. The project will be financed
by IDA (US$27.8 million, or 95' of total project cost) and the Government
(US$1.5 million, representing about 40X of incremental salaries and
operatings costs including those associated with project management). The
cost estimates and the financing plan are summarized in the Credit and
Project Summary. The detailed project costs are given in Annexes 4-1
through 4-4. the financing plan in Annex 4-5, and the bases for estimating
project costs in Annex 4-6.



- 19 -
4.02      When fully developed, the project will require annual incremental
budgetary outlays on the order of CFAF 484 million (US$ 1.3 million) in
constant 1985 prices. A detailed breakdown of these incremental recurrent
costs are presented in Annexes 4-7 and 4-8 and their financing in Annex
4-9. This amount represents an increment of 10.1% over the 1985 recurrent
health budget. To date many vaccines have been financed by the donor
community on a grant basis and it is assumed that this will continue to be
the case, which will reduce domestic funding requireunts by CFAF 129
million. The gross balance of project incremental recurrent costs to be
borne by the Government will therefore amount to to CFAF 355 million
(US$923,000), or 7.4X of the 1985 health recurrent budget. Improvements in
cost recovery from hospitals and local facilities are estimated to generate
approximately CFAF 200 million and CFAF 100 million, respectively. This
combined with cost recovery of chloroquine estimated at CFAF 26 million
annually (para. 3.15) and savings of CFAF 200 million to be achieved through
overhaul of medical evacuations (para. 3.04), will amount to CFAF 526
million in additional budgetary resources per year, far exceeding project
incremental recurrent costs and resulting in a net savings in Government
recurrent expenditures. The health project may therefore result in
substantial net savings in recurrent expenditures for the Government.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Preparation.  Two advances under the Project Preparation Facility,
totalling US$1.0 million, have been approved by IDA in August 1983 and
February 1986, respectively, to finance the salaries and operating costs of
a project preparation team; renovation and equipment of an office to house
the preparation team, and eventually, a project management unit; technical
assistance to complete preparation of the various project components; study
tours, training, fellowships and seminars for national staff directly
related to project implementation; and the financing of start-up activities.
5.02      The recruitment of local staff needed to strengthen MOPHSA
services is underway. A rehabilitation program for health facilities has
been prepared by the Government. Terms of reference for the policy reform
studies to be financed under the project were agreed upon at negotiations.
5.03      Management.  The Ministry of Plan will be responsible for
implementation of the policy reform component in collaboration with MOPHSA.
MOPHSA will implement the basic health and family planning services
component with assistance from the Ministries of Education and Public Works
and others, as appropriate (Annex 5-1). Adequate procedures for
collaboration between these ministries exist.
5.04      The basic health and family planning services component will be
integrated into existing services of the MOPHSA. These services will be
appropriately strengthened with local staff and technical assistance as
described in Chapter III. Particular attention will be paid to minimizing
the need for incremental staff. The capabilities of health facilities to
execute the programs financed under the project will be strengthened
through: (i) streamlining and functional integration of programs into a
cost effective basic health care approach; (ii) appropriate training; and



- 20 -
(iii) the study and subsequent implementation of policies to improve
mnagement and cost effectiveness of services. Furthermore, the combined
effects of USArD planning and management assistance and project support of
monitoring and evaluation of programs should reinforce implementation
capability.
5.05      A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be attached to the Office of
the Minister of Public Health and Social Affairs. It will be responsible
for overall coordination of project activities, assistance in the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets, procurement of goods,
processing of credit withdrawal applications and consolidation of project
progress reports. The PMU will consist of a director, an administrator and
an accountant, as well as support staff. It will be assisted by a
full-time, internationally recruited specialist in project management and
implementation, and 8 months of short-term technical assistance to set up a
project accounting system, audit project accounts and assist in
procurement. The project organization scheme is set out in Annex 5-1. The
establishment and adequate staffing of the PMU and the setting up of a
project accounting system is a condition of effectiveness.
5.06      The project will provide a total of 146 months of technical
assistance, which would be recruited in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Arrangements to ensure proper recruitment and management of technical
assistance, through the employment of the services of a consulting firm,
were agreed on during negotiations. The technical assistance is summarized
in Annex 5-2.
5.07      The project is expected to be implemented over a period of five
and one half years (Annex 5-3). Project copletion is estimated for
December 31, 1992, however, in accordance with a seven-year disbursement
profile (para. 5.10).
5.08      Procurement.  Because of their relatively small size and wide
dispersion in remote areas, civil works contracts, all of which would be for
renovation of local health facilities, would be awarded following local
competitive bidding (LCB) according to procedures acceptable to the
Association. However, for individual civil works contracts valued under
CFAF 5 million (about US$13,000 equivalent), prudent local shopping
procedures acceptable to the Association would be applied.  The aggregate
amount of the above exceptions is not expected to exceed US$0.6 million
equivalent. Contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, drugs
and vaccines would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to procedures acceptable to the Association. Exceptions to ICB
would be for (i) contracts with a value of less than US$75,000 equivalent,
each of which would be awarded after LCB according to procedures acceptable
to the Association; and (ii) small value items costing less than US$10,000
equivalent per contract that would follow prudent local shopping procedures
acceptable to the Association. The aggregate amounts of these two
exceptions is not expected to exceed the equivalent of US$700,000 and
US$200,000, respectively. Purchases of medical equipment, vaccines and
drugs would be made following UNICEF's international procurement procedures,
in the event that they expedite procurement and limit costs. They are
acceptable to the Association. The items would, otherwise, be procured
through ICB, except where there is only one existing supplier. A list of



- 21 -
items to be procured through UNICEF would be determined and agreed upon
during project implementation.  Procurement arrangements are sumnarized in
Annex 5-4.
5.09      Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to per-it bulk procurement. Review of tender
documents by the Association prior to award would not be required for
contracts for civil works as tne cost of individual contracts is not
expected to exceed US$150,000 equivalent. However, such review would be
required for contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, drugs
and vaccines costing more than US$50,000 equivalent each. This is expected
to result in coverage of about 70S of goods contracts. Where ICB procedures
are used, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference of
15X or the existing applicable rates of duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. prices of competing foreign suppliers.
5.10      Disbursements.  The credit of US$ 27.8 million equivalent will be
disbursed over seven years against the following items net of taxes:
(a)  civil works (US$2,400,000): 100l   of total cost;
(b) furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, and drugs
(US$6,000,000): l00X of total cost;
(c)  vaccines (US$4,400,000): l00X of total cost;
(d)  technical assistance, studies, fellowships, training
(US$6,900,000): l00X of total cost;
(e)  funds for implementing results of studies and innovative
activities (US$3,500,000): l00X of total cost;
(f)  operating costs (US$2,000,000):  90% initially, declining to 30%
toward the end of the project;
(g)  refunding of the project preparation advance (US$1,000,000); and
(h)  unallocated (US$1,600,000).
A disbursement plan and an estimated schedule of disbursements, the latter
based on the West Africa regional profile for 35 education projects of
February 1984, are at Annexes 5-5 and 5-6, respectively.
5.11      Reimbursement applications to IDA will be grouped into packages
of at least US$20,000 equivalent and will be fully documented, except for
expenses related to project administration and miscellaneous operating
costs, training and contracts of less tuan US$10,000 equivalent. These
expenses would be reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures,
for which documentation would be retained for review by IDA supervision
missions and the project auditors.
5.12      Special Accounts.  To facilitate the pre-financing of expenditures
by the Government, an amount of US$1.0 million will be advanced from the IDA
credit and deposited in a Special Account held in a local bank under the



- 22 -
control of the Project Director. The Special Account would cover about
three months of estimated project expenditures. In order to ensure that the
Government's counterpart financing is promptly available, the Government
will establish a separate replenishable Local Advance Account, and will
deposit, in local currency, an initial amount of CFAF 30 million (US$78,000
equivalent) representing the approximate amount of Government counterp,art
financing for 3 months *f project activities. Opening of this account and
depositing the initial amount of CFAF 30 million is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
5.13      Accounting. Auditing and Reporting.  The PMU will maintain all
project accounts, which will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to
the Association. Certified copies of the accounts and the auditors report
will be forwarded to the Association for review within six months after the
end of each fiscal year. Quarterly reports on the progress of implementa-
tion will be submitted to IDA by the Project Management Unit. A project
completion report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the closing
date.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      Benefits.  Through its support for the Government's health sector
reform program, the project will help correct imbalances that have appeared
in the allocation of resources in the health sector in recent years.
Investment and budgetary resources will be directed increasingly towards the
rural population and for basic health care; financial constraints will be
eased as public funds devoted to medical evacuations abroad are reduced and
as efficient administrative mechanisms for recovering part of the cost of
curative services are developed; a national essential drugs policy will
improve the availability of drugs and reduce their costs to the state and
the individual consumer. Project support for the institution building
effort in MOPHSA will provide a permanent capability for better planning,
policy implementation and donor coordination.
6.02      In support of the reform program, the project will strengthnu key
maternal and child health programs, complemented by health education, the
development of community initiatives and the upgrading of personnel skills,
all of which will contribute to improving the health status of the most
vulnerable segments of the population. Support for family planning
activities will expand services in urban areas and extend them to rural
areas and facilitate policy development. Project support of pilot nutrition
activities and nutrition surveillance development should lead to elaboration
of a national nutrition policy.
6.03      The project will improve the quality of health services available
to about 3.4 million people (over half the total population of Niger). Of
these, about 1.5 million will benefit directly from services provided by
rural dispensaries within walking distance (up to 5 km) of their
neighborhoods. The remainder will benefit from basic health care, including
immunization, targeted beyond the immediate catchment area of dispensaries
by means of outreach services. Under the immunization program, an estimated
1.2 million children under the age of 5 will be vaccinated against major



- 23 -
childhood diseases, representing 75X of all children within this age group.
This coverage will be maintained with an annual vaccination of about 300,000
children representing 75S of the new 0-1 year-old cohorts.
6.04      Risks.  The project will be the first IDA-financed operation in
the sector in Niger. There is therefore a prima facie risk of delays in
implementation. However, the Government is strongly committed to the
project and anxious to move ahead with implementation. Local staff
responsible for project implementation is of high quality. Moreover, much
has already been done under two PPF advances to ensure expenditious project
start-up. To lend further support, a project implementationi workshop is
planned prior to effectiveness, and during the first year of implementation
an intensive supervision effort is anticipated.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  by the dates indicated, it will present to the Association
detailed plans of action based on the following studies to be
financed under the project (para. 3.09, Annexes 3-2 and 3-3)
(i)     hospital fee system (August 31, 1986) (para. 3.05);
(ii)     cost effectiveness of proposals to use the aniversity
hospital facilities (September 30, 1986) (para. 3.04);
(iii)     cost effectiveness of basic health services and operations
(May 31, 1987) (para. 3.07);
(iv)     financial management and hospital management (March 31, 1988)
(para. 3.07);
(v)     cost recovery of basic health services (December 31, 1988)
(para. 3.05); and
(vi)     extension of the drug distribution system (March 31, 1989)
(para. 3.06);
(b)  it will review annually with the Association (i) all investment
expenditures made in the health sector in the previous year and
those proposed for the coming three years, as part of the rolling
public investment program, with particular emphasis being given to
recurrent cost implications; and (ii) the allocation of budget and
manpower resources with regard to its support of health sector
strategy (para. 3.04);
(c)  it will organize annual meetings of all aid agencies participating
in the financing of health sector activities in Niger (para.
3.07);



- 24 -
(d) all proceeds from the sale of chloroquine will be deposited in
the revolving fund for the replenishment of chloroquine;
(para. 3.15);
(e) it will submit to the Association for its approval by September I
of each year an evaluation of the previous year's vaccination
campaign, including coverage achieved, and the proposed target
coverage for the following year based on that evaluation
(para. 3.18);
(f) it will submit to the Association for its approval a plan of
action for strengthening the maintenance system, including
efficient, low cost designs for rural health facilities by January
31, 1987 (para. 3.12);
(g) it will submit a program for supervising field staff for review
and approval by the Association no later than December 31, 1986
(para. 3.29);
(h) it will present to the Association for its approval a nutrition
surveillance system and a timetable for its implementation by
March 31, 1987 (para. 3.26);
(i) it will submit annual training plans and study tour and fellowship
proposals for review and approval by the Association by July 31 of
each year (para. 3.28); and
(j) it will have the Special Account, the Local Advance Account,
the chloroquine account and all other project accounts for each
fiscal year audited by independent auditors, and it will furnish
to the Association audit reports within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (para 5.13).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      As conditions of effectiveness, the Government will:
(a) through the intermediary of ONPPC, establish an account in a
commercial bank to operate a revolving fund for the '-eplenishment
of chloroquine for the anti-malaria program (para. 3.15);
(b) establish and adequately staff a PMU and set up an appropriate
project accounting system (para. 5.05); and
(c) establish a local advance account and deposit an initial amount
of CFAF 30 million in it (para. 5.12).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.03      Conditions of disbursement are as follows:
(a) disbursement against implementation of proposed activities, based
on study results or operational experience derived from the
project, will be conditioned upon the Association's approval of



- 25 -
plans of action prepared by the Government in collaboration with
the Association and supported by a feasibility study (para. 3.09);
and
(b) disbursement against purchases of vaccines will be conditioned on
the Association's approval of the proposed target coverage for the
following year's immunization campaign (para. 3.18).
7.04      On these conditions, a credit of US$27.8 million equivalent for
this project is recommended.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
BASIC DATA
A.  General Country Data
1.  Total Area (sq. ki) .................................... 1,267,000
2.  Total Population - (mid-1983 Estimate) (millions) ............. 6.1
3.  GNP per capita, US Dollars (1984) .......     .................... 190
4.  Enrollment in Primary School (X) (1982) ....................... 23
5.  Enrollment in Secondary School (X) (1982) ....................... 5
B.   Population Data
1. Population Density (per sq. km) (1983) .4.8
2.  Urban Population (%) (1983). . . ........... ................... 14
3.  Average ADDual Population Growth Rate (%) - 1965-73 .2.6
- 1973-83 .3.0
- 1980-2000 .3.2
4.  Annual Population Natural Increase (1985)   .     .3.0
5. Total Fertility Rate (1985)                 . . .    7.0
6. Crude Birth Rate per 1,000, (1985)             .     .    .     51
7. Crude Death Rate per 1,000 (1985) ............................. 21
C.  Health and Nutrition Data
1.  Life Expectancy at Birth (1983) (years)          .      .       45
2.  Infant Mortality Rate per 1,000, (1983)   .      ............... 139
3. Child Death Rate per 1,000, (1983)              ..              28
4.  Population per Physician (1980) ............................ 38,790
5. Population per Nursing Person (1980) .........................   4,650
6.  Daily Calorie Supply per capita (1982)   .     ............. 2,456
7. Daily Calorie Supply as % of Requireent (1982) . ......... 105
Source: The World Bank, World Development ReDort, 1985, and World Bank
Estimates.



- 27 -                         ANNEX 2-1
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Comparative Health-Related Indicators
Low-Income
Economies 1/
Sub-Saharan      (excl. China
Niger          Africa          and India)
1965    1983    1965    1983      1965    1983
Crude birth rate             48      52       48      47       46      43
Crude death rate             25      20      22       18       21       16
Infant mortality rate       181     139      156     119      147      115
Child death rate             46      28       35      23       27       18
Life expectancy at birth    41       45       43      47       45       51
i/  Countries with a GNP per capita of less than $400.
Source:  The World Bank, World Development Report. 1985



- 28.-                      ANNEX 2-2
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Ranking of Reported Diseases
Type of Disease                     As percentage of all diagnoses re-
ported from general consultations
Malaria                                            18%
Respiratory Diseases                               12%
Wounds and Lacerations                             10%
Diarrheal Diseases                                 10%
Trachoma and Conjunctivitis                         8%
Skin Diseases                                       5%
Source: Ministry of Health Project Preparation Document, "Projet
Sante, Banque Mondiale, Niger", June 1985.



-29-                                               /HEX 2-3
PziLMu1 Halth FaclitLes bY DeP.t=M  198
Agodez    Dlfff    Domn    Nwalt                NLSWY              Tabom    1      r      Ttt
B.ipitg            1        1         1          1            -            2           1          1           8
Medical aters    3          3         5          7            6            1           7          6          38
MA cers            2        1         1          3            2           10           2          6          27
Materrfties        4        3         6         10            7            3           9          8          50
Dif 8pez          16        11       32         37          53            12          34         34         229
Mb:ile uts         1        1         1          1            1            -           1          1           7
Pbarwes            2        2         2          2           3             2           3          2          18
P    dation     150M3  230.95   834.650   1.137.88             1.411.919          1.198.336  1209.534  6.143.S9
S aum  HPS



- 30-
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
FUNCTIONS AND TRMINI OF HEALTH PERSONNEL
Medical Personnel
1.        Health personnel at the highest rank of the civil service, requiring
university or graduate-level education, consist mainly of physicias and
a smll number of dentists and pharmacists. They are trained in Niamey,
Dakar, Abidjan and Lo.e; a small number is sent to France, mainly for medical
specialization. Niger began its own medical training program at Faculte
des Sciences et Sante of the University of Niamey in 1974. It has so far
produced s80e 140 graduates.
Para-oedical Personnel
2.        Infirmiers Dipla ffs d'Etat (state nurses) receive three year
training at the Ecole Nationale de Sant6 Publique (ENSP) in Niamey. The
uini-um educational qualification for entry into the program is the
Certificat d'Etudes de Premier Cycle (BWP), obtained after ten years of
school. Besides performing the full range of nursing duties, the state
nurses are placed in charge of health centers, where an important
responsibility is the supervision of dispensary-level nurses.
3.        Infirmiers Certifids (certified nurses) receive one year of training
at the Ecole Nationale des Infirmiers Certifi6s et des Aides Sociales
(ENICAS). Upon graduation, the certified nurses are usually assigned to
work at least one year in a health center under close supervision of a
state nurse, after which they will be in charge of a rural dispensary.
Usually, the certified nurse is the only person with some medical training
in a cluster of villages, and he or she may be responsible for providing
health care to as iany as 10,000 people. He or she provides curative and
preventive services, supervision and retraining of village health teams,
health and nutrition education, and recordkeeping. Where MCR services
are not available, the certified nurse is also responsible for the pre-and
post-natal care and infant nutrition advice.
4.        Sates Femnes (midwives) are responsible for all care and treatment
during pregnancy and delivery except in critical cases. Training is provided
at ENSP and is similar in length and entry requireuents to that of state
nurses. Midwives are posted at medical facilities above the dispensary
level, thus in practice work in the main towns.
5.        Aides Assistants de 1'Action Social (social workers) staff health
and MCH centers and Atents d'Hygiene et de l'Assainissement (sanitation



- 31
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
maiistants) are found at departmental health directorates where they oversee
sanitation activities. They are trained at ENICAS.
6.        Villate Health Worker Teams (VET) are composed of one or two
sale health workers and one or two traditional midwives. The VHT is
responsible for distribution of simple medicines according to specific
symptoms; treatment of wounds and fractures; monitoring of normal deliveries
and referrals of abnormal cases; instilling sound concepts of personal
and environmental hygiene; and health education, in particular with respect
to nutrition and sanitation practices. The members of the VET are chosen
by the villagers and receive some two weeks of training in health centers.
At the conclusion of training, the VET receives small midwifery and
pharmacy kits. Supervision is handled by dispensary nurses.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2-5
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Health Staff Allocated by Major Category
and Type of Facility, 1984
Doctors   Nidwives   State Nurses   Certified Nurses
Hospitals                14         22           134                166
Medical centers 1/       11        155           127                298
Dispensaries              -          -            38                249
Mobile ur4                3          -            19                 26
Administration           19          2            10                30
Other                     5          4            19                 20
Total                  52        18'           347               789
Total Available 2/    64         266           554             1,006
Staff in Rural
Facilities 3/        6          62           125               360
-Z Share            12          34            36                46
1/  Including maternities and MCH centers.
2/  The difference between total available nigerien staff and active staff
mainly reflects staff in trainimg.
3/  Medical centers, including maternities and MCH centers, in rural areas,
rural dispensaries and mobile units.



,~~~~~~II IiA 1,1H
1, eE M It  li''             ii
pI; 1111           1    , 
1~I, I!      l';]      {i
XW~~~1}  S                  I't1



-34-
ANNEX 2-7
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Realth Coverage
Coverage
(Z of population)
Village health teams                                45
Fixed health facilities:
- excludiDg dispensaries                          15
- plus dispe-aaries                               40
- plus outreach to 15 km from facility           55



ANNEX 2-8
NIGER
NEALTH PROJECT
Village Health Worker System
1972     1978      1980     1984
Villages with teams        275      1,496    2,223    3,898
Health assistants        500     2,185    3,335    6,611
Birth assistants         594      1,836    3,225    7,056
Villages with teams (x)      3.2       17.3     25.8      45.2
Source: Ministry of Planning.



- 36 -                    ANNEX 2-9
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Health Expenditures, 1984
(CFAF millions)
I. Public Expenditures
Ministry of Public Health                4,455
Ministry of Higher Education               350
Ministry of Finance                      1,090
(of which medical evacuations)            (800)
Others                                     105
Total Public Expenditure                                      6,000  (52S)
II. Private Expenditures
Drugs (ONPPC)                            2,800
Other                                      200
Total Private Expenditure                                     3,000  (26%)
III. External Assistance
Technical Assistance (replacement cost)   500
Drugs and supplies (estimate)            1,000
Village Health Worker program            1,000
Total External Assistance                                     2.500  (22S)
Grand Total                                                  11.500  (100X)



- 37 -                        AWNE[ 2-10
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Recurrent Budget for Health. 1984
(CFAF million)
1. Ministry of Public Health and
Social Affairs
Amount         Percent of Total
Personnelj]                           2,150                36
Drugs and Vaccines                    1,150                19
Training (nurses, midwives)J/           310                 5
materials and Supplies                  845                14
Subtotal MOPHSA                       4,455                74
2. Ministry of Finance
Medical evacuations2/                   800                13
3. Ministry of Higher Education
Training (medical doctors)V/            350                 6
4.  Others                              395                 7
TOTAL                                 6,000                100
O/  Salaries of professors and other staff of the para-medical schocls
are included under training, not under personnel.  If they are included
in the personnel category, the share of personnel in the MOPHSA budget
rises to about 53S (from 48% otherwise).
2)   Medical evacuations of about 180 persons, mostly to hospitals in France.
j/   Includes doctors trained both in Niamey and abroad.



- 38 -                                ANNE= 2-11
NIGER
HEALTH PROECT
Two Scenarios for Personnel/Materials Conposition
of NDPHSA Recurre8t Budget for the Period 1986-1990
(CFAF '000)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Scenario 1: No change in health Manpower policy
Total recurrent budget                                5,100  5,390  5,690  6.000  6,340
of which:
Personnel                                         2,753   3,069  3,419  3,766  4,105
Residual for materials and other operating costs  2,347  2,321   2,271   2,234  2,235
Personnl as percent of total recurrent budget           54%    57%    60%    63%    65%
Scenario 2: Reduction of intake of student nurses
from 140 to 20 beginnig in school-
year 1985/86; lower entry levels
Total recurrent budget                                5,100  5,390  5.690  6,000  6.340
of which:
Perwonel                                          2,724   2,998   3,142   3,295   3,459
Residual for materials and other operating costs  2,376   2,392   2,548  2,705   2,881
Personmel as percent of total recurrent budget          53Z    56%    55Z    55X    55%
Note: A 5.62 axnual increase in the MOPESA budget is assumed in line with the azxual increase
assumed for the total government budget over the 1986-90 period. The perwnel
excpe ditures assume the recruitment of all new graduates and replacement of aiziliary
staff. An estimated attrition rate has also been incorporated into calculations.
Sources: MOPHSA data and World Bank estinates.



AIINM 2-12
NEMR
Health Sector Irueataent Prram, 1979-68
Total
1979-83    )    198-       (2)   1979-5    (2)   198-88   (Z)
A. DLopenocies                   4,280    (28)   1,413    (16)   5,693    (23)   4,376    (20)
B. Ibternities and NfH (ireers     795     (5)      400     (4)   1,195       (5)   3,500    (16)
C. )mlacic Oeater
(oiemert level)          Nk      -       260     (3)      260      (1)     195     (1)
D. Hmgtat l. 9                   1,097     (7)   3,529    (39)   4,626    (19)   1,100        (5)
E. SdDols (mig  a
aidcaJl) .                 5,555    (36)   1,C2D    (11)   6,575    (26)         35      (0)
F. Vacdmion Prcrn                    -      -       200     (2)      200     (1)        -      -
G. Pdhlic Health Prowum              -      -         -      -         -      -    4,879    (23)
B. LG PC                           561     (4)        -      -       561     (3)        -      -
I. Vil.q eUdth eai arsm            N       -    1,948    (21)   1,94        (8)   6,943    (32)
J. (ltbr (Owl,  mm
viq  belb                   3W9    _ga)        366      (4)   3,55    (14)       40D      (3)
TOML                        15,497   (100)   9,136   (100)  24,633   (100)  21,428   (100)
1/ flw 38        ome-level "eres medicame' are cassified as ual fiities althug  tbey
have a few boepLtal. beds; they are awrremy staffed by mzrem ad midwives.
21 The six depasictutal and two Datfiod bospdtals are clmsfffed as "uzbmC althotgh tbey alm  merve
mm pert of the rural  rpzatlDonvithin a limited radius of the faMlity. The 10-bed University
ERmpltal Cnter (CHU) is iot indudxlkd In this categpry.
3/ ITc1l   DaW m8dical sd,l ard lO-bd University  spiaLenter (CHU), whici s mm yet in
operation da  to lac of re.wrent bxlet.
4/ Inclxe vacdL.ation p1. for 1985-88 IwestmeEr proram.
5/ Altbotgh  mddered m "iwestmut" by the Niger Goverumnet, this is in hut bWitary aipport for
the villW  healh worker  gr i provided by USAID aid other do& ra.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-13
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
HEALTH SECTOR SYNTHESIS
1.        Structural adjustment in the health sector aims at restoring the
balance between the objectives assigned to the sector and the priorities
that emerge from actual resource allocation in the health sector.
Imbalances are particularly noticeable between: (i) curative and preventive
health care; (ii) urban and rural health services; and (iii) outlays for
personnel and supplies (declining supplies/personnel ratio).
2.        Consequently, priority will be given to a more rigorous planning
of human, physical and financial resources, to pursue the objectives of
improving basic health services (strengthening services at the intermediate
level and in outlying regions) while taking into account the budgetary
constraints for recurrent as well as investment expenditures:
(a) Human resources: define more precisely the tasks and duties of
staff; assign paramedical graduates with priority to the existing
basic health facilities in order to improve their effectiveness;
adjust training output to the rate of infrastructure expansion,
and determine annually the number of entrants to paramedical
schools based on staffing requirements by types of institutions,
beginning with the 1986 school year, and expand training of
existing staff to all levels.
(b)  Infrastructure:  specify the functions of the different health
care institutions; limit investments irs hospitals to
rehabilitation projects or improvements in services; to this end,
the Goverment will study: (i) the possibility of relocating
certain services of the national hospital of Niamey to the
university hospital complex; and (ii) the creation of specialized
services, with particular regard for budgetary imbalances.
Awaiting the result of this study, the budgetary appropriations
for hospital services in Niamey will be maintained at their fiscal
year 1985/86 level in real terms; new construction of basic
infrastructure will be prograiued to improve health care coverage
(population density, accessibility), while respecting budgetary
constraints to finance the ensuing recurrent costs; priority will
be given to rehabilitate infrastructure and improve maintenance.
(c)  Supplies:  reduce the number of drugs imported by ONPPC and give
priority to the purchase of generic drugs through international
competitive bidding and to hospital packaging; expand the
distribution network for medicine;



- 41 -
ANIIX 2-13
Page 2 of 2
(d)  Financial resources:  improve financial suagement at all levels;
study the feasibility of transferring certain types of
expenditures to local conmunities starting in fiscal year 1985/86;
reduce the expenditures for medical evacuations abroad through a
reduction of uDit costs and the introduction of cost-sharing by
the beneficiaries based on socio-professional classifications,
beginning in fiscal year 1986/87; apply hospital fees strictly;
establish and apply service charges at the local health care
level.
3.        The investment progrm for 1986-88 will give priority to
strengthening existing facilities, to the creation of new facilities in
deprived areas, and to public health program. A new project will
strengthen the training and retraining of personnel.
4.       With UNFPA assistance, the Nigerien Government will formulate an
action progra  to implement the reciendations of the national asinar on
population. Finally, efforts will continue to develop a national nutrition
policy.



-42-                                                                  3-1
9ss1v of Ei    0d  for Uff.., 198I-1
Ratqfra  Raw              19_   _ _                19W6                      19a8                       1990
gfiTs    prw     llb                        . E          ld          Nb. of      ld            lb. i           d
FPUrIy       Fa1LuZI    for Mu..  PkUL1a    for at...   Fa1uUm    for Ut...   1a1Uti1   for UNgtN
bitau                          25             8            200          8           200           8           200           8            200
MO1m1RtIC M                     6             3B           U2          38           228          38           228          38            228
mm cactm                        5            27            135         30            150                      170          38            19D
Utoltlm                         4            50 S0                     56           224          a             52          70            28D
_       _ M                     2           229            458        256           512         28            574         321            62
N1ia Uzdt                       2             7             14          7            14           7            14           7             14
TZ11 Dw  for M .                                         I'M235                    1.328                    1,438                      1,554
-t&lAvafLb1iNames                                        1,136                     1,368                    1.591                      1.567
mAee:  Kat    u for wailUbthdy of    1saet the QwerrL'u dcision to                 ise lid,   of au&nt  ma frau 140 to 20 _ of the 1911S16
mdslw. An   l d               t          h    b  b              d   o
_,' Mm 24 tmhW s



- 43                               -379
HEALT U tOfCr
TmpuxzvAnTC  scMnz FM POLICT uvt cm=m
TR"O            TZAIL     .   TM2              TU3  3         TUR 4          Tr 5
T7T2TTT-2 3    t                                          _  3     3_ 1 2:.
Cost .Efect iv we of proposas__ to use     -                                 AS              A _  _ 
tin univereity hospital fa_ilitlee                  0                                                         _  _       __
Cot effectiveness of b_ei_
health merice aid operatiow                                         STU    I"
0
PLnanaal mangaement andTb                                                     s   PCM
ho pital manag_m_ t                                          _
CDOe rryo b-dic Imit  ebrvicee        I   ;___   
o I-*    - |                                               I         -  -
Cost Teem ory of  rer ruat  mrw_na                 T& st  Picd tb                                                Ai
M: obedolo of stud  for IDA  tal   of r mlts and recommndatin
PAC: ibuedoonf of plm of eton for nUt reiew
DiP: start of _nt mutelan of pla of action
of _uI di etralution and  -wislo-



- 4-                                            A3
a=
&mmr_ of vandlem  to be PIzinq UrA  tim IM3Se
awawr                    vt aI m                       AUw&wMu    ____
PoLicy ~fam              9'.*jtaml FM.tin               I               fusio, GE IigiaIlmia OniMrg lmaqt.1
fm aid theft mWIatimi Jim -I to
Iquwe ant mwzy In rtLocad ad
-v           p
(-o af=tm ~    Of            2                Amulyui af am~ offecivem  aE wmtm.
ltqmala to um tim                            vropala IiJdsul (1) trinfaxrlqg toutsia
umlvatguIt3r Ioqtt                           sivjm of tim us1minl lumpita In IUny
Pw.iIitim                                    to tIm imivezufty luqittal  WI= ad
Cli) athlddrg q.mclalid mtvim Ia
tbim bdly %aft a vim~ to r4&:lT
awmmaioinmdm
out Effeatimmmm Of           3               ArALyda aE badc bmeld mwLien with a
Uadc balr.h Seiawi                          VIMl to Iscewaiuam tot eakuti,is ad
ad CMMin                                    Iuati       at ad otiualons  o
PImxl& lhepfrt               6               LAdyns GE commot  inc.e1 watmog ad
ad Hadita1 Nom-                                6      cl"   WMt . vimw to
i ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~uhilz    Iqu  f1r                           kl
*_t    am t p o        z toim attic
WAOB               wef the g ad
helth ectr ad myrds of m ow.
booNiLal. eX      eti   with a vlw to
I g cwlig cout EIuttim    of twevtat
CMu Rinway of %ma4c          6               ALA1dySa Of ViniM aktSz~MIN     fOr COt
iheith sw!zlm                               zucamzy of boc tuulti mcivizus
.fAftum d 3a fm wj    ad
rmIduticm  a lr  s Vqp "on to
an MOMA to tIqilr Up. Paley at
r   rtety a  IL bvml of d    fl m-..
~ma1ndu at the kag           2               Audslysa of wmac *mg sappiy ad
EutrotibLir syum                            dsictimo pnciou ad rimm cam
fort IqKMii okig walabilhity to the
dF_~~~~~~~~PPLnl a LEW _e
Ifatul.a O.etxo           Somitzeiou sb2fte             MOO              g     of or on - azutm    kidpg hAmt
mm50. ad dt. tmme ta ta
oa _Iath O k*m actvti_e.
d~o1kaI eumlatian                         kahatiauam of wmlwa ng   of  ttvmun.
Ise  or  ca troi   y          I               FtmfalIty ad dwiWz of a Tettor (butrol
En                       a,m.y caiAhddLty ad
disommonS                                    .OS  Bff9Cl  of E    fein
te  e      f           lss6alt a f                     tdf s dDt l te
jlmm   at  I 
Xulatvitiot        Uicrttlo1n sm.i1lmmo          3               Dwvmloau  of a atritiau .owvmimo
Stdm  Of fuIarm              -WO              fvmIaPMt af qypWdW  ItMzVutIin6
AICiIaM Slav,                  -S             aualum ofa          dfsa el.
Family Plmmit           KMladmd   ApUtuds. ftselm      9               bautlmz iE offseive amtc faidly
9kidim                                       plaifig mwIm.
NUmtit Kdgucioa          qb   of swirao                TAMuiy of tim populorlW  kladdi
ad sworne of healh Immum wIth
a viAm dvirg ad tm 9tlzg
- nrgi  
Ddpo pt at 25  ahat           rour                     t iE mbim  to  id y  lwa
health loom in vEar.
kmoiaa ad B*dput          WaIrteom of mini ftdIitm    6                it?ugthettzg GE the mInatdomm  qutm far
mIAd    atutriam                     9vu  iuji  ad p4Imrd f _di_iti
1lncl3 a mowiafacEi buil41ie a.19u to
=us  adm  ad apm=l  man.
"at  NWAsona             Bvalim aE Pmjem                               1-hI  I  utt.d  by gf *taf to
_ad S Nl.L n                                                          dmes ad  ah    pcq&m    .a5



-45 -                                   ANE  3-4
NmQ
HE P:W
?IOmLL IE.:        Iitemlereal rittee                     Steertg mctee:
oa Nutriton                             - airman of  Ctl        l   ttee
(MIotrie of Agrikure,  Ullc       -_ lWD PrCgu OiOzdiMDr
buks. azn FIhblif Ibuath                -MUM  Pierttgive lia Nger
ari Socl  Affi iI)
Awb fiesI
D        TZVW.E:                                   Distrrtt |Ivel O,izxlI                        7AII _ooIDa:
Ts_tmical  ~- - -.for  Qejelprt (aidr  )          (6)
VIL/' CR MUM DY.:                             VLiiW  or Ti t l
_ 1 ffl br v_ _____
-   : dfs  Iiw
_i_ret l_



- 46                                            A1113533-5
333119111t
FMMil311111111*
Mmu                              'a cob                                             cm)~~~w 'm
out11     2   3  4   5  bIaS  6.At06       3       2        2       4       3    lild         1                       4        5     T61*
3131331M3  I                                    - -        3.32.43    3M.f.  3.12.1  3,.32.                 -  1.3494   9,34.3  9,774.  10457.3       -             94MLS
L       12635.2m)             U            12   1         9 43.15.063   -.4.   3.090  7,43.1  3.10190          1446.2   NO       1161.42495. 3     3vX .4334W.  -   494
2. WIN UwUII1m p ?  om
a  W. 1                       63    i   3   i  -   - 3 3.109.64    3.37.0  3.79.o  3.1.                 -3120.   343.   247.                                        3.2
4. 69m
I3 a.& I lIlll)               a3    I   I   I   -            3.33.6    3.32.1  3.123.1  3.w.1        -            3p.2y  M.3M.  9.774.  10445.                      I - 29.6J
UMa.3PIIIIIIEEO               4      1  2   2   2   1    9 3.02345    3.32.1  A.24.1  9.11.2  6.251Ml       .   .75      93931.3J  47424943.3.    491
7. WM 596923 IT W
(2 a. s  m a                        2  4   2   1   -   It 3.10.06    7At.4314 3460211.0V.1  3.710.8         - :Da4m    21."2.  4k40.5 2743.1 33U.4).           -  139,9-30
53 15 1 VIIIIIE               39    1        -   --    I 2.312.zf    Wall3           -       -               -  2413  4.3    3         -       -        -       -   4.064
k-Vga) 11-                                                                  M.2.47.231.7 131.8M 36.73743.32.1149.7gi.  94.05.747.6314349414   MMA92  32.457  15.13.2
0. 313-m
35 a. 53639)9                        55   5    5   5   23 3.32.43   135415   WMS) W35,435  3554413.4)54  7*.,*745d4              4546.4 5241.1 36.3140.  40.694  26444,2
52 a. s                       39    2   4   3   3  -   It03.0.0611  7.40.1 14436.2 11l31.1  3.759.           - 31~         IJB4MA 2142.14546474.1,41.           -  lull"S.
U-Tdab  -EN                                                                 2.49.  3,5152571.1.3        34415.4)5.23)3.363 4IS   7.26.  95.10.  39,40.  493.  040.6.       .306.4
C. #.m
1. Valium
i3 A. S VIIIIII303            a      2  A   5  I   I   15 3.12.69   6.354.  12.bM2  M5W5    ,39 3..2 hg23  46.36.   19,25    39W.07.  S3.37.  2,92.1 MOW6.  3I5935
32 a. 10  m                   a      2   4   4   4       2 3  3.159061   7.411.1 2.2923.2 22.2.2 14.4)4.  7.43.1 74.33.   21.472.  19463  74.0422 2.7214.1093  26346.7
62a. Alb                     40      2   4  S   4   2   23  3.1245    6026.1 1&M3.7    3l.7.4.3 12,402.  4.246.1 Q4U.4.1  b39.5.  3W1.53 4364.9 15MM   36.9374  10946.
62 a. 3 1101111m1             a      1   3   i   2   1   10 .3.UL67   7.15.1  9,349.   9.3.26.36.41  2.3LI 33.23.    9.324  2946.  23437.  2.45.  MOW6.   3MOM.
MINIaTS 411111                                                               2.I94 62.4M.0 A.97,.  0.907 1991.32 34.7W.   647.5. 1997W 0.2 23,943 43.534  7746    730.34
3. NE3VB
a2 a.k 10 3-69)               a      2   4   4   4   2   X0 3.12.457   4,244.3 18434  13M33 12.49.  &4246.1 42,441.1  16.26.23. J1a40 .6 0.9        23.826.12.4  2934.0
a2 a. tOlmlllll:              a      2   6   4   4   2   25 327.010.5   7.4)3.3 23,1544 23.234  14.634  7.430.: 76.330,   2141221 49,43   74452  53.71.  3,79.   240.37
3. TW 2111   2
2 M.   1111111111            U      2   6   6   4   2   31 2.12.W    64.251 10.734  3.73.3  12,492.  6.264.  42,45.3  19260.42 3.413.3 43.4)5.  1523.3 21.3.4  2036.0
4. OM9453135 TL U  t
42 a. tIm                     3      3  0   9  6   3   31 3.759.013  11I.1 S.       A 2,3.931.4 D2.231.12 7.1J1).271.2  2.36.115      -4 J61)213.  39,90  43453.  12.93
W-I"a -WIM                                                                  31.3.4 93.112492.3)  2442.49. 31.09 43..4 m "     90474. 291,93. 233.23  29,93. 33.13.? 1.3330.4
TabS                                                                          309311.9 23454.524. S143.16.13L149.3963739.93.   339.7.3 733.42794453.45U1.45005.44  2.W.DU



- 47 -                                     ANNEX 4-1
KIDER
HEMTH PROECT
PJECT COST SIlWAY
(CFA Million)          (US$ Nillion)                Z Total
Z Foreign  hu
Local Foreign  Total   Local Forein Total Exchui    Cuts
A. POLICY REM
1. PLICY DEELIPENT STUDIES                             -  116.0   116.0        -     0.3  0.3         100       1
2. FUNIS FM
DLENET   9HI-PROECT                             599.0  693.0  1231.0    1.5    1.9   3.3           54       14
Sdi-Total POLICY REIM                                 599.0  809.0  l397.0    1.5    2.1   3.6           59       15
3. UAIC WALTH AND
FANILY  MINMN  SERVICES
1. STR5ENIU6  OF
EXISTING SERWICES
VALARIA PROGRM                                   93.5   196.3   289.8   0.2    0.5   0.8            68       3
DIAED PROWS                                      39.8   22.2    62.0   0.1    0.1   0.2            36        1
IWIUIZ^ATIN  PROGRAM                            732.0 1,569.4 2P301.4   1.9    4.1   6.0           68       25
MATERNAL An CHILD HEALTH
NO FANILY PLAIUING                           406.4  310.5   718.9   1.1    0.8   1.9             43       a
REHAIILITATION OF
DISPENSARIES                                 759.5  926.0  1.685.6   2.0    2.4   4.4           55       19
Sub-Tota STRENGTHENING OF
EXISTING SERVICES                             2,033.2 3,024.4  5,057.6   5.3    7.9  13.1           60      S5
2. DEVELOPNET OF HEWALTH EDUCATION
aN CoNDEITY INITIATIUES
IN HEALTH AND NUTRITION
HALTH EDUCATION                                  97.0  247.1   344.1   0.3    0.6   0.9            72        4
CohMTY INInATIUES                               161.1  114.0   275.1   0.4    0.3  0.7             41        3
Sub-Total DEELDIIENT OF HFALTH EDUCATION
AND CONUNMTT INITIATIVES
IN HEALTH AND NMTTION                           258.1  361.1   619.2   0.7    0.9   1.6            58        7
3. EALTH  PIER DEVELOPN                            386.9   889.6  1r276.5   1.0    2.3   3.3          70       14
SbTotal BASIC IEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANING SERU1CES                          2,678.2 49275.1  6P953.3   7.0   11.1  18.1          61       75
C. PROJECT IWAEN
AND AMINISTRATIO                                   160,1  375.1   535.2    0.4    1.0   1.4           70        6
D. EPAYNENT OF PPF                                    114.7  270.3   3S5.0   0.3    0.7   1.0            70        4
Total   INDE COSTS                                      541.0 5,729.5  9v270.5   9.2   14.9  24.1          62      100
Plusical Contingencies                               190.3  352.2   542.6   0.5    0.9   1.4            65        6
Price Contingercies                                  565.1   907.4  1,472.5   1.5    2.4  3.8           62       16
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   4,296.4 6,989.2 11,285.5  11.2   18.2 29.3           62      122
-          -    _ =-   ==__- -= -   -           - _



em." ftm Do  em1,4         i
In --
m mm                      ~~~meo   mm
POL   011 .3WINDO-  331133
murAm a3                    imai m moon                       inow111
FWD      1-11 P.                             OKI mDUm                                                             tok
mulmi  Dmom=   wmai  KIIIIII lUIMIIIII m 1,411              ajum  p          N       mIIIIII  II11            -0       ll      u
3333 2433512    MI        mI 11111   1111311113             1 u m     w       3111313    MuII1111    murlm           Pr9       bia       I   bRm
3.       MIS1
A.IWIM pa   w
1,11111f  mImI 112D--                                                                                         33.                        -1U.                                      3.351.07.3.
16I.  IM  MRIIII
VONU. 4Ug&    ASw 
117   3353                                                        MA 13.        314.11J   4b.234.?       32.34.    4037.32.          -                         --   .3.13.  me3.33.69
Wu19111 109SIW   433153                               -                                                     -           lion".       33.          33.         23.3 343.23.a   35.5  414116
IMuonI                                                                   - 4463.    333.26.3   13.31,11-    &043.                  9.3.           6.411.3     1.431,4          -   343.  Ugm  3.33.
mm.. 11.                                                            %41134      - 1 3 16.26132,.13.             913.   333,72.    32933          49032.3      I.32.3               41313.M   SW.  31.3323
MI                                                   -            32.01.1       -         -   4.39.                -                                                               11-  -  -    2643.
m0bI -MG            1111-10
-I11. .AgM. uN.M NWA                                               1 - P.01"6W3.43.   31 .3.1  232.M.1.      32413.    13a.39,    33349.         71M.         3i.41               2.3.33.0 U. 2,3,4M
13333L  -BF                                                         22.43.2 9.33.     4,52.3   41.25.7        -l.   0,411.?    l4d"4              14111163   29I.3.           .    3..   43 Ib 5.
-                                -          .        .      -          -         .             -         -           -      23.93~~     ~     ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~-  -     -  MN.3  LO 3,433
IMuM                                                  -          .1144.2 V7.21461   45,134.   11.1.2                -                .38         3,5.4W       2.33166         -   3.1.9 3.  a 3.3.
w-TA3 imam imm cmmTam -ntc
*ALIM  411                                     33.332        10114J1.39.111.23a.6   3.1,1    23443.3          3.43.3   3vn3,9.     23.117.4    1.II.29.4     32.33.           -  2.3IP1.4  7.3 Imam3.
C.0111  MIIIMPIM
43 1113m 323ISr                                          I-MANA33.   56W.16.    -               3.4,3,3-                                                                       -  laud=3.   3.2  27Ll..
F. inst mu vMM
-  ~~~~~    .         -        -      -          .         -                                   -            -            -    3343,3    36.23.1  35       35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h3t4 3mlu OA L
244, mIST  MS1                                      331.33.  1.33.43.3  6%Mt .4243.17 t1,336.19  417.32.        1.32.111.3   374p.3   21.3340      1.2p9.32.11      .3.1     33433.3dW    3943.40   4.432.39
inZI1IU111111 am IIIII                                                711.4  .52.51.1   221.23.9131 23.2             -   11.33.1    3b3.2          7.36.       343311.4         .   2343.  4,3        9
ULAM430        INI3I1133 1113.2 1 411                                            3 DANA  & 4           -             -     4132.3    404129.4      5.32.       46.3.3                4341,9331        Le3
1111111VAIMIll                                     ~~~~~~~1.33   2.32.    3932.    3..1I9                tam2.    3MI19.                     3%.33.                                 3544
IIMJO                                        33.111P.6    -         -  1:111AW33.3.2                   -       M342                         -               2i.I   .9         3
-                         -                   - 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.39,4  11,4.2JL  4.321.6  n3.32    4.Ml.         3.1,11.     3.1.                  332.4,3
I"flm Wil                                       22,16    -110111      3W. 266, 024.23 .311.143.?  320.32.     33.1141419.   23562.   .2 ud      36.243.3      M.36.      .NL        53,413.1 LI0    4,3
Fy63  0011.1                                       3244.".          - 214.9434,M2,LD   134.743    23.334        23.43.2  *UMAD   IBM=2.             I%M4        3,4,3.           .  64332.  13 3.23.
33,443V 133A1                                     _ 14132.   2.93.33.117.499.211, 2,341I.2.  91.33.               -h.33.42   4,63.5A   3941.5       .3.4 V%I      3.1013.1  393   3w2.2331 .41J      2.2 11
M343.2       m" 42 3m.324.3.33.314. 2kp&m       3m.32.      3,,3.39.   32.33.    13.43.        1.326W32      31611.13.  whim9.  64.1123. M 41611133



- 49 -                                    ANNEX 4-3
"N -
NE LPN PcT
ProJwt CompAs  by Tear
(CF* Nillian)
Total
DMcosts
(US,
1      2       3       4       5       C7*    Nillian)
A. POLICY RD
1. POLCY NEWLPtT STIES                              72.5   33.l    9.7         -       -    116.0       0.3
2. FU_S FMR
IIIIBEHENT1N  SMI-FDCTS                             -  768.6  394.3   129.1         -   1291.0       3.3
StbTotd POLICY REFlE                                   72.5  902.4  394.0  13.1           -   14397.0      3.6
3. MMC HTN AM
FMILY PLAIING SUE CES
1. STEBTNEIW   OF
ISTING SEORmES
iRMIA  P_1A                                     152.7   27.0   54.0    34.5    21.6    299.8         0.9
DIEAl   PR36036                                  29.4    7.2    7.2    12.1    7.2         62.0      0.2
IINUIIZATIOE PUOBW                              975.1  373.0  404.6  347.7  301.0  2,301.4           6.0
.NLTJ     CL >"MTN
AND FAUILY PLAINSN                           213.9  195.7  162.0    8.3    68.9    718.9          1.9
REM3ILITATIE OF
KISUEIEfAES                                  990.0  446.7   95.9  114.4   48.7  14685.6           4.4
Sib-Total STRENGISENING OF
EXISTIMN SERVICES                            2260.1 1.039.6  713.6  597.0  447.4  5t057.6    13.1
2. EELWNL ENT OF EAWLTH EDUOATION
AM COhhlITY INITIATIVES
IN HEALTHiLND InITRITION
IEALTH EDUCATION                                152.7   52.4   45.1   52.0   42.0    344.1           0.9
CtiRINTY INITnATIVES                             69.4   50.3   69.3   49.3   37.9    275.1           0.7
Sib-Total EIJElOPIE*T OF HEALTH EDIUATION
AN CtlUDJITT INITIATIVES
IN HEALTH AMD hNhTRITION                        222.0  102.7  114.4  100.3   79.9    619.2           1.6
3. HEALTH NIMPER DEV!ELIPNEIT                      323.0  324.1  306.6  200.2  122.6  1v276.5           3.3
Sub-Total EASIC HEALTH AD
FAuLY PI.AUIINS SE3MICES                         2,905.1 1,466.4 19134.6  897.5  649.7  6,953.3    18.1
C. PROJECT IWIAIENT
AND AIINISTRATnoN                                  124.1   96.9   94.1    94.1   126.1    535.2         1.4
D. EP"AYHET OF PPm                                    395.0       -       -       -       -    385.0       1.0
Total MMEINE COSTS                                    3W396.7 2,365.6 1622.7 1W119.7   775.9  9,270.5    24.1
Pinsical Continj.nci n                               265.5   116.0   68.9   54.8    37.4    542.6         1.4
Price Continmncis                                    23 m.6  253.0  304.7  342.3   339.9  1,472.5         3.9
Total PROJECT COSTr                                   3,894.8 2734.5 1,996.3 1,516.8 1153.1  11,295.5    29.3
zzmuz =     =u  =8   ==C -Z=-e  z
Fovign Exchane                                     2,526.2 1,653.8 1,220.3  923.6   65.3   6m999.2    18.2



ie-          *l*W'l   6lCll  r               A e-     - MR   r6l t -      rw  rn  rm-K s-         MO' VS    "                                             FMu
!-n  -       racP8    6m       r    -     Vi          "I*     -    -      -   -    rVq -          *1K  PU!                                               PMm U
1     -      em                rug rm 1 -    r       9        -    -       -    -          -      r  rus
slo    -     rat      -        P    -       PULl     -              -          -    VWl   -       elm  rm-
r-  -        *z1      -        r     -       -            -      -        -   -    reu   -         ,11  -                            311       _Nm33UWP
la           ru       91                                                            PMr-t   -    r     ri                                     jam  111---u-
* q -         *a        lh    l-S  -        - m      -C       -    -       -    -      1   -       IMD  11U                                       f *    
1*11Cte      raIK    rd-I   41e-            reI      enTe   III           rt  r          rm-t-    eratweltw                            OUTUNsu          
CO            161     163        -  -       -         r       -    -        O    K   ~1 -  *            pt -'i-* be                           1    _
*@Sn         Uzl    elm         VO           -                -m 11C m   -  Va -a  ro-e        -  r,0611 slg_I 
61   -          l     LIN            -  r     -      -        -    -           -     vim   -      -- 'Q rt iAm sUmiu
isrua UhD   *63 
s'logt -     rl       P6WI    CD   -        Ze        PU!     IU    _      P1  l*    1'! -        rPS   116re                          mw1Niiu  U     I eS
i~msis - innie r  m 
-  P391'!   143'!t   613'         IU       VWS    I'm  -        ret Vai r.31' -         rat9' 131'?                                           1 3 
-   1136':   P31      i -a    LIi         P91      rION  -     rial ego P619  -       tw't Wat                        IIN1111 1111311  m
i-UP! -      -1       rm        LI          VAye      va,      PUS  -      -.  i's  ritm' -       -v   613!                                        I
Lisi     -   913A     IlL       rr -        via       I'M     -     -        w -    rut  -        vIa  c's                                          7iur
rim   -      P        *lm        VM  -      rt         UL    rP    -       rn   PU   VWI  -       - r      m r Io              -13                   13 r1
rmqI r-                          ru S1'    L    -  16  CiW    PHI -            rze1 PHP39!-      P16   19'!33.'
1  -         9W  rn            CID   -     rm        P1L   - HI  - -           all I-SSZ -       t3   'm                     _IaAU
eZ-             rDt rUl  ilt -        r"       *t       it -         ri       rZ 1   -      -   91in                                        I1M=
in
IP-t -         1-I   rPI rS      t   -      t9        *L       Liz     -   Vi  IL   83   -       r      I.E                         muI m           OmDu A
tr1. - Col Clu ZS       9' 1n4r     -       13l C     9O      Pit  -       ' r1z0  rg; 6' -      3B 111"K L 'f
rurl -  *-a  rS  rrz  -  c el  rtn r n  -  rn  Z-E  I'ta-l -                                                        mtr   
r IY    -                            ILt  *  1191 -  1Pa  *16    I*  -       i61 "ll        I - ionZi   tl                                          
.11NO.Im Ppi  111113001"w" on"~63.13mm-
rC - n Uz                      1@1Er  -*s rz UI -   ru "MrU K                              t
-                                   - -a s    -  - -   - - - -  - - -
*1q  M - . thWI                     mt'tl    et-id        t"t-         rrE tSI-                =lUt
,-,~~1 wq



- 51 -                       ANNEX 4-5
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
FinAncing Plan
(USS million equivalent)
Category                        Government of Niger       IDA       Total
Civil Works                              --               2.4        2.4
Furniture Equipment, Vehicles,
Materials, Drugs                        -                6.0        6.0
Vaccines                                                  4.4        4'4
Technical Assistance, Studies,
'Fellowships, Training                                   6.9        6.9
Funds for Implementing Subprojects       -                3.5        3.5
Project Preparation Advance                               1.0        1.0
Initial Deposit in Local Revolving
Funds                                  0.08               -         0.08
Operating Costs                         1.42             2.0         3.42
Unallocated                              -                1.6        1.6
TOTAL                                 1.5             27.8        29.3



- 52 -
ANNEX 4-6
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Bases for Estimating Project Costs
For unforeseen physical conditions, 10% has been added to the base cost of
civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, drugs, technical
assistance and training. Allowances for annual price escalations are as
follows:
Calendar Year            1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Local and Foreign (%)   7.0    7.0    7.5    7.7    7.6    4.5    4.5
The foreign annual rates are in accordance with August 1985 OPN guidelines
on expected price increases: the local annual rates have been reviewed by
Bank staff and have been found satisfactory.
Cost estimates for rehabilitation works are based on recent quotations by
local suppliers. Cost estimates for other expenditures are based on recent
experiences in neighboring West African countries and on quotations from
supliers. The average cost per month of internationally recruited
specialist services is estimated at 12,000 U.S. dollars, which is in line
with prices for comparable services in West Africa. Fellowship cost
estimates are based on WHO's benchmark figures, national staff salary
estimates on the public service pay scales in Niger, and indemnities on
UNDP guidelines.
The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows: (a) civil
works - 45%; (b) furniture and office equipment - 60%; technical equipment
- 90%; vehicles - 70%; drugs - 90%; materials - 60%; (c) fellowships -
100%; (d) expatriate technical assistance - 100%; local consultants - nil;
(e) training - 10%; (f) projet preparation facility advance - 75Z;
(g) special studies - 30%; (h) unallocated funds - 60%; and operating costs
- 40%.



-53 -                          ANNEX 4-7
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Incremental Recurrent Cost Summary
in 1985 prices
CFA         US$'000            %
'000        equivalent    Distribution
1.  Malaria                           4,918.5        12.8              1
2. EPI                              324,832.6       843.7             67
3.  Diarrhea                          3,276.8         8.5              1
4.  Nutrition                         6,731.5        17.5              2
5. DAS/PKI                           29,969.6        77.8              6
6. Family Planning                   31,261.9        81.2              6
7.  Health Education                 16,500.7       42.9               3
8.  Training                         66,812.0       173.5             14
9. Renovation of Facilities               -          -
10. Project Administration
11. PAS Studies                           -          -
Total                          484,303.6    1,257.9              100



- 54 -                    ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 4
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Incremental Recurrent Costs for Year 6
(CFA '000, 1985 Prices)
1. Malaria
Drugs                                       - 0 -
Laboratory Supplies                        1,539.0
Mainterance/Replacement of Microscopes       224.0
1,763.0
National Committee
Supervision                             1,895.6
Operating Costs                         1,259.9
3,155.5
Subtotal 1.                                4,918.5      US$12,775
2. Expanded Program of Immunization
A. Support for 2 strategies
Travel indemnities                        972.8
Vehicle operation amd maintenance      10,458.8
Central and departmental office
running costs                         4,735.6
Cold chain operation and maintenance  12,810.3
Subtotal A.                              28,977.5
B. Mobile Strategy
Seringes                                2,344.0
Vaccines
DMMOVAX                              33,080.1
BOG                                   2,592.2
Yellow fever                         14,445.5
Measles                               2,458.0
Tetanos                                 726.1
Travel indemnities                     26,150.0
Vehicle operation                       7,694.5
Cold chain operatios and maintenance   9,766.0
Subtotal B.                              99,256.4



- 55                         ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 4
C. Fixed and Outreach Strategies
Seringes                               13,282.9
Vaccines
DTCP                                 37,851.3
BGC                                  14,689.3
Yellow fever                         81,857.4
Measles                              13,928.8
Tetanos                               4,144.5
Travel indemnities                       17,187.9
Vehicle operation and maintenance         8,104.9
Cold chain operation and maintenance      5,551.7
Subtotal C.                             196,598.7
Subtotal 2.                             324,832.6      US$843,721
3. Diarrhea Control
Travel indemnities                          470.7
Vehicle operation and maintenance         1,496.2
Office running costs                      1,209.1
Subscriptions                               100.8
Subtotal 3.                               3,276.8      US$8,511
4.  Nutrition
Office running costs                      2,115.9
Subscriptions                                96.9
Salaries                                  4,518.7
Subtotal 4.                               6,731.5      US$17,484
5. MCH
Equipment Maintenance/Replacement
Baby scales 5CZ cost/year               4,767.1
Sewing machines 45Z                       754.3
5,521.4
Travel Indemnities                        4,701.8
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance
Central level                           3,049.3
Dept. level                            16,697.1
19,746.4
Subtotal 5.                              29,969.6      US$77,843



-56 -                        ANNEX 4-8
Page 3 of 4
6. Family Planning
Equipment Maintenance/Replacement
40X cost/year                          14,633.3
Contraceptives                            8,556.3
Fiches Techniques                           232.7
Central Level Running Costs               1,209.1
Subscriptions                               100.8
Documentation                             6,529.7
Subtotal 6.                              31,261.9      US$81,200
7. Health Education
A. National Level
Equipment Maintenance
Technical Equipment (20%)              2,679.7
Office Equipment (15%)                   620.6
3,300*3
Subscriptions                               100.8
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance         2,279.9
Travel indemnities                          470.7
Annual Coordination Meeting                 100.8
Office running costs                      1,200.0
Subtotal A.                               7,452.5
B. Departmental Level
Equipment Maintenance
Technical Equipment (20%)               3,188.7
Office Equipment (15%)                  1.804.0
4,992.7
Annual Coordination Meeting
Dept.                                     705.3
Arrondissement                          2.64.9
3,350.2
DDS Office Running Costs                    705.3
Subtotal B.                               9,048.2
Subtotal 7.                              16,500.7      US$42,859



-57 -                         ANNEX 4-8
Page 4 of 4
8. Training
A. Fellowships
Doctors: Specialization                     0
Others                                      n.a
0
B. Documentation                             2,871.6
C. Seminars                                  7,769.7
D. In-service training
Dept. teams in Niamey and Zinder        3,565.5
Certified nurses                        8,786.7
Social aids                             6,900.0
Nurse and midwife graduates            20,520.4
Laboratory workers                      6,980.1
Subtotal D.                              46,752.3
E. Central Office (for continuing educ.)
Vehicle operation and maintenance       1,496.2
Office running costs                    1,209.1
Furniture/equipment maintenance (15%) _  331.6
3,036.9
Departmental Office
Office running costs                   3,526.5
Furniture/equipment maintenance (15Z)  2,855.0
6,381.5
Subtotal 8.                              66,812.0     US$173,538
9. Renovation/Rehabilitation of Peripheral Facilities
Maintenance Costs
10. ProJect Administration
11.  PAS Studies



- 58 -
AEX 4-9
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Annual Incremental Recurrent Costs and Financing
at Full Project Development
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Donor
Components                      Comuunity Government   Total
MCH Prograns                                         197        197
Contraceptives                                    (22)
Operating costs                                  (175)
Iumunization Proram                       335        509        844
Vaccines                              (335)      (200)
Operating costs                                  (309)
Health Education                                      43         43
Operating costs                                   (43)
Manpower Development                                 174        174
In-service training
and seminars                                    (141)
Other operating costs                             (33)
TOTAL                                  335        923        1,258



I                aWE 
I   
I
aI I  ' 



- 60 -                             A    54
-     Yar
Yewr Yewr Yew Year Year
O _ffpmm                DO"aivtlm           1     2      3     4      5     TAl
Policy refam          52p1al fee .ya             1                               1
LkLization o2 mimendty
hqlat&                    2                               2
Out efecivus  of bode
bealth ser'1 awl
I  al,                    3                               3
FfruidaL =mqprw arl
lDSpLtal nunm xtm                6                        6
Oa rewery of book bulith
ewvim                            4     2                  6
Eednm of dng distri-
butlon sysm                            2                  2
(20)
Malaria               Vecor ahmo  study                1                         1
(1)
Expaule prra  of    l      aRlmm*io   a distm    2      1     1      1     1      6
Of ummnizatlan                                                                  (6)
W.ruhe  axml         Prr "n a                   2                                2
(2)
Ntrition              Siveilllee p                3                               3
(3)
Paily plaiml          A_n       of onrea
Aclptlm                   3      3     3                  9
(9)
1aith eduatnon        Health edulotion  spedaUt  1                                1
Media aecLalist            4      4     4      4     4    20
9oiaL scdeitiat            6                               6
(27)
Remvation id equp-  Heath fahlities
OE periperal       _    1                   6                               6
(6)
Traizdxg              Txlepztion  adl waem-   4                                   4
tion  saraam                                             (4)
Project    _     tm am  aw i              -
awl adunistrt Ion.    tatlon aistan             12    12    12    12    12    60
Settirg up of Sax t1-ga
syata                     1                               1
kxd  of  ject aunt         1      1     1      1     1     5
Prooz'munsiata       5    2                                2
(68)
~ta.                    -53    32    25    18    18   146
'StotaL# are sbvo In psrehds .



- 61 -                                                    AIMM 5-3
1UALTI PEalnc
IWNl(IENATION SCHEDWUL  PS3 STINICfI IIU O  WluC IEALTI AND FARILT PLANItIN  SERVIQCS
IEARO            13*1 I          1U*2            13 *3           1  *4 121 35
1.  Nalaria Control
- SonuitIsatLon studies                        _                                             2       43                12
- Epidemological study
- Vector Control study
- Puarchau of uim  1l drug atock *
supplies
-Progra ActivLt.                                                            - __ 
2. Expanded Progrm of I.mmnization
- Elaboration of plan of action
- Sedn_ars
- urcha.. of Iquipmant
-PFro%ra Activttiea                                     =                                                               _
3. Diarrhoa Control
- Purchae of YVhtc la
- Program Management TA
- Progra Actlvitt. o                                   _  =   _
4. Mitrition
- Cboice of 3 districts for progrm
-ftudles of Environment                                                - t _ _          - _         -
- Nhutritional Sunrvy
- Support of Villgea XIDtiativem                        _   _   _      _    _    _   _   _
CNuber of Villass per year)                                t )             (O)             t  )            t  )            ( O
- Davelopuat of Nutritcon
SurVdllcnca System
5.NIE/Familly Flauniug (VP)
-TrainiugoEofm widvaa--                               - 
-Ptrch.aaOffcntraceptive_ _ _  _ _                                              -                   - _ _ _
- Purchase of  ynecological equipme_t
for 7 dapanrtmt_
- lWP Studies
S. Health Education Cdnponant
- Study trips to Senegal. GacbI,_
Berkmaa
- VonI8bopi/ge.incc* at unationl and
departmetal levels
-  quipment of nottona office
- Sociological study of  iron__ment
- ftrchoe of tch0iceal equipment
- Production of 10filme                                        
(Cer par year)                                              )               )               )             t                 )
-  roduction of 4 bealth uducAtlon                                                                           (})
'naoer per yesr)                                                          d)
C. Health Ranpower Development
-  leslon of ericulum  (3 schools)
- Tranaing of dewrteatal team
-Sinare rad laiserIce traiutrg
- Short ter  speclitio                                  _   +ln
- (mbp er per year)                                          (5)             (5)             (5)             (5)             (5)
- Derelopmnt of a poW _ of regular
*npervimion
V. Rebailitatton and  quippig of
lbalth Facultlie
-  welopmet af low maintenance
design plane for facities
- Eewlopat of a  _taten                                -       -t-
-Dehblitaetion f  fa citlence                          _==t
-le-equippig of fautc_li                _                          -
5. Project Management ad Administrat ion
- Securing and  qupm et of office
space               _ _   _ _ _
- Set up aod sudit of project
accounta                   *                                      _=



- 62                              ANN  5-4
NIGER
hEALTHE P1OJECr
Procurement
(USS million euivalemt)
Procurement Method         Total
Project Element                      ICB    LCB    Other   N/A a,   Cost
Civil Works                                  -       2.0     0.6     -          2.6
(2.0)    (0.6)            (2.6)
Furniture, Office Equipment,
Material                                   1.1    0.4       0.2               1.7
(1.1)  (0.4)    (0.2)             (1.7)
Medical Equipment, Drugs
Vaccines                                   8.6    -        -       -          8.6
(8.6)                             (8.6)
Ve'ic3les                                    0.6    0.3      -       -          0.9
(0.6)  (0.3)                      (0.9)
Techical Assistance, Fellowships Studies     -      -        5.4    -.4
(5.4)             (5.4)
Traimnig                                     -      -        2.1     -          2.1
(2.1)             (2.1)
Project Preparation Facility                 -      -       -         1.0       1.0
(1.0)    (1.0)
Fuds for Implementing sabprojects            -      -       -         3.5       3.5
(3.5)    (3.5)
Operating Costs                              -      -       -         3.5      3.5
(2.0)    (2.0)
TOMA                                   10.3    2.7       8.3     8.0      29.3
(10.3)  (2.7)   (8.3)   (6.5)   (27.8)
aI Not applicdble.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amomts fiaced by IDA.



-63 -                               ANNEX 5-5
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Disbursement Plan
Amount of Credit
Allocated              X of Expenditure
Category                   (US$'000 equivalent)        to be Financed
1.  Civil Works                                2,400                     100
2. Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles,
Materials, Drugs                         6,000                     100
3. Vaccines                                    4,400                     100
4. Technical Assistance, Studies
Fellowships, Training                    6,900                     100
5.  Funds for Implementing Subprojects         3,500                     100
6.  Operating Costs                            2,000           90S initially declining
to 30% toward the end of
the project {1
7.  Refunding of Project Preparation
Advance                                    1,000          Amount due as specified
in Section 2.02(c) of
Credit Agreement
8.  Unallocated                                1,600
27,800
/ Disbursements against exp-rditures in this category uould be made as follows:
90% until total disburse .ents reach the equivalent of US$1,050,000 equivalent;
60Z thereafter until total disbursements reach US$ 1.575,000  equivalent; and 30%
thereafter.



- 64 -                          ANNEX 5-6
NIGER
EEALTH PROJECr
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements*
(US$ million equivalent)
Fiscal Year/         Disbursement   Cumulated   Cumulated   Undisbursed
Semester            Per Semester   Amount        Percent    Balance
FY87
December 31, 1986 a/          1.0         1.0  b/      3             26.8
June 30, 1987                 1.5         2.5          9             25.3
FY88
December 31, 1987             1.9         4.4         16             23.4
June 30, 1988                 2.0         6.4        23              21.4
FY89
December 31, 1988             2.5         8.9         32             18.9
June 30, 1989                 2.5        11.4        41              16.4
FY90
December 31, 1989             3.1        14.5        52              13.3
June  30, 1990                2.7        17.2         62             10.6
.Y91
December 31, 1990             2.5        19.7        71               8.1
June 30, 1991                 2.3        22.0        79               5.8
FY92
December 31, 1991            2.2         24.2        87               3.6
June 30, 1992                 1.4        25.6        92               2.2
FY93
December 31, 1992 c/          1.4        27.0        97               0.8
June 30, 1993 d/             0.8         27.8       100               0.0
l/ Expected date of effectiveness: July 1, 1986.
b/ Includes disbursement from PPF advance.
c/ Expected date of project completion; December 31, 1992.
d/ Closing date: June 30, 1993.
*   Based on West Africa Regional Profile for 35 Education Projects dated
2/29/84.



- 65 -
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.l  Le Systeme de Sante au Ngier, Ministry of Plan, Niamey, April
1985.
A.2  Higer, _emorandum sur le Secteur de la Sante, World Bank Sector
Memorandum, April 1981.
A.3  Les Charges Recurrentes du Secteur de la Sante Publique:  Etude de
Cas, Ministry of Plan, Niamey, January 1985.
A.4  Niger: _PHN Contribution to Public Investment geEort, Foster,
Washington, December 1984.
A.5  Rapport Annuel des Activites PMI, MOPHSA, Niamey, 1982.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
D.i  _A_e-Memoire. Pro  angr e Elarsi de Vaccination, Pro ositions de la
Mission Conjointe OMS-Banque Mondiale, Niamey, February 1985.
B.2  President's Report for a Structural Adiustment EE2gram_in_Niger,
World Bank Report No. P-4185-NIR, January 1986.
B.3  Documents de Preparation du PrograMe_e d'Ajustment Structurel.
Secteur Sante: Recouvre ent des Couts. Perspectives de
Fonctionnement du CHU de Niamey, Ministry of Plan, Niamey, July
1985.
B.4  Pro iet Sante, Banque Mondiale,  iger, Ministry of Public Health
and Social Affairs, Niamey, June 1985.
C.   Staff Working Papers
C.l  _apport de Consultation, Volet Formation du Personnel de la Sante,
Projet de la Banque Mondiale: Niger, Chaponniere and Walter, Santa
Cruz, California, February 1984.
C.2 Rapport de Consultation. Projet Sante Niger, Meloni, Brussels,
Belgium, June 1985.
C.3  Fpports Mission_PAS, Nier  Sante, Rasera, Dijon, France, October
1984 and June 1985.



- 66 -
C.4 Reinforcement of Maternal and Child Health and Expansion of Family
Planning_Activities, Foster, Niamey, June 1985.
C.5 Rapport de Mission au Niner. Prosrammation et Formation, Prograome
d'Action Antippludigue, 0MS, Ivorra-Cano, Niauey, February 1985.
C.6 Consultant's Report on Health Education Component, Shaw, Niarey,
June 1985.
C.7 RaLpport sur la Composante Refection et Entretion des Formations
Sanitaires, Waechter, Paris, June 1985.
C.8 Detailed Cost Estimates.
C.9 Draft Terms of Reference on Policy Reform Studies.



0@  2-                           ;                    In Gum -mV
N I G ER
HEALTH PROJECT                                                                                               Ad.-
Health Sector
Network:                       Paved roads (1 or 2 lanes)       j
Engineered gravel roads                  /
National hospitals      --Simple earth roads 
-IW    ,   University hospital      --- Maintained tracks                            *
- Simple tracks _
*   Departmental health      -      Rivers                           *     
director. es                   Airports                         |
o   Departmental hospitals     *    National capital                                 \
1    Department capitals
Community Initiativ     -.-    International boundaries                                                       .
in Health and Nutrition        Department boundaries
Component              --      Pretecture boundaries                                       N            In
As(ooxos'
in G ll
No.j
Tchn-in-TSbaad              
;  M          A            L    I  .                          r  A H O   AA,d
_  Se .r r 1 \ v r <~~~~~~~Td o                                         \*
~~~~~~~~~~~~:9
-IT- B U R K I N A                      P             \ )&                         N    I   G    E                              R    I
F A SO                                     4L*          5 
12   U                                                  E N I N    /IE
ob      r                         \   t                                      ~~          ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,'  Ir



IBRD 19460R
r               v               I                  Ir~~~~~~~~~1                     14.                          I
I      ,.~-------------'       -e 
A   G   A  I D  7^E  Z                                0BaFma                                       |
A, 
J     k-                                  17:ZJ  
I  DIFF A                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16*
I;                                   7 !   /                      s
-TakouZ  uZ'N D EAR                                        !
SamBa     I
S*a        I                                                                                                         LIBYMALI  G  E R
KILOMUETERS              :                    ,                         E     CHAD
I   A                             o                 MILES                                                  NIGERIA       / 
Tfl nwo has boo preaa,.d b The Wwfd awks s_tF as* for rt cwwwaene. 01 zo
Ih eadws nd ahwel e VW a dmis ame of The Wed mnk &W hreW k \o! z j
FwmCM:  ThedaruMOused n Me boxmo SW  an go @MV dono
.rWy. 0. P_l pd of The bbrld 8,* W amn/ bapewborml F.wwo CoPwvWm &s PXV-g       /                    CENTRAL
0 b bI d 6 bmle Or Sn' IOt01WV e_O  1.5,1 0' upII.I   ouri Ub_omi           *          CAMEROON    REP.C,-
ID*                                12                               Gu          MGUIEA                  .
MARCH 1986






