Docum.et Of
The World Rank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwrt No. P-4216-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 25.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
HEALTH PROJECT
February 26, 1986
Tis doc_aet  s a rtrieted distribuion ad wy be used by recpits eoly in the perfornsee of
their officl dldkl. Its contens mxy notherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank athorizaion.



r
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAv 385
CFAF 1 = US$.0026
CFAF 1 Million = US$2,597
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
EPI       Expanded Program of Immunization
FP        Family Planning
FED       European Development Fund
(Fonds Europ6en de Developpement)
MCH       Maternal and Child Health
MOPHSA    Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
ONPPC     National Pharnnaceutical Cor.panv
(Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques
et Chimiques)
PPIT      Project Management Unit
WHO       World Health Organization
UNFPA     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:      Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
Amount:        SDR 25.1 million (US$27.8 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Objectives:    The proposed project will assist the Government in introducing
policy reform in the health sector.  It will assist in the
implementation of Niger's Structural Adjustment Program at the
sectoral level through studies and reform programs aimed at
improvements in investment planning, the allocation of recurrent
expenditures, cost recovery, the availability of essential
drugs, sector management and aid coordination. It will also
assist the Government to define policies relating to population
and family planning and nutrition. Moreover, in support of the
sectoral reform program, the project will improve the efficiency
of priority health programs: (i) maternal and child health care
including family planning, control of malaria, diarrhea and
other communicable diseases, (ii) health education and community
initiatives in health and nutrition, and (iii) training of
health personnel.
Benefits:      Through its support of the Government's reform program in the
health sector, the project will help correct imbalances that
have appeared in recent years in the allocation of resources in
the health sector, ease financial constraints, increase the
availability of essential drugs, reinforce planning and program
execution in MOFHSA and improve donor coordination. Also, the
project will strengthen priority health programs and services
with particular emphasis on women and young children, the highest
risk group in the population, and on rural services. It will
improve the quality of health services available to 3.4 million
people.  Through the expanded immunization program, an estimated
1.2 million children nationwide, representing about 75X of
children under five years of age, will be vaccinated against the
major childhood diseases by the end of the project implemen-
tation period.
Risks:         The project will be the first IDA-financed operation in the
sector. There is, therefore, a risk of delays in implemen-
tation. However, the Government is strongly committed to the
reform program and anxious to move ahead with project imple-
mentation. Local staff responsible for project implementation
lThi dumenthas a icted dtribution and may be usd by ecipients only in the performace
or their oMcialdutie Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authonztaon.



- ii -
is vell qualified. Moreover, with financing from two PPF
advances, a number of steps have been taken to ensure
expeditious project start-up, and a project implementation
workshop is planned prior to credit effectiveness.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
------US$ Million-
A.   POLICY REFORM
1. Policy Development Studies               -            (.3       0.3
2. Funds for Implementing
Sub-projects                             1.5          1.8       3.3
Sub-Total A.                                      1.5         2.1        3.6
B.   STRENGTHENING OF BASIC HEALTH
AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
1. Strengthening of Existing Services       5.3          7.9      13.1
2. Development of Health Education
and Community Initiatives in
Health and Nutrition                     0.7          0.9       1.6
3. Health Manpower Development              1.0          2.3       3.3
Sub-Total B.                                      7.0        11.1       18.1
C.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION        0.4         1.0        1.4
D.   REPAYMENT OF PPF ADVANCES                    0.3         0.7        1.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                              9.2        14.9       24.1
Physical Contingencies                      0.5          0.9       1.4
Price Contingencies                         1.5          2.4       3.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              11.2        18.2       29.3
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding. Estimated project costs
are net of taxes and duties from which the project would be exempt.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign         Total
-------US$ Million--
IDA                        9.6             18.2            27.8
Government                 1.5               -              1.5
TOTAL                11.1              18.2            29.3
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90       FY91    FY92    FY93
--US$ Million--                -
Annual               2.5    3.9       5.0     5.8       4.8      3.6     2.2
Cumulative           2.5    6.4    11.4    17.2        22.0    25.6    27.8
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Project Completion Date:   December 31, 1992
Staff Appraisal Report:    5937-NIR
nD: IBRD 19460R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger in an amount of SDR 25.1 million
(US$27.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Health
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        This section is based on findings of the missions in 1984-85 that
prepared the first Structural Adjustment Credit to Niger (Report No. P-4185-
NIR). Annex I contains country data.
Structural Characteristics of the Economy
3.        With an area of 1.27 million km2, Niger is about 2.5 times the
size of France. It is a landlocked country, and its closest access to the
sea is 600 km from the southern border. The population is estimated at
about six million and growing at 3% a year, which is above the average for
Sub-Saharan Africa. Nearly 90% of the population is concentrated in a thin
band along the southern border, in the 12% of the land that is considered
arable. Rainfall is limited and often irregular, while soil fertility is
low and declining, due to intensive use. Niger is one of the poorest
countries of the world, with a per capita GNP of US$190 in 1984. The life
expectancy at birth of 45 years is low, even by African standards. High
infant and child mortality rates account for 60% of all deaths in the
country. The adult literacy rate is only 8% (0.5% for women), and the
primary school enrollment ratio not more than 23%.
4.        The Nigerien economy has traditionally been dominated by
subsistence agriculture, with millet and sorghum taking up 80% of the
cultivated area. Livestock also provides an important source of income and
export receipts. Except for the Sahelian drought periods, the country has
always been self-sufficient in food production, despite its very limited
agricultural resource base. The discovery of large uranium deposits in
the late 1960s triggered the development of an important mining sector in
Niger. Under highly favorable conditions in the world market for uranium
during the late 1970s, the mining sector expanded rapidly; uranium became
the country's principal foreign exchange earner and a major source of
government revenues. As a result, Niger went through a period of rapid
growth and modernization, and the public sector took a dominant position in
the modern economy. The uranium boom ended in the early 1980s, when prices
dropped and Niger's production decreased. Consequently, the share of the
mining sector and the modern sector in the economy both declined
significantly.
5.        Niger has traditionally maintained an open economy, exporting and
importing about 25% of its GDP. Strong trade relationships exist with



Europe (mainly France) and neighboring African countries (particularly
Nigeria). This openness has been facilitated by the West African Monetary
Union, of which Niger is a member. The Union's central bank (BCEAO) issuea
a comon currency for its member states, the CPA franc.  Its full
convertibility into French Francs, at a fixed rate of CFAP 100 - 2FF, is
guaranteed by the French Government. In return, the monetary union imposes
discipline over the monetary and balance of payments policies of its member
countries.
Past Economic Developments
6.        During the first half of the seventies, Niger exhibited all the
features of a resource-poor Sahelian country. Economic performance was
dependent on a limited number of crops and livestock, which were severely
constrained by poor soils and unfavorable climatic conditions. This was
dramatically illustrated in 1972 when devastating droughts caused a sharp
decrease in crop production and in the livestock herd. During the second
half of the seventies, Niger's economic performance improved significantly,
and real GDP grew at an average 7% per year. The growth of the rural
sector accelerated, due to the favorable weather conditions and a
successful herd rehabi'Litation program. The uranium sector went through a
boom, boosting the share of the mining sector in GDP from 6% in 1975 to 13%
in 1980.
7.        This favorable economic performance ended abruptly in the early
eighties as a result of two factors. First, real export prices of uranium
fell sharply, by more than 502. between 1979 and 1982. Uranium export
earnings stopped growing and uranium revenues dropped from 25% of
government revenues in 1980 to 14% in 1983. Second, agricultural
production was hampered by unfavorable climatic conditions, forcing Niger
to increase food imports. As a result of these developments, real GDP
stagnated in 1981-1982 and declined by almost 3% in 1983. This slowdown in
economic activity vas accompanied by the emergence of sizeable fiscal and
external deficits. Budgetary revenue, which had peaked at 13% of GD? in
1981, fell to 10% of GD? in 1983, reflecting the heavy dependence of
revenues on the modern sector and on international trade. Public
expenditures, on the other hand, continued to grow. Consequently, the
budget deficit averaged 9% of GD? over the 1980/81-1982/83 period. At the
same time, the external current account deficit (including official grants)
averaged 9% of GDP. Export revenues of uranium as well as livestock
products stagnated and, when expressed in US dollar terms, decreased
substantially. The financing of this deficit forced the country to
accumulate a heavy foreign debt, reaching 502 of GDP in 1983 (of vhich 77Z
was public or publicly-guaranteed debt). As a result, the debt service
ratio increased from 22% in 1980 to 34Z in 1983, while the public debt
service/public revenues ratio increased from 11% to 45%.
8.        When the uranium boom came to an end, a number of serious
imbalances in the structure of the economy became evident. First, during
the uranium boom, the Government began to use the public expenditure
program as the primary instrument for allocating financial resources in the
economy and for generating economic growth. Public investment became
focused on infrastructure and building projects, while agricultural



-3-
investments encountered serious problems. Recurrent expenditures favored
personnel and transfer payments over operation and maintenance, to the
detriment of existing infrastructure and basic public services. These
imbalances were exacerbated in the early eighties by rapidly increasing
interest payments on public debt, a decline in tax revenues, and inadequate
cost recovery for public services. Second, although uranium revenues
started to decline in 1981, the Government continued to implement its
ambitious development plan by relying increasingly on external borrowings.
To finance growing budget and external deficits, the country accumulated a
heavy foreign debt, which rose to US$ 915 million at the end of 1984. or
65% of GDP. A substantial share of this amount was committed on co-mercial
terms. Without debt relief, the debt service ratio would have risen to 47Z
in 1984. Third, during the late seventies, public enterprises proliferated
into uneconomic activities and acquired privileges that discouraged private
sector development. Many of them incurred substantial operating losses and
became a drain on the government budget and the financial sector. This
negative performance was caused by government regulatory policies in the
areas of pricing, marketing and employment, by excessive government
interference in day-to-day management, and by lack of qualified personnel
and inadequate accounting practices. Finally, the rural development
strategy which the Government pursued over the last ten years to achieve
food self-sufficiency was implemented through large-scale projects, using
unproven technology and heavy institutional infrastructure. The Government
intervened actively in input, product and financial markets, to overcome
perceived weaknesses in private sector activities. This distorted market
incentives for agricultural production and caused substantial budgetary
outlays.
9.        The Government began addressing some of these difficulties in the
1982/83 budget year, by taking austerity measures such as a freeze in wages
and salaries, cutbacks in material, supplies and investments, and tighter
control over foreign borrowings. A stabilization program was initiated and
subsequently supported by three ID Standby arrangements, the last of which
was approved in November 1985. Debt rescheduling agreements were reached
with the Paris Club in November 1983. 1984 and 1985, and with the London
CluD in early 1984. The objectives of the stabilization program are to:
(i) improve the tax effort; (ii) limit the growth of current expenditures;
(iii) reduce and restructure investment expenditures; (iv) reduce the
Government's domestic arrears; (v) improve the financial performance and
limit the size of the parastatal sector; (vi) liberalize marketing and
trading policies; and (vii) restrain foreign borrowing. Implementation of
this program has been satisfactory, although the impact of the recent
drought on public expenditures and on the balance of payments required some
modification of the initial targets. By 1985, the deficits in the budget
and the current account had both been reduced significantly, to about 52 of
GDP. The reduction in the budget deficit reflected mainly a substantial
cutback in investments; efforts to limit and restructure current
expenditures or to increase revenues have been less successful. The
reduction in the current account deficit was to a great extent a result of
a sharp decrease in imports, brought about by demand management policies.
10.       Real GDP is estimated to have fallen in 1984 for the third
consecutive year. The sharp decline of 16% in 1984 is due primarily to a



- 4 -
very serious drought, which resulted in a 30-40% decline in food crop
production and in a 40% loss in the livestock herd. Other factors with a
negative impact on GD? were the closure of the Nigerian border since 1984
and the reduced level of public expenditures. GDP growth in 1985, which
has been estimated at 7.1%. is due mainly to a strong recovery of the rural
sector following abundant rainfall. The outlook for 1986 assumes that the
recovery of the economy from the drought will continue.
Niger's Development Prospects
11.       In the present circumstances, Niger faces a double challenge.
First, the country has to overcome the financial imbalances and structural
weaknesses that are the legacy of the uranium boom. Second, it has to
develop its national economy on a very narrow resource base, as regards
both physical and human resources. The recent decline in real GDP clearly
indicates the need to complement continued austerity with policy measures
that allow the country to restore a minimum acceptable level of growth. In
the short term, the focus should be on improving the efficiency with which
existing resources are utilized. In the longer term, continued efforts
will need to be made to expand the productive base of the economy. This
will necessitate further development of the agricultural sector pard of
Niger's human resources, in combination with an acttve prograr. to slow down
population growth.
12.       Structural Adjustment Program.  In 1985, the Government decided
to complement its stabilization program with a structural adjustment
program. This program mainly addresses the efficiency issues. The first
phase focuses on policy improvements in three areas where the problems are
most acute and where policy change would have the greatest beneficial
impact on the budgetary and balance of payments position: (i) public
resource management, (ii) parastatal reform, and (iii) agricultural policy.
IDA is supporting the program through a structural adjustment credit,
approved in February, 1986.
13.       Under the adjustment program, a more efficient use of budgetary
resources will be pursued to better utilize existing investments, expand
essential services and strengthen the basis for future economic
development. A three-year budget program has been adopted for the period
1985/86-1987/Z8 reflecting: (i) restructured recurrent expenditures with
increased allocations for operation and maintenance, a freeze in personnel
expenditures in real terms and reduced transfers to consumers; (ii)
restr-ictured investment expenditures, with more emphasis on directly
productive investments, human resource development, and rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure; (iii) expanded domestic resource mobilization
through cost recovery efforts; and (iv) improved external debt management.
This program will be reviewed and rolled over annually.
14.       The Government's parastatal reform program, which is designed to
increase the efficiency of public enterprises as well as to encourage
private investment, covers three areas: (i) revisions in incentive
policies; (ii) improvements in the legal and institutional framework for
the parastatal sector; and (iii) rehabilitation, privatization and
liquidation programs for individual enterprises. In this context, price



-5-
and trade controls have been considerably relaxed, legislation clarifying
the relationship between the state and individual enterprises has been
adopted, and rehabilitation of the most important enterprises has been
initiated. Privatization or liquidation efforts are underway for other
public enterprises.
15.       The Government has reformulated its rural development strategy
and supporting policies to improve the efficiency of its interventions in
this sector and to limit their budgetary impact. First, the sectoral
investment program is being reoriented, emphasizing quick-yielding,
small-scale productivity projects, farmers' participation, and
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. Second, the operations of the
cereals marketing and storage agency (OPVN) have been limited to the
management of a reduced security stock; its price stabilization role has
been eliminated. Third, subsidies on agricultural inputs is being
curtailed in order to expand their availability and limit the budgetary
impact. Fourth, a reform program of the agricultural credit system, which
had practically collapsed under severe financial strains, has been
initiated. Finally, the agricultural research program is being reoriented
towards more applied research at the farm level and more farm systems
research, In order to strengthen the basis for longer-term agricultural
growth.
16.       Expansion of Resource Base.  In the medium term, the structural
improvements referred to above should make it possible to gradually
increase economic growth without causing undue strains on the government
budget and the country's balance of payments. The reform measures will
reduce the policy impediments to higher and more productive utilization of
the country's existing resource base. However, this resource base is small
and the extent of supply responses to the improved policy framework is
uncertain because of Niger's present low level of development. A
necessary corollary to the oolicy reforms, therefore, is a concerted
effort to reduce the country's severe resource constraints and expand the
productive base of the economy. This relates primarily to a further
development of the agricultural, industrial and energy sectors, and to an
accelerated development of Niger's human resources.
17.       The scope for further development of agriculture in the longer
run is uncertain, given the low and diminishing fertility of the soil and
the unstable climatic conditions in the Sahel region. Food self-sufficiency
in the eighties and beyond can only be achieved through a gradual
improvement in yields on land that is already under cultivation and through
an effective population policy. In addition, support for better use of
modern agricultural inputs, the development of small scale irrigation
schemes, and applied research on rainfed agriculture will be important for
the future development of Niger's rural sector. In industry, development
is handicapped by the limited size of the domestic market, the landlocked
position of the country, and the lack of local raw material resources.
Nevertheless, private initiative should be encouraged by improved promotion
and incentive policies. Finally, the development potential in energy and
mining should be better assessed by geological surveys and exploration
activities. An important coal deposit was identified in 1983, but high
transportation costs cast serious doubts on the economic viability of its



-6-
development. Similarly, small oil reserves have recently been discovered,
but their exploitation apnears to be uneconomiLal at this stage.
18.       Developing human resources is crucial for future economic
growth in Niger, although investments in this area have a very long
gestation period. Primary education will have to be expanded as a first
priority, and profession--l and vocational training -- designed to meet the
specific requirements of the Nigerien economy - is needed to reduce the
skilled manpower constraints. Health programs should focus on improving
basic health services in the rural areas and on preventive rather than
curative health care. Finally, the current rate of population growth of 3Z
a year puts unbearable pressure on the country's scarce resources, and on
budgetary allocations for public services. Therefore, Niger's development
program has to be accompanied, as a matter of great urgency, by an active
policy of reducing population growth.
19.       To further these development objectives, a major effort will be
required, both on the part of Niger and its aid donors. The Nigerien
Government needs to continue the review of investment strategies and to
make adequate counterpart financing available for project implementation.
External financial assistance would have to increase in volume and be
provided on highly concessionary terms, preferably in the form of grants,
in light of the country's external debt situation. Aid coordination needs
to be strengthened to ensure that assistance projects are in line with the
Government's adjustment and development strategies. In addition, Niger
requires increased non-project assistance to support policy reform, and
donors should consider recurrent cost financing. In view of the government
budget constraints, which are expected to persist, donors should continue to
finance local costs. Finally, in order to keep Niger's debt service burden
manageable in the future, donors should be prepared to consider
supplementary measures of debt alleviation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
20.       Twenty-seven IDA credits have been approved for Niger as of
February 28, 1986, for a total amount of US$303.7 million equivalent.
There has been one IFC investment, in the amount of US$2.2 million.  Ten
IDA credits, amounting to US$100.9 million, were for the rural sector
(drought relief, rural development, forestry, irrigation and livestock).
Eight credits have been for roads, aiming primarily at upgrading the main
and feeder road networks. Eight other credits covered telecommunications,
education, power and industrial development, and economic and financial
management assistance to the Government. A Structural Adjustment Credit in
the amount of US$60 million equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in February 1986. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Group Operations in Niger as of September 30, 1985.
21.       While the Government's macroeconomic performance in recent years
has been quite satisfactory, experience with project preparation and
implementation has been mixed. The Second Maradi and Dosso Rural
Development Projects (Credit Nos. 1026-NIR and 967-NIR) have encountered
major difficulties due to inadequate institutional arrangements, managerial



-7-
problems, a lack of proven technical packages for rainfed farming, high
investment and operating costs of irrigation, and poor credit recovery.
These projects, as well as the First Livestock Project (Credit No. 885-
NIR), have also been affected by slow administrative procedures, and the
recent severe drought. To assist the Government in alleviating the effects
of the drought, the Association amended several ongoing agricultural
projects to finance seeds and destocking of herds. Highway and feeder road
construction projects have been and are being implemented on schedule.
Social infrastructure projects, on the other hand, have suffered some
delays, largely because of the inexperience of implementing institutions.
In the early 1980s, project implementation was also adversely affected by
the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's financial
difficulties. Under the Special Action Program, the financing plan of
several projects was revised to reduce required government contributions,
which had originally been set during the uranium boom period, in line with
the more limited resources available in the mid-1980s. Also, revolving
funds were introduced to help accelerate disbursements. Reflecting the
difficulties faced in the early 1980s, the disbursement ratio dropped from
59Z in FY80 to 16% in FY83. The ratio increased to 26% in FY84 following
the introduction of the Special Action Program. The disbursement ratio of
23% in FY85 is slightly below the ratio for Senegal (26%) and Mali (28Z),
but significantly higher than that for Burkina (13%), Sahelian countries at
a similar level of development.
22.       IDA's lending program in recent fiscal years has consisted of an
average of two projects per year amounting to about US$20 million. The
program has been small largely because of difficulties in project
preparation. The strong policy dialogue that has developed over the last
two years between IDA and the Government and Niger's eligibility under the
Special African Facility have led to a substantial increase in lending to
Niger. In addition to the proposed credit and a Structural Adjustment
Credit approved in February, we also plan to submit a Transport Sector
Credit for consideration by the Executive Directors later this fiscal year.
We hope to maintain an increased IDA lending level in the coming years.
provided that the Government remains successful in formulating and
implementing a program of comprehensive policy reform.
23.       An important focus of future IDA operations will be on continued
macroeconomic reforms and on their translation into policy measures at the
sectoral level. Lending instruments have been diversified to include
structural adjustment credits and other forms of policy-based lending, as
well as project lending operations that aim to assist the Government in
both increasing the efficiency of resource use and, in the long run,
expanding the country's productive base. Depending on the success of the
Government's efforts to implement the first phase of the structural
adjustment program, we would propose additional structural adjustment
credits in the future to extend the reforms to other areas. In addition,
sector-based lending operations would assist the Government in implementing
its sectoral strategies, in particular through: (i) revised investment
programs which emphasize maintenance and cost-effectiveness; (ii) restruc-
tured recurrent expenditure budge;s; and (iii) additional cost recovery
measures.



- 8 -
24.       Recent and future IDA operations reflect this approach.  The
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, approved in PY65, focuses on the
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and on increased cost recovery in
irrigated areas. A similar sectoral approach is being taken in the
proposed Health Project and will also be proposed in upcoming transport and
education projects. A planned Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
will provide technical assistance and training for the implementation of
parastatal reforms and will finance the rehabilitation of key public enter-
prises. Priority will continue to be given to agriculture, the key sector
for future growth of the country. Due to the absence of appropriate
technologies for rainfed cultivation, it is difficult to determine at the
present time how agricultural production could be strengthened in the long
term. The Government is, therefore, formulating a new agricultural
research strategy in connection with its structural adjustment program. As
a first step, IDA will assist in the implementation of this strategy
through an agricultural research project. Second, a number of new
production approaches will be tried through a small rural operations
project that will test various agricultural input packages under different
climatic and soil conditions.
PART III - THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
General
25.       The health status of the population in Niger is among the poorest
in West Africa. Life expectancy at birth is a low 45 years. Infant and
child mortality rates are both high at 139 and 28 deaths per 1,000 live
births, respectively, and account for 60% of all deaths in the country.
Maternal mortality is also high -- nearly 1,000 out of 100,000 pregnancies
result in the death of the mother. Preventable and treatable diseases such
as malaria, diarrheal disease, measles, meningitis, tuberculosis, pneumo-
nia, hepatitis. poliomyelitis and tetanus, combined with inaccessibility to
potable water, poor sanitation and malnutrition, are responsible for high
mortality, especially of infants and children, as well as for high morbidity.
Malaria, diarrheal disease and measles alone account for 60% of recorded
deaths, and are particularly severe among children under five, where they
are responsible for 80% of deaths. Malnutrition, especially of children
and nursing mothers, is a serious problem in spite of theoretical availability
of sufficient food in normal rainfall years, and has become worse as a result
of the recent drought. Population growth is estimated at 3% per year, with
the average Nigerien woman bearing seven children. In the absence of
effective population programs, Niger's population will increase from its
present level of 6.1 million to 11 million by the year 2000.
26.       The reasons for the poor health of the population are numerous:
(a) the environment is difficult, providing only meager subsistence to a
majority of the population; (b) coverage of health services remains low
despite major efforts to expand health infrastructure and a village health
worker program; (c) there is little access to health education and
information; literacy is low, and the population is often unaware of what
causes disease and what simple measures can be taken to prevent it; and
(d) nutrition and family planning concerns have been inadequately addressed
in government policy and through the health services. Moreover, financial
constraints and inadequately trained manpower limit the scope for rapid
improvements.



-9-
The Health System
27.       Since independence in 1960, government policy in the health
sector has emphasized primary health care and preventive medicine, and
precedence has been given to the delivery of basic health services to rural
areas, where the majority of the population lives. Consequently, a network
of rural dispensaries and village health worker teams has been established
and constitutes the base of the system. The key health providers are the
nurses that staff the rural dispensaries; they are responsible for a
variety of curative and preventive services, supervision and in-service
training of village health teams, health and nutrition education, and
recordkeeping. Where maternal and child health services are not available,
the dispensary nurse also is responsible for pre- and post-natal care.
Health problems that cannot be resolved at the village or dispensary level
are referred to medical centers, usually located in provincial capitals.
These centers are directed by higher-level nurses. There is also a
separate network of maternities and maternal and child health care centers,
located primarily in urban areas. Two national hospitals and five depart-
mental hospitals complete the national referral system. Drug procurement
and distribution is handled by the Office National des Produits
Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques (ONPPC), a state-owned company which is under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
(MOPHSA) and runs its own network of pharmacies and produces some drugs.
An informal network of ambulatory private drug merchants complements the
ONPPC network. A small private sector operates six clinics, four
maternities and two pharmacies in Niamey.
28.       KOPHSA is responsible for the formulation and implementation of
uational health policy and for management of the country's health system.
Operations are decentralized at the departmental level, where medical
officers head the seven departmental directorates of health, and at the
provincial level, where medical centers are located.
Health System Performance
29.       The health system has not responded adequately to the needs of
the population. While hospitals tend to be reasonably well provided for in
terms of staff and supplies, this has not been the case with local facili-
ties, which have suffered from relative neglect in recent years, when they
have borne the brunt of budget cuts. As a result, buildings and equipment
have deteriorated, drugs are scarce, and facilities are inadequately
staffed. Rural dispensary nurses are able to fulfill only some of their
responsibilities; lack of supplies and drugs seriously compromises their
effectiveness and consequently the population's confidence in their
services. Provincial medical centers are hardly more than oversized
dispensaries for lack of equipment and supplies. Furthermore, access to
either of these facilities is limited in practice to persons living within
a 10 km radius (about one-half of the total population). The population
beyond this area relies mostly on occasional servicea, mainly immunization,
provided by a small team of mobile units, and on traditional practitioners.
Until recently, there has been an almost total lack of in-service training
and technical super"-sion of middle and lower-level personnel.



- 10 -
30.       Drugs are expensive and scarce.  ONPPC imports over 4,000 drugs,
mostly in brand name form and in small quantities, and consequently, in
many instances, at unnecessarily high prices. Drugs are sold through the
ONPPC network to private middlemen and consumers, and to the MOPHSA, which
provides them free of charge in its facilities. However, the drug budget
of the Ministry has barely increased over the past five years, and the
Ministry is no longer able to supply its facilities adequately. As a
result, private expenditures on drugs at ONPPC outlets have risen sharply
as patients often have to buy their own medicine in order to be treated in
public facilities.
31.       The impact on health status of the village health worker system
is unclear. Village health teams were introduced in Niger as early as
1964, but it is only recently that coverage has attained some significance,
reaching 46Z of villages in 1984. The system has suffered from a lack of
supervision, and recently, the displacement of whole villages due to the
drought may have led to the dissolution of many health teams. The United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), which has been
providing the bulk of the financing for the system, is at present
reviewing it.
32.       Major health problems, particularly those affecting women and
children, are addressed through special health programs which have not met
needs. Before its recent revision, the malaria control strategy of
chemoprophylaxis of women and children was neither sustainable nor cost-
effective given the Government's resource constraints. Despite the
financial support of various aid donors, the diarrheal disease control
program suffers from a lack of proper coordination and management.
Immunization coverage is low (20% at best), and a national program of
immunization did not exist until recently. The delivery of maternal and
child health services is impeded by lack of equipment and logistical
support. Family planning services are not currently provided by the MCH
network.
33.       The inefficiencies in the health system highlight weaknesses in
MOPHSA. While higher and middle-level staff in MOPHSA are technically
competent, it lacks administrative and management skills. Moreover, MOPESA
suffers from weak planning, programming and project analysis, poor
information, and av ineffective system of monitoring and evaluation.
Consequently, investment decisions have borne little ielationship to
sectoral development objectives. In addition, manpower needs and recurrent
costs have not been considered when planning investments.
Health Expenditures
34.       Recurrent public expenditures for health totalled CFAF 6 billion,
or 7.5% of total recurrent outlays in 1984. The MOPHSA recurrent budget
accounted for CFAF 4.5 billion. Personnel costs have been steadily
increasing over the past few years as a result of ambitious training
programs of paramedical staff and of the policy which guarantees employ-
ment in Government to all graduates in health-related disciplines. To
accommodate the growth in personnel expenditures, spending on supplies has
been curtailed. Personnel costs represented 45Z of MWPHSA recurrent



- 11 -
expenditures in 1979 as compared to 522 of the 1985 budget, and would have
accounted for 64Z of the projected 1990 budget if government policy had
remained unchanged. At the same time, private expenditures for health
services have been increasing, as public facilities have not been able to
provide the necessary services. Private expenditures now total about half
of public recurrent expenditures; they are mostly for drugs and services
purchased from ONPPC and the private facilities.
35.       Despite stated government policy,  the balance of recurrent
health expenditures has gradually shifted in recent years towards urban
hospitals and medical evacuations, resulting in an undesirably strong
emphasis on curative, rather than preventive, health care catering to a
small urban minority. Some 50% of the budget allocation for personnel and
supplies are for hospitals, 40X for provincial-level medical facilities,
and only 10% for rural dispensaries. This is despite the fact that over
ten million consultations are held every year in dispensaries and
provincial level facilities, compared with 350,000 hospital admissions.
The investment budget has also emphasized the urban and hospital sector,
while the major category in the investment budget in the rural sector
represented operating costs of village health worker teams.
Health Policy
36.       The Government remains committed to a policy of primary health
care and preventive medicine, primarily aimed at rural areas. Emphasis is
given to expanding coverage and quality of health care services in general,
and to serving the most vulnerable segments of the population in particular.
The Government is aware of the imbalances that have appeared in the sector
over the past few years, and the need to correct them. Moreover, as budget
resources can be expected to remain constrained in the foreseeable future,
successful adjustment in the sector will depend on the Government's ability
to control growth in expenditures and to better match objectives with
programs. Under the structural adjustment program that the Government is
implementing with the assistance of IDA, a health sector strategy has been
included as part of the Government's Letter of Development Policy agreed to
in connection with the Structural Adjustment Credit (Annex IV). The
strategy reflects the emphasis on preventive rural health services in both
the recurrent and investment budgets. In addition, the strategy calls for
broadening the revenue base through new and improved cost recovery
measures, and building up an adequate institutional capability to plan and
implement policies and programs and effectively monitor investments and
operations. Through the proposed project, the Association would assist the
Government in formulating and implementing specific policy measures
supporting this strategy.
Nutrition Policy
37.       While the Government acknowledges that malnutrition is a major
health problem in Niger, data on the extent and distribution of nutritional
deficiencies 'n the country have not been collected systematically, and the
problem of malnutrition and its determinants is not well understood. This
contributes to the absence of any policy or national program to improve the
nutritional status. Some attention is being given to nutrition education



- 12 -
and recuperation of malnourished children, and a modest, but successful
nutrition pilot project is being run in about 60 villages in three
provinces by the Government with the help of the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO).
Population Policy
38.       In the past, the Government has for the most part regarded the
country's population growth rate as acceptable, although it is high.
Provision of family planning services for maternal and child health reasons
has been allowed, but these services have never been widely available or
actively promoted. Recently, however, the Government, in providing for the
basic needs of the population, has started to become concerned about
population growth, as it has faced greater financial difficulties and
self-sufficiency in food production appears increasingly difficult to
achieve. The Government is now actively considering a policy to check
population growth and reduce maternal and infant mortality. In this
connection, the Government intends to establish a national family planning
commission, introduce legislation on family planning and related medical
practices and family relations, and train health staff in maternal and
infant health care. USAID and the United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA) are assisting the Government in these efforts, which are
expected to result in the formulation of a national population policy.
Moreover, family planning services are gradually becoming available in
Niamey, where a National Family Health Center opened in November 1984. The
center, operating with assistance from UNFPA, provides limited family
planning services for the population in and around Niamey, and conducts
research and training in maternal and child care and family planning,
infertility and sterility problems, and demography. The response to the
center has been good and has led to over 2,000 new acceptors for
contraceptives between November 1984 and June 1985. The center is training
midwives in family planning methods and will expand provision of family
planning services to maternities and maternal and child health centers
around Niamey over the next 12 months.
External Assistance
39.       In 1984, external assistance to the health sector amounted to
US$4.5 million (US$0.72 per capita). Among multilateral donors, WHO
provides technical support and training to MOPHSA; UNICEF programs focus on
drug procurement, immunizations, nutrition and rural health; UNFPA supports
family planning activities and the European Development Fund (FED) assists
in a program to expand the health network. The most important bilateral
donors are France, which provides physicians, and USAID, which finances the
village health worker program and planning and management assistance for
MOPHSA. A number of other donors provide training, scholarships, technical
assistance, and equipment. Non-governmental organizations support basic
health services in the countryside. External assistance is relatively
uncoordinated, and more effective aid coordination will be necessary to
channel external funds to priority programs and projects consistent with
the structural adjustment effort. This issue will be addressed in
connection with the proposed project (para. 47).



- 13 -
Bank's Role in the Health Sector
40.       The proposed project will be the first IDA-financed project in
the health sector in Niger. The Association's intervention in the sector
is justified on several grounds. First, human resource development is
central to long-term development in Niger and should be an important
element of any strategy that aims at improving the country's very limited
development potential. Second, through its structural adjustment dialogue,
the Association has assisted the Government in the formulation of a health
sector strategy. The project will be the principal vehicle to assist the
Government in implementing structural reform within the health sector and
in developing population and nutrition policies. Third, while external
funding has been relatively abundant for the sector, it is uncoordinated
and leaves some priority areas and policy issues uncovered. Through the
project, the Association will encourage aid coordination and investment
planning in support of the sector strategy; IDA will complement donor
financing through its support of efficiency improvements in priority
programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The Government requested IDA financial assistance in the health
sector in February 1982. Project preparation began in mid-1983. Two
advances under the Project Preparation Facility have been approved (in
August 1983 and in February 1986) totalling US$1 million equivalent. The
proposed project was appraised in June 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington in mid-February 1986.  The Nigerien Delegation was headed by
H.E.M. Abdou Moudi, Minister of Public Health and Social Affairs. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5937-NIR) is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
42.       Through the proposed project, IDA will assist the Government in
introducing policy reform in the health sector. It will assist in the
implementation of Niger's structural adjustment program at the sectoral
level through studies and programs aimed at improving investment planning,
the allocation of recurrent expenditures, cost recovery, essential drugs
availability, sector management and aid coordination. It will also assist
the Government to define policies relating to population and family planning,
and nutrition. Moreo-ver, in support of the sectoral reform program, the
project will assist in improving the efficiency of priority health programs
relating to (i) maternal and child health care including the control of
malaria, diarrhea and other communicable diseases and family planning,
(ii) health education and community initiatives, and (iii) training
of health personnel.



- 14 -
Detailed Features
A. Policy Reform
43.       Investment Planning.  Under the Government's structural
adjustment program, the share of the health sector in the investment
program is projected to rise substantially, from 1.7X in 1984/85 to 4Z in
1987/88, reflecting the increased importance that the Government attaches
to human resource development. The composition of the investment program
for the health sector has been adjusted to improve coverage and quality of
health care services in rural areas and to emphasize rehabilitation, while
limiting new investments in physical facilities, including hospitals.
In connection with the proposed project, the Government will review
annually with the Association all investment expenditures made in the
health sector in the previous year and those proposed for the following
three years.
44.        Recurrent Expenditures.   Given the shortage of financial
resources, the reform program includes measures to restructure the
recurrent budget and to improve efficiency in the health sector. The
growth in the health sector wage bill has been curtailed to release funds
for materials and supplies. Priority is being given to staffing, equipment
and maintenance of facilities in the rural areas. To reduce transfer
payments, the Government is overhauling the system of medical evacuations
and has already introduced beneficiary participation in its financing. To
ensure an adequate balance between staffing and the availability of
materials and supplies, new entries into nursing schools have been sharply
reduced in 1985/86 from an initially programmed 140 to 20 students. This
curtailed enrollment will meet the higher level staffing requirements in
line with the projected expansion in the health system. As a result of the
reduction, the MOPHSA wage bill is now expected to stabilize at 552 of
MOPESA recurrent expenditures. This will permit increased expenditures for
materials and supplies. To alleviate pressure on the recurrent budget,
maintenance of small infrastructure will be gradually transferred to the
beneficiaries, and the feasibility of transferring some central budget
expenditures to local authorities will be examined. In connection with the
proposed project, the Government will review annually with the Association
the composition of its recurrent budget for the health sector as well as
the recurrent cost implications of its investment program.
45.        Cost Recovery.  Under the reform program, the Government aims to
increase cost recovery for public health services. Improved cost recovery
measures will take into account the ability of beneficiaries to pay, the
collection costs, and the type of user charge most appropriate for the
service provided. The Government has already enforced a stricter applica-
tion of the hospital fee system and is seeking ways to initiate cost
recovery at the local level. The proposed project will support these
Government initiatives, initially, by financing studies to (i) improve the
fee collection system in national and departmental hospitals, and
(ii) develop appropriate cost recovery measures for basic health services.
Subsequently, the project will support the implementation of cost recovery



- 15 -
measures. The Government confirmed that a plan of action for improved fee
collection in hospitals will be completed by August 31, 1986, and an action
plan for cost recovery from basic health services will be completed by
December 31, 1988 (see also para. 49).
46.        Essential Drugs Policy.  In an effort to lower costs and
increase availability of essential drugs (para. 30). the Government has
drawn up an essential drugs list based on a determination of needs by level
of facility. Furthermore, it has formulated an essential drugs policy,
which is in the early stages of implementation. The project would provide
assistance to implement this policy, in particular to improve the
procurement process, and educate drug prescribers and the population at
large about essential drugs. Under the project, alternative ways to extend
the drug distribution system will also be studied.
47.        Sector Management and Aid Coordination.  The analytical and
managerial capabilities of the MOPUSA will be strengthened through a
program of institutional development. Under the proposed project, studies
will be financed which will examine ways to achieve improvements in
(i) financial management; (ii) hospital management; (iii) cost
effectiveness of basic health services and operations; and (iiv) cost
effectiveness of proposals for the use of the university hospital
facilities. Efforts to improve management in MOPHSA are underway. The
Ministry has defined functions, staffing and financial requirements for
each level of service, and has drawn up job descriptions for each level of
staff.  In addition, with USAID assistance, MOPHSA has undertaken a staff
inventory, and has begun to develop a planning, monitoring and evaluation
capability in the Ministry, including development of management systems for
information, financial control and human resource management. IDA is
collaborating closely with USAID, and the monitoring and evaluation systems
which will be introduced under the project will be integrated into the
management information system. Also, funding will be available under the
IDA credit to support the manage-aent program being financed by USAID. if
necessary. Furthermore, to enstre that the Government, the Association and
all other donors coordinate their efforts around the sectoral strategy. the
Government will organize annual meetings of all aid agencies participating
in the financing of health sector activities in Niger.
48.        Development of Population and Nutrition Policies.  In addition
to project assistance to extend family planning services outside Niamey
described in para. 54 below, the Association will support the Government's
efforts to develop a policy to check population growth and reduce maternal
and infant mortality. To this end, IDA intends to collaborate closely with
UNFPA and USAID. Funds have been set aside under the project to test and
support the implementation of new ideas or initiatives for delivery of
services resulting from operational experienci and eventually lead to
program refinement and policy development. A similar approach will be
taken for the development of a nutrition policy: the project will support
pilot activities at the community level and the development of a nutrition
surveillance system; these elements are expected to contribute to the
formulation of a national nutrition policy.



- 16 -
49.        The Government will formulate action plans based on the results
of the studies discussed in paras. 45-48 in consultation with IDA according
to a specified timetable (Annex III, Section II1.3). US$3.5 million have
been allocated under the project to begin Jmplementation of action plans
based on the findings of these studies and on operational experience
derived from the project. Disbursement of these funds will be conditioned
on the Association's approval of proposals from the Government. The
Association will approve each plan of action taking into account its
relationship to the Government's health policy, its potential impact, its
financial viability, and the availability of resources to support
incremental operating costs.
B. Basic Health and Family Planning Services
50.       In support of the Government's policy of developing rural
services and preventive medicine, the project will assist in strengthening,
particularly in the rural areas, priority programs which address the most
urgent health problems affecting women and young children, the highest risk
groups in the population. These programs include control of malaria,
diarrhea and other communicable diseases as well as maternal and child
health care, including family planning. Program activities will be
reinforced through the project's health education, community initiative and
training components. Furthermore, the project will encourage integration
of these programs into a coordinated primary health care effort which is
the most cost effective approach of delivering these services. Project
support to these programs will include the rehabilitation of local level
health facilities, and the provision of equipment and materials, drugs and
vaccines, vehicles, technical assistance, training, logistical support for
supervision and monitoring, and incremental operating costs. Project
assistance to each of the programs is described below.
(1) Strengthening of Existing Services
51.       To reduce the incidence of malaria in Niger, the Government has
designed a national malaria control program with assistance from WHO. The
program is effective given the Government's financial and manpower
constraints, and will be supported under the project. It uses chemotherapy
with particular focus on children, limiting chemoprophylaxis to pregnant
women: it will permit children to develop natural immunities and will
retard evolution of chloroquineresistant strains of malaria. The drug
requirements will be reduced. dosages will be standarized and sufficient
quantities of chloroquine will be made available. The program also includes
surveillance of malaria incidence, drug resistance monitoring, enhanced
diagnostic capacity, staff training and community education. Activities
will be carried out bv existing institutions. An initial stock of
chloroquine that will cover estimated needs for one year (about CFAF 26
million) will be provided under the project; the chloroquine stock will be
replenished through revenues from its sales.  she Government will recover
all costs related to the sale of chloroquine. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government will establish an account in a commercial
bank to operate the revolving fund for the replenishment of chloroquine.
All proceeds from the sale of chloroquine will be deposited into this fund.
The account will be opened by ONPPC.



- 17 -
52.       The Government also has formulated, with WHO assistance. a
national policy to reduce mortality from diarrheal disease. While program
activities are financed b7 Belgium. Holland, USAID, WHO and UNICEF, there
is a lack of funding fo. program management and administration which will
jeopardize the efficient operation of a well-conceived and essential
program. Therefore, the project will provide technical assistance to
develop a program monitoring and evaluation capability and to assist in
periodic program evaluation and logistical support to the management unit.
53.       With USAID and WHO assistance, the Government has prepared an
expanded program of immunization, which will be an integral part of Niger's
preventive health care system. The program aims at protecting children
under five against measles, pertussis, poliomyelitis, diphtheria, tetanus
and tuberculosis; it is complemented by immunization of children up to age
15 against yellow fever. Pregnant women will be vaccinated against
tetanus. Project assistance to the program will allow MOPHSA to implement
the program, whose progress will be closely monitored, on a nationwide
basis. The Government will prepare and submit to the Association by
September 1 of each year an evaluation of the previous year's campaign,
including coverage achieved, and proposed target coverage for the following
year based on that evaluation. IDA agreement to the annual proposal will
be a condition of disbursement for funds to purchase vaccines that year.
54.       Niger's innovative approach to maternal and child health services
(MCH) goes beyond typical MCH services to include literacy programs and
income-generation opportunities for women, home economics instruction and
other health and nutrition education-related activities. This approach,
particularly the expansion of outreach services, will be supported under
the project. In addition. the project will complement assistance by UNFPA
and USAID to family planning (FP) through the extension of FP activities
outside Niamey; FP activities would be introduced in maternities and MCH
centers in all seven departments. The project will provide gynecological
equipment and contraceptives and specialized training in PP-related
disciplines for physicians, who will be responsible for program
development, training other staff and providing a referral capability for
FP and other MCH complications. In addition, under the project, FP
acceptance will be studied in three departments. The results of this study
will assist in refining the FP program including FP education. The project
will also promote population policy dialogue and development, described in
para. 48. and FP education, described in para. 56.
55.       To ensure adequate implementation of improved programs at the
local level, the project will alsc finance necessary rzpairs and re-equip-
ping of local level health facilities, which constitute the most cost-
effective means of providing primary health care services to the greatest
number of beneficiaries. As the MOPHSA budget has become increasingly
constrained, maintenance of local health facilities has suffered, and most
of them are in urgent need of repair. Also, facility design has proven to
be inappropriate to efficient use and maintenance of facilities. A
rehabilitation program for local level facilities has already been drawn up
by the Government. To improve maintenance performance in the future, the
project will provide technical assistance to design health facilities which



- 18 -
require little maintenance and to strengthen the maintenance system.
The Government will present to the Association for its approval a plan of
action for strengthening the maintenance system and new designs by
January 31, 1987.
(2) Development of Health Education and Community Initiatives
in Health and Nutrition
56.       Health Education.  The project will assist MOPHSA in developing a
health education program to support the Government's primary health care
strategy. The program will emphasize malaria control, diarrheal disease
control, immunization, maternal and child health care, family planning,
nutrition, and personal hygiene. Use will be made of the extensive radio
and television network in Niger, which reaches even remote villages, of
existing health facilities, and of community and youth groups. Audiovisual
materials will be prepared and used in curricula of functional literacy
programs of primary, secondary and paramedical schools, where health
education skills will be emphasized. Messages will be delivered through
the departmental directorates of health, in health facilities, by mobile
units, and by local organizations. Field research will be carried out
before preparation of teaching materials to ensure their adequacy. Also.
systematic feedback from the field will help improve the focus of the
health education messages on specific target groups.
57.       Community Initiative and Nutrition Policy Development.  The
project will support (i) the extension to an additional three provinces
(about 60 villages) of an ongoing pilot project for village-level nutrition
improvement, and (ii) the deavelopment of a nutrition surveillance system.
The village-level nutrition program being financed by WHO and UNICEF has
been in operation for about one year and has proven to be a successful
means of eliciting villagers' (particularly women's) interest in their
well-being. Under the project, interested villagers will receive financial
and technical support to undertake self-help activities such as small-scale
food production, storage and marketing, water supply and sanitation, and
health and nutrition education. The project will finance the salaries of
six trained staff to be based at the provincial level (two per province)
who have been trained and will act as resource people and initiate contact
with villages. It will also provide equipment and logistical support to
provincial level technical services which will provide villages with
technical support. The project will also finance equipment and materials
for village projects, but the villages will be financially responsible for
maintenance and other operating costs once the programs are in operation.
In addition, the project will help MOPHSA develop a nutrition surveillance
system which will be integrated into the health information system. The
Govermment will present to the Association for its approval a proposal for
a nutrition surveillance system and a timetable for its implementation by
March 31, 1987.
(3) Health Manpower Development
58.       The project will assist the Government to begin implementation of
its program for in-service training and field supervision of MOPHSA's
paramedical staff. Training programs will emphasize public health
management, administration of primary health care and maternal and child



- 19 -
health care, including nutrition, family planning and health education,
malaria control, immunization and oral rehydration therapy. In-service
training sessions, which will be carried out by departmental training teams
to be set up under the project, vill emphasize the same subjects. By the
end of the project implementation period, all MOPHSA paramedical staff will
have had at least two in-service training cycles. Training will be
reinforced through a program of regular supervision to ensure technical
support and guidance to field staff. Finally, funding will be provided for
specialized training in skills directly related to implementation of the
various programs financed under the project. The Government will submit a
program for supervising field staff by the end of December 31, 1986, and
will submit annual training plans, including study tour and fellowship
proposals, for review and approval by the Association no later than July 31
of each year.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       Total project cost is estimated at US$29.3 million equivalent net
of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$18.5 million,
or 62Z of total project cost. Base costs are in February 1986 prices.
Price contingencies for both local and foreign costs are as follows: 7%
for 1986 and 1987, 7.5Z in 1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in 1990, and 4.5% in
1991 and 1992. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied for all
expenditure items except national staff salaries and recurrent costs. Cost
estimates for rehabilitation works are based on recent quotations by local
suppliers.
60.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 25.1 million (US$27.8 million)
will finance about 95% of total project costs net of taxes. The Government
will meet the remaining (local) costs of US$1.5 million equivalent. While
there is no formal cofinancing for the project. IDA will collaborate
closely with other donors. As discussed above, the Government will
organize annual meetings of donors, and IDA will coordinate its activities
on population policy and health management vith USAID and UNFPA (paras. 45
and 48). A detailld breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project
Summary.
Cbst Recovery Under the Project
61.       When fully developed, the project will require annual incremental
budgetary outlays on the order of CFAF 484 million (US$1.3 million) in
constant 1985 prices. This represents an increment of 10.1% over the 1985
recurrent health budget. Most of the costs (81%) relate to the vaccination
campaign and the training activities (CFAF 325 million and CFAF 66 million,
respectively). To date, many vaccines have been financed by the donor
community on a grant basis and it is assumed that donor assistance in this
respect will continue. This would reduce domestic funding requirements by
CFAF 129 million. Gross incremental recurrent costs to be borne by the
Government will, therefore, amount to CFAF 355 million (US$923,000), or
7.4% of the 1985 health recurrent budget. However, savings totalling CFAF
526 million are expected from Improvements in cost recovery from hospitals
and local facilities estimated to generate approximately CFAF 200 million
and CFAF 100 million, respectively; revenues from the sale of chloroquine



- 20 -
estimated at CFAF 26 million annually, and savings of CFAF 200 million to
be achieved through the overhaul of the system of medical evacuations
(para. 44). Therefore, the project will result in overall savings to the
Government.
Project Implementation
62.       The project will be implemented over a period of five and
one-half years. The Ministry of Planning will be responsible for imple-
mentation of the policy reform component in collaboration with MOPHSA.
MOPHSA will implement the basic health and family planning component which
will be integrated into existing services. These services will be streng-
thened with local staff and technical assistance. Attention will be paid
to minimizing the need for incremental staff. The implementing agencies'
capability to execute the programs financed under the project will be
strengthened through the integration of programs into a primary health care
system, training, and the study and subsequent implementation of policies
to improve management and cost effectiveness of services, as described in
paras. 45-47 above. Moreover, the planning and management assistance being
financed by USAID and project support of monitoring and evaluation should
reinforce the Ministry's implementation capability.
63.       A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be attached to the Office of
the Minister of Public Health and Social Affairs. It will be responsible
for overall coordination of project activities. The PMU will consist of a
director, an administrator and an accountant, as well as support staff. It
will be assisted by a full-time, internationally-recruited specialist in
project management and implementation, and short-term technical assistance
to set up a project accounting system, audit project accounts and assist in
procurement. The establishment and staffing of the PMU and the setting up
of a project accounting system are conditions of credit effectiveness.
64.       Technical Assistance.  The project will provide a total of 146
months of technical assistance for the following project activities:
project management, 68 months; policy reform studies, 20 months; health
education, 27 months; training, four months; vaccination program, six
months; health facilities maintenance, six months; family planning, nine
months; diarrhea control program management, two months; nutrition
surveillance, three months; malaria vector control study, one month.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Procurement.  Because of their relatively small size and wide
dispersion in remote areas, civil works contracts, all of which will be for
renovation of local health facilities, will be awarded folloving local
competitive bidding (LCB) according to procedures acceptable to the
Association. However, for individual contracts valued under CFAF 5 million
(US$13,000 equivalent), prudent local shopping procedures acceptable to
the Association will be applied. The aggregate amount of the above
exceptions is not expected to exceed US$0.6 million equivalent. Contracts
for furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, drugs and vaccines will be
awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) according to



- 21 -
procedures acceptable to the Association. Exceptions to ICB will be for
(i) contracts with a value of less than US$75,000 equivalent, each of which
will be awarded after LCB according to procedures acceptable to the
Associatior; and (ii) small value items costing less than US$10,000
equivalent per contract that will follow prudent local shopping procedures
acceptable to the Association. The aggregate amounts of these two
exceptions is not expected to exceed the equivalent of US$700,000 and
US$200,000, respectively. Purchases of medical equipment, vaccines and
drugs will be made folloving UNICEF's international procurement procedures,
also acceptable to the Association, in the event that they expedite
procurement and limit costs. A list of items to be procured through UNICEF
will be determined and agreed upon during project implementation.
Othervise, the items will be procured through ICB, except where there is
only one existing supplier. Procurement arrangements are summarized in
Annex V.
66.       Items will be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender
documents by the Association prior to award will not be required for civil
works contracts as their cost is not expected to exceed US$150,000
equivalent in any single case. However, such review will be required for
contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, drugs and vaccines
costing more than US$50,000 equivalent each. This is expected to result in
prior review by IDA of about 70% of goods contracts. Where ICB procedures
are used, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a margin of preference of
15Z or the existing applicable rates of duties, whichever is lower, over
the c.i.f. prices of competing foreign suppliers.
67.       Disbursements.  The credit of US$27.8 million equivalent will be
disbursed over seven years against the following items net of taxes:
(a) civil works (US$2,400,000): 100% of total cost:
(b) furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, drugs
(US$6,000,000): 100% of total cost;
(c)  vaccines (US$4,400,000): 100% of total cost;
(d) technical assistance studies, fellowships, training
(US$6,900,000): 100% of total cost;
(e) funds for Implementing results of studies and innovative
activities (US$3,500,000): 100Z of total cost;
(f) operating costs (US$2,000,000): 90% initially, declining to 30%
toward the end of the project;
(g) refunding of the project preparation advance (US$1,000,000); and
(h) US$1,600,000 will be unallocated.
68.       Special Accounts.  To facilitate disbursements, an amount of US$1
million will be advanced from the IDA credit and deposited in a Special



- 22 -
Account held in a local bank under the control of the Project Director.
The Special Account will cover about three months of estimated project
expenditures. In order to ensure that the Government's counterpart
financing is promptly available, the Government will establish a separate
replenishable Local Advance Account in local currency of about CFAF 30
million (US$78,000 equivalent) representing the approximate amount of
Government counterpart financing for three months of project activities.
Opening of this account and depositing the initial amount of CFAF 30
million is a condition of credit effectiveness.
69.       Accounting, Auditinig and Reporting.  The PMU will maintain all
project accounts, which will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to
the Association. Certified cop-es of the accounts and the auditors' report
will be forwarded to the Associat4on for review within six months of the
end of each fiscal year. Quarterly reports on the progress of imple-
mentation will be submitted to IDA by the Project Management Unit.
Project Benefits and Risks
70.       Benefits.  Through its support of the Government's health sector
reform program, the project will help correct imbalances that have appeared
in the allocation of resources in the health sector in recent years.
Investment and recurrent expenditures will be directed increasingly towards
the rural population and for primary health care; financial constraints
will be eased as public funds devoted to medical evacuations abroad are
reduced and as efficient administrative mechanisms for recovering part of
the cost of curative services are developed; a national essential drugs
policy will improve the availability of drugs and reduce their costs to the
state and the individual consumer. Project support for the institution-
building effort in MOPHSA will provide a permanent capability for better
planning, policy implementation and donor coordination.
71.       In support of the reform program, the project will strengthen key
maternal and child health programs, complemented by the development of
community initiatives and by the upgrading of personnel skills, which will
contribute to improving the health status of the most vulnerable segments
of the population. Support for family planning activities will expand
services in urban areas and extend them to rural areas and facilitate
policy development. Project support of pilot nutrition activities and
nutrition surveillance development will lead to the elaboration of a
national nutrition policy.
72.       Through the strengthening of existing services, the project will
improve the quality of health services available to 3.4 million people
(over half the total population of Niger). Under the expanded immunizatiou
program, an estimated 1.2 million children nationwide, representing about
75% of children under five years of age, will have been vaccinated against
major childhood diseases by the end of the project implementation period.
73.       Risks.  The project will be the first Bank-financed operation in
the sector in Niger. There is, therefore, a risk of delays in implemen-
tation. However, the Government is strongly committed to the sectoral



- 23 -
reform program and anxious to move ahead with project implementation.
Local staff responsible for project implementation is well-qualified.
Moreover, with financing from two PPF advances, a number of steps have
been taken to ensure expeditious project start-up. In addition, an initial
project implementation workshop is planned prior to credit effectiveness,
and during the first year of implementation, an intensive supervision
effort is anticipated.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 26, 1986



- 24 -                                     ANN I
T AB9 LE9 36                                   Page I of 6
IECKN                  - SOCIAL INOICATOIS DATA SHUT
HOST                     (NOS( AECET ESTIATE)
IlCERT         LOW INoCU  ArICA          NESS #02HZ
19601k     1970ab  ESI^TNAL          SOUtH oF 3*165       ArRIcA s. oF  sAMA
AA ITWESA    SQ. rJ)
nrtAI.                            1267.0      1267.0     1217.0
AItIOILTURAL                       125.0       130.0       133.2
Sw     CU NP  (U53)                     ..          ..       240.0              23S.8                    1063.8
inw owumnu a cairn
(KILOGNAS OF OIL EQUIVALIUY)         3.0        16.0       32.0               62.3                    561.5
POA m an ML Sala
POPUIlATION.aiO-TEa  (THousANDs)   3234.0     4146.0     6062.0
DREAO POPULATION1 C OF TOTAL)        5.0         6.4       13.M               20.1                     32.0
POPUlATION PNOJECTIOUS
POPULATION IN fEAR 20O0 (HILL)                           10.5
STlTIOIT PoPULoN (KILL)                                  40.0
POPULATION flEVIWIN                                       2.0
PoPMATtoll Oem
R SQ. M.                           2.6        3.3         4.6               33.2                     65.1
P  SQ. 1X. AGRI. LAND             25.3        31.9       ".1               112.8                    124.8
POPULATION ACE STUCTUES (Z)
0-14 YU                          44.7        46.2       45.9               46.0                      45.6
15-64 YUS                         52.6       51.1        51.4               50.8                     51.5
65 AND ANOM                        2.5         2.5        2.5                2.9                      2.7
POPLATUIN GROM  rN   (Z)
TOTAL                              1.2         2.5        2.9                2.8                       2.9
CREA                               3.0         6.2        6.9                6.4                      5.1
CiRD  BIRTH uRATn (ER TRWUS)        47.3        49.6       52.0               47.2                     47.0
CRUDE RAE NATE (PER TlWOlS)         26.0        24.2       19.7               17.8                     15.0
COS *PEODUCfIO  RATE                 3.3         3.3        3.4                3.3                      3.2
FAMILY PULNN
ACCEPTONS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
GUNS (C Or HARRIEM WSSR)           ..         ..          1.0 i/             3.3                      6.4
I000 - mmmcmn
ISDX OP FOOD MOD.      CAPXTA
(1969-71-100)                      112.0       96.0        U6.0               83.3                     82.9
PE CAPITA SOMY Of
CLOrES CZ Op NQUIUTS)            100.0        86.0      100.0               67.7                     96.5
PEOTINIS (CUANS rPE DAT)          65.0       56.0        71.0               51.9                     55.4
OF  CII ANUIL AID PULSE          18.0        16.0       26.0  c            13.7                      16.5
CHE  (ACS 1-4) DEATh aT             51.0        61.0       28.0               23.1                     16.6
LIFE SEPCT. AT NIC  (TEARS)         40.6        41.4       A4*9               47.8                     52.0
INVAE HOST. RATE (ME ?M)           191.0       171.0      19.0               119.5                    108.6
ACCSS TO SWI WATER (STOP)
TOTAL                              ..         20.0        3.03              27.1                     42.4
URBAN                              ..         3.0        41.0#              63.5                     67.5
RURAL                              ..         9.0        32.0 id            1w.3                     35.8
ACCES T ET  UTA DISPOSAL
(X Or PULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          1.0        7.0 Id            26.5                     Z1.9
UtW                                ..         10.0       36.0 71            65.4                     57.7
RSNAL                              ..          ..         3.0 A             20.8                     20.7
POPULATIO  PE PHYSIICIAU         92400.0    60090.0    3879.0 f            27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PE WUES    PERSO             9240.0 If  7260.0      4650.0 0A          330.4                    2459.6
P. Pr  HOSPITAL U5D
TOTAL                           2480.0      2300.0     1640.0 L.          1273.6                    9l.1
READ                               ..        370.0      *20.0 7            426.2                    368.6
IUAL                               ..       430.0      2020.0 A           3292.5                   4371.9
ADH5SIONS PE HOSPITAL  D            10.4 lb    3'.7         ..                 ..                      27.2
AWNACK SIZE oFr HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
UUU                                ..         ..          .                   ..
BANAL                              ..          ..         .                   ..
AWAC  NO. OF PSNSONS/RO
TOTAL                              ..          ..         .                   ..
URNA                      ..          ..         .                   ..
BAAL                               ..          ..         .                   ..
scesz or WULNGS ni  EI.ET
m.                                 ..          .. ..
WUL                                ..          ..         .                   ..



-25-                                           ANz I
TAI  LK 2Ai                         ji2Page 2 of 6
NICER       - flOt  INDICATORSDATA SWUM?
mica                                   u rtma CtL  (SZCn1Wn  AVERAGES) La
evIl                      (C? RECEC T MTINITIUT) /b
ac3%1           Uls tames1 AMICA          MIDDLE taNOMw
196di      iviolk gaiiiTal,          soon I7   AAR VA      A1FICA S. Ur bANAMA
ADJUMSD U0170T RATIOS
ERInARYs  TOTAL                     1.0       14.0          3                 7.3                      91.7
ALit                     7:0        14.0        29.0 A             17.b                    100.U
FWWA.LE                  3.0        9.0         17.0 f             54.9                     53.2
SECONDARY: TAl                     0.3         1.0         4.0 1             13.5                      17.3
MAIA                     1.0         2.0       51.0                17.                      Z5.0
pleat:                  a.i          ho         2.0                9: .1                    14.3
VOCATIOtAL Cl Or scAwRY)             4.3         2.7         1.J                13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TIAO(U RATIO
PRIMR                             43 0        M.0         413.0               ".                       4L1,
SRCNDR                            11.07       20.0        28.U /c            2?.4                      Z5.5
ASaCa CAz5slneoUsaaD FoM             0.3         1.4         2..  .             3.6                      20.3
34IG REcZIVESt/ThOUSAID MP           1.0        35.0        45.9                ISA                     1U7.L
TV URCEMVEUSIThIJUSAJD 10F           .-          ..           1.2               2.e                      2Q.O
SUSFAPER ("DAILY CSIUIUL
INTErZST") ctmCULAueU
PER rHOUSAND POPULATION             0.3         0.5         0.9                 5.0                     13.4
C lNM   AssAL ATtMADNC/CAPITA        ..          0.2         ..                 O.                        0.4
Jams -a
SOTAL LJ0 FOICE CTr30)             1014.0      1320.0     1900.0
F31  (PIRCLET)                     9.0         9.7        10.2               34.2                      36.2
WRIQULTURE tCRucNT)               91.0        93:0        91.0               77.5                      54.5
INWST  (PECc)                       1.0        2.0         3.0 af             9.7                      18.3
PAITICEPATtON LtT CMCS)
TOTAL                              32.9        31.3       31.3                39.3                     3b8A
PALS                              60.2        5.1         57.3               50.9                      47.1
FEMLE                               5.9        0.1         0.3               23.1                      27.2
ECOMIC  CPEIECT RtATO                1.4         1.5         1.5                1.3                       1.3
:2Rec      or PRIVATE INCM
REEVSD n
1N01           OV INldS             .- OF                  ..-.
aSz 20X a, nlousuous#              ..          ..          .....
LOU=S2PorIUS3OLDS                  ..          ..
LOUIS 402Or MCUSUIOLOS             .
- umw a
ETKATS   ss 5Ul  DoEv  IWIE
LEL  (USE PRI CAPITA)
UR                                 ..          ..        111.0 t            105.5                     59U.7
RURAL                              ..          .-          ..                p5.0                     275.3
snAmD -ruLTI  lOVT? IxWE
LEVEL CUSS FR  CAITA)
UR                                 ..          ..          ..               113.1                     545.0
RURAX'                                         '' ...S.                      07.0                     201.1
ESTIMATED POP. ouLOW AnSOUr
1011?! INCODM LEVE (Z)
URII .A.                                                   .                 34-. 
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..                01.6
Ot AVAILASLX
Nr APPLICAJLE
NOTES
/t  The poop eer_ag    fer aft lu11tetC Wre  ,eisuer welt$ i er1g_tc  ean_. CanreP ot emetries
song the indicators dupen  -   uvutls tq of dues nd se an    iet.
lb   ISnae. atber  oe stud. Det. for lo        late   r tmses 1959 ass 1181; "Dat ter 1970" be"mtwe
199 and 1971; s_d data for 'Nut RecentiRnte between 1041 ant 1I43.
Ic  1977; Id 1930;  a 1973; aL 1925 JA  1,'0: &  1104: LA 190.
Jus. 1955



ANNEX I
- 26-                                   Page 3 of 6
DEFINfliONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noun: Altbough the data ae drawn from sounx geerally judpd the mot authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not br interatiuonally
comprable because of the luck or tandardired definition and cocepta used by di*ffrent countnrs in colleting the dea. Tuhe datb arc, nonethelss, usful to
deaibe orda of magnitude, indicate trendrs and diartnn    cerCftain major digec betwen coumtri.
The refence groups are (1) the ame counoty group or the subject country and (21 a country group with somewhat higher averag income than the ountry
group otbe ubjectountry (excpt or-High Incone Oil Exporter group where -Middle Income North Africa and MiddleEast- ichon beauseor.uonger
socio-cultural affinities). In the refernce group dat the s*ngs ae population uwighted a*ithmetic mnas for ech indicator and shown only when majority
of thec coumiries in a group ha dau for that indicator. Sie the coverag ofcountne among the indicson delends on the availability ofddta and is no uniform,
caudon must be excrsed in relating avermes orone indictor to anothr. These avgs are only useful in comparing the value orone indicator at a time amons
the coutmry and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude irth Rare (per thosaN)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland wates;k.    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Deth Rate (per thtumand)-Number of deaths in the year
AricEtral-Estimatc of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reptdwdia Ruse-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year aveages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World    .Oy Panniug-Acceptor. Anal (sheunds)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                          berof acceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fandly Pfana-Usrs (peret ofjr id  wea)--The percen-
petroleum, natural gs and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal dec-   tage of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 1549, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATSlnCS                                 groups.
Total Popultion, Mid-YHear (thousand)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970,  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urban Pepttio  (percent of total)-Ratio Of urban to total     IndexofFoiod Prodtio PerCapta (1969-71= 1WJ-Index ofper
Uaopulation; different definitions of urban art may affec compar-  capta annual production of all food commodities. Production
popiuty of data among countris; 1960o 1970 and 1983 data       excludes animal fieed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populton Projeceras                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  excluded); they comprise cerals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabks. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production oreach country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national average producer price wdights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gneralized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Capita Suppy f Calories (percent of eqvurenseno)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestc produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and th: rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momen:uw-ls the tendency for population growth to   hr Capita Supy of Protein (grs per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grans of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should bc animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grains of animal protein as an
Populato Densiy                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capie Protein Suly From Ania and Poise-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricultural lad-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived fromn animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age Strutre (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-   Chil (ages 14) Drath Rie (pr thousand)-Number of dcaths of
ingage (15-64years). and retired (65 years-andover) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popation Growtk Rate (perceatD-otal-Annual growth rates of     from life tablet 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83.   HEALTH
PIpulton Growth Rate (percent)-'hmn-Annual growth rates         Lift Expetcy at Bth (yearn-Numbcr of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27-                                   ANNE I
Page 4 of 6
at the dte ofaf it birth we to sty the uame throughout its life;  Pwpl-teacArr tatio - pr,cary, ad secolor)-Total studen en-
1960, 1970 and 1963 data.                                     roled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbe  of
1f   M.mN   lat   (Pr ir)Nuber of infants who die             tachers in the consponding levls.
before reaching ooe yer of aS per t d live births in a gves
year. 1960. 1970 and 19U3 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Acces. to Si*  Whe  (p. io  f          J-EiI  wham,  d        ?uer Ca  (Mr thoumand popalm)-Passenger car con-
_nd-Number of people (totaL it, and rural) witb TOsofbek    prie motor can seting less than eight persons; ecdudes ambul-
access to sfe watr spy (inelude tad  u         water or       ances. huares and military vehices.
unatd but uimon        ud water such U that from proected     Rasdb Aeceirers (Per tkpmpobtilem-All types of reivers
borehols, supr   d aamtay will) a percntages of thei rapec-   for radio broadcass to enaal pulic per thousand of population.
tree populations In ans urbane a public fountain or standpost  e des un-liuensd receiver in countries and in yeasn when
locaW teno more than 33D meter fro, a house may he considered  registratio or radio aut wau in effect. data for recnt years may
l being witin norable acceme   of that house. In rural   b    cn not be compamble since most counries abolished licensing.
_sonable  o  vould imply that the houswife or membes of the
bouseOld do not have to spend a disproportionate pan of the day  TV ReWIi, (Fr iPeFgdokr a)-TV rivers ar broadca
in kftbm  the &=Wit water needs                               to enea public per thosnd population; excludes unlicensd TV
Aiorn fto Enreo  Diose (viaer   of   b e-0     C,9  de        recevers in countrine and in years when registration of TV sets was
_d ml-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by
eacret disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspap  Ch'euis u pgr p wui d papolotae)-Sbows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collction and disposal. with or  Se circultion of 'daily pneral interest newspaper.- defined as a
witbout  atment. of human eacreta and waste-water by water-   priodical publition devoted prmarily to recording general news.
borne sstes or the use of pit privies and simitar installations.  It is considred to be -daily' if it appears at lest four times a week.
Ibpo luupr p.  Peow-Ptipulation divided by number of pr       CLamw Amwi AenAmm  per Cap& per Y _e-Based on the
tisingphysciansquaifled from amedicalschool at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
hp_de    per Nwsiq Pameo-Flopulation divided by number of     drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
pactcing male and feme graduate nure. assistant nurses
practial nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Pi p  l d   ,cr Hoqi*l Ad-tor4 wham, _d r*-Population  '                Foc     onsmically active perns. in-
(totaL  hrbe, and rural) divided by their respetive number of  duding armed rorces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hobspt beds available in pucand priva  pnral ands pesixd      students. etc., covering popuation or all ages. Definitions in
bospita  and rehabilitadion  ener  Hospitals are esablishments  various countries are not comparblc 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
pemancdtly staled by at kst one physician. Esablishments prov-  Am_  (percti)-Freniile labor force as peicentage of total labor
iding principally cutodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. include hlth and madil centes not pemanendy stalfed  4pkuhw  (percaur)-Labor force in fanring. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asnt. nurs, midwife etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960, 1970 and 1980
which oler in-patient accomodation and provide a limited range  data.
of wadical facilitie.                                          ilasry (pmemrm)-Labor force in mining. constrution. manu-
Ad. 'ssm p.r ioepd Red-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 datL
Patkpoolon Rdmr (percomr)-aeea  mk. _dffwi-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male and feanle labor force
A9qr  SHa of zNmkeb (p.wns p.r  ee- a1               a,       as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
adrwu--A householdconsis ofa group of individuals who share   respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These ar based on ILO's
livins quarns and their mai nme   A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of tbe population, and
may not be induded in the housebold for satistical purposes   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Ape dg Naekr of Peaus per Ro umro, wam. and rersi-            Ec.wmic DepOreay Raro-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persa  per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwelingp exclude
non-permanent stuctum and unoccupied parts.                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
POWe_r  Of DWeLEqs Wit Ekeikip-.t  Wam ad Wul-                Perceuq  of Toref Dsposabk li.  (bet in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellingp with eectricity in living quares as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by tota house-
tap of totl. urban. and rural dwelling respectively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AEusUudEdweviAr Ride                                          The folowing estimates ae very approximate measures of poverty
Phmry shoo - totl. mak and fmale-Gross total. mal and         level and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femakl eWnollment of al  s at the primry levd as percentages of  Ezimared Absolute Poverty lacew Levl ([SS per copes)_-wram
respective prry shool     popuktions. While many countries  _ d emral-Absolute poverty income level is tat income level
comider primary shool age to be 6-11 year others do not. Th   bdeov which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differene in country pracsm in the ags and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
ae rfleaed in the ratos given. For some countries with universal  Etdmtd RelWae Pep Iwome Levr  (US per cqpita-whm
educatio  gos enrollment may exceed 100 peet since some       aud rwo-Rural rdative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's sandard prmary-school  aveage per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustmnent for higher cost of
Scomaivy schol - total. nude andfemale-Computed as above;    living in urbanas.
sondry education requires at last four yeas of approved pri-  Erimaud Pbpaioit Ieiw Absolue   erty Iceame Lewe (per-
may instruction; povides  neael vocton, or teacher training   crar)-r4  iad rarl- Percent of population (urban and rural
insrctions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 year of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.'
ece cous are generally exduded.
Vocatkmd Enroui (pereant of secoidry)-Vocational institu-               Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tio  indude technical industraL or other progams which operate       Economic Analysis and Projections Depament
ninependenty or a deparmets or scondary institutions.                                 June 1985



- 28-                                                       ANNMC I
N IUCI. I I   ECIUSNIC   INDICATOR$                                       Page  5  of  6
knot Growth  aten () at Cestit PriCe
bat                         cktosl                Est.                   ProJected
Inicator                             13 Val           13       1M2      1933     I94      115      193       1937    1913      IR       11
STIONI  KMccwis
Greas Doestic rPrdKt                    1770         l.      -0.3S    -2.Ua   -14.01     7.11     4.0t      1.31     14.      1.9S     1.1
Aqriculture                            017         O.       1.31    -3.1   -20.1    14.4        4.31     2.21     2.3n      2.4      2.52
Iniustry                               305      -20.21    -7.n      0n   -21.1        7.31     1.21     1.31     1.51     1.4       1.51
o4 ihichs  nining                    144      -29.01   -12.3       3.41   -IL.21     0.U      0.01     O.O     0.01      0.0S     0.0L
Servicu                                574        7.91    -0.31    -0.1   -14.91       9.3      5.4      0lI      0.41      0.      L.3
lport lain ad  uties                   74       -5.41     2.51   -17.01   -21.1S      1.01     0.42    -L.n      4.3      4.3n      4.51
Cma"tian                                1473        19.11    -3.71     4.21    -7.11    -2.21    -1.11    0.01       1.21     1.41     1.92
6ras Fixed Capital Fwratim               239       -1U.9Z   -33.31   -14.0   -17.71    -9.31       1.01    3.4       4.62     2.31     1.71
Eperts of  eah                           371         2.n   -1L.31      3.21   -20.1    -9.0z    -4.2       3.01      1.72     1.5      1.4
Imparts of k6d                           422       -1.4    -11.31   -t4.1      -7.2     11.51   -17.11     4.01     Cl        0.7n     0.31
PRICE                                                 1"1      12       133      113      195       l4       197      13         3      1190
SOP Dcflatr I1S1 1001)                              3.5    12.3        100    106.7    114.9    125.0   134.0   143.0    153.0    144.0
Exchange Rate (CFtIIU)           lnavrac)          271.7    323.    31.1   437.0    472.4
Export Price Index 1193.1001                       100.4    99.      100.0    104.7    108.7    111.4   111.1   123.4    131.0    136.4
Import Price Index (193100)                       101.4   10Z.9    100.0      1.7    101.5   103.0   111.3    120.1    129.7    139.7
Term  of Trade lda  U13.1001                         t.      9.3   100.0    107.0    107.1    100.2   104.9    102.9    101.0    97.6
mare 3of     at  arket Pricn  IO)                 Avrwr bimal Incrmm 1u      )
(at current pricn)                              (at cestat prices
Category                                    1970     1175      1M       19M      19"            197075  1975-00  1 I5  19 0
gross Tbtic Product                             100.0S   100.0    100.0t   100.01   100.41               0.31     7.1U    -2.4       2.11
Wriculture                                    42.01    44.      42.41    44.5      43.31              2.31     5.32    -0.52      2.7n
Industry                                      10.11    27.51    22.72    17.21    15.7               22.42     3.12    -8.9       1.41
of idck:  Rliing                             0.11    5.32    12.41       3.21     7.41            130.7     24.92   -10.51      0.01
Services                                      29.21    21.7    29.n 7     .0       30.42             -5.SS    14.2i   -0.n        1.S2
Import r.aixoutin                            1i.n       4.51   S.02       3.41      5.5S            -24.31    11.41    -8.51     2.N
Shuen in S6P
Cosuqption                                    36.71    36.9Z    77.4u    97.1I    19.1t               0.32     4.72     1.41     0.n
Gros Fixed Capital Feratiae                   14.11    21.32    23.32    12.MI     I1.                5.51    12.92   -19.01     3.12
Epwrti of eds                                 12.3    19.5    22.52    20.21    ILSS                  9.91    12.11    -5.91     1.n
Imports df oeds                               23.3    25.9n    31.32    24.41    22.2Z                9.02    10.42    -5. t   -2.21
PILIC FINAIME                                                  175      1        195      190
liKlius of Curret CFF)
Crret blv                                              20.2     64.1       3.0     ".3
Currt Ereditures                                       17.3     50.3     70.4      73.1
Current   plus (2 or 3f Icit 1-H                        2.9      13.3     -2.4     26.2
Capital Espediture                                       1.5    70.2      55.0     94.0
Foreip Financing  (Ncldilal                               -      40.4     52.5     47.3
reschodaliq



- 29-                                                                ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
ALANCh E   IF   PAYNE*II                     a d   E rE1110IL   CAPITAL   and   DENY
ktul                  Est.               Projactad
1911    - 192       1933     194      I25       1934     1917      YII      2m        1m
._ - ------------------                   ....        .       .  .. ....  .... .    .. ...  .... .. ..... ............_
SUIIIf   OF  LME  OF  afAMETS    ;                                         iPilioins of Currmit US *1
ExWpts of  eds                                497.4      39.1    370.9    308.3    264.3    295.2    317.2    342.0    361.0    ;99.3
of slcics  Uruiu                              37n.5      279.2    293.7    230.3    215.3    249.2    261.7    274.5    23.7          02.9
riculture u.                       124.1      90.1      41.4     54.0      33.b    34.9       40.7     51.7      42.6     43.4
Li MtKk.
liwts of hos                                 -6U2.1    -533.7  -422.5   -340.3   -357.7   -330.1   -379.0   -421.0   -447.0   -435.3
of abichi  Food                                29.4       27.7     32.3      25.2     74.9      37.5     33.9      40.5     62.1      43.7
Other Cmsur lw_    s                94.9      91.3    124.9      93.4     14.4      99.4    104.5    109.0    115.2    121.0
Petrol n   d an  its Products      135.4     119.2      34.6     27.0      33.7     40.7     41.6      42.1     41.7      4U.9
lterndiats o   Capital  eods     185.7      295.5    11.9    152.2    115.2    123.0    145.0    144.2    137.1    211.5
!krvices lnot)                               -125.2    -111.7    -93.5    -92.4    -92.0    -92.7    -91.7    -89.1        -3.6    -96.4
Truasfors                                     109.4      109.0     80.2      73.3    100.1     04.9      19.1     97.      113.3   122.1
Privatt                                     -46.4      - 7.5    -39.4    -32.1    -Jl1.3    -32.9    -37.5    -40.3    -43.5    -47.0
Public                                      154.9      144.5    119.5    105.4    139.4    117.7    12.3    137.9    151.9    179.1
Current kcciwt BI1alace                      -1712.     -175.3    -65.0    -51.9    -77.2    -53.5    -60.7    -O.5    -34.2    -50.5
Current  ccount Balance                      -326.1    -339.1   -194.5  -257.1   -216.4   -171.2   -189.0   -191.4   -211.1   -229.4
nclmding Publtc 7ransc rs
Fiaoncing Itm, Total                          206.4       45.4     76.4      4;.9     Z4.7      3.1      27.2     4;.9       25.3     74.4
NLT lows [nut)                                236.6       a5.      39.4      44.5    :4.3       7.5      27.2     43.9      12.3      76.4
Official-soce loans Inet)                   :54.1       48.0     66.5     56.4      32.4     15.t      27.7       .3      57.9     70.3
Private-weur   loams (netl                  -11.2      -22.2    -28.1     -9.9      -1.2     -9.3       0.0      4.9       5.4       7.4
Other Capital iat)                            -21.2       19.6     39.1      -2.7      0.4     -4.4       0.0      0.0       0.0       4.0
Overall Balance                            36.6    -129.9      11.4    -1.9   -52.5    -50.4    -53.S    -14.6           9.1     :5.9
bternal Capital and oebt
Srosn 0isbursemti                             279.3      204.0    116.3    112.9    107.o
Public                                    284.1      114.6     97.7    113.5      a3.:
Exteraal dbt
Outstanding and DOuiburs"                   962.3      920.0    J13.6    915.4    97b.3
Debt Service on NLT
Total (tbforg Rescheduling)                 15.9     193.9    1:9.0    151.0    134.7
of abacc:  Interest                         S.2I     11.9       3.17    62.0     57.3
Prinlipal                      70.7      112.1      74.3    98.0      77.4
Renht*hiiagl                                                      9.0     49.0      ;8.5
Thtl (alfter  sC1uedtIllaii                 113.3      193.9   1229.0    12.0       94.^
Paysoets as I of Eaport,   w/ Ret1ch.        30.9?      52.53    34.4?    45._1    46.7?
of 6oods aid Non F4tor   with Poe'                               :.?     0.51      I.t
Sorvtcen
..- --- h -_-.-E . -.----.--.----.--.._------.-.------------.--_-_--...-   -_-_...-..--....--------_--
will
93234-



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                               Amount (less cancellation) c/
Number     Year      Purpose                    IDA a/ b/         Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed                78.87
885      1979       Livestock                  12.0                  4.3
886      1979       Feeder Roads               10.0                  1.6
967      1980       Dosso Agr. Dvt.            20.0                 17.3
1026      1980       Second Maradi Rural Dvt. 16.7                   10.0
1151      1981       Education                  21.5                  7.7
1225      1982       Industrial Development   16.0                    9.2
1226      1982       Second Forestry            10.1                  7.0
1309      1983       Water Supply               6.5                   4.9
1394      1983       Fourth Highway            23.6                   8.2
1493      1984       Economic & Financial       11.7                  9.7
Management Improvement
1511      1985       Power Eng. and T.A.        7.5                   7.6
1618 d/   1985       Irrigation Rehabilitation 9.3                    9.3
Total                          243.7                 96.8
of which has been repaid   (3.4)
Total now outstanding
and held by IDA            240.3
Total undisbursed                                    96.8
a/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
h/   Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
cI   Computed at the September 30, 1985, rate of US$1.05940=1 SDR.
d|   Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1985
Loan                                          Amount
Number    Year    Borrower          Purpose   of Loan a/  Equity a/  Undisbursed
(US$ Million equivalent)
619-NIR   1982   Les Moulins        Flourmill   2.22         0.33         0.33
du Sahel S.A.
(MDS)
a/   Amount at time of approval.



- 32 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I:     Timetable of Key Events
1.   Identification:  A reconnaissance mission visited Niger in June 1980;
this was followed by a sector mission in November 1980 which produced
a draft health sector memorandum, discussed with the Nigerien autho-
rities in February 1982. Subsequently, the Government requested Bank
financial assistance for the sector.
2.   Project Preparation:  Ministry of Public Health and Social
Affairs; March 1982 - May 1985
3.   Appraisal:  June 1985
4.   Negotiations:  February 1986
5.   Target Effectiveness:  July 1, 1986
SECTION II:    Special Project Implementation Action
None
SECTION III:   Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) through ONPPC, establishment of an account in a commercial bank
to operate a revolving fund for the replenishment of chloroquine
for the anti-malaria program (para. 51);
(b)  establishment and adequate staffing of a PMU and establishment of
an appropriate project accounting system (para. 63); and
(c) establishment of a Local Advance Account and deposit of an
initial amount of CFAF 30 million in it (para. 68).
2.   Conditions of disbursement:
(a) disbursement against implementation of proposed activities,
based on study results or operational experience derived
from the project, will be conditioned upon the Association's
approval of written proposals from the Government supported
by a feasibility study (para. 49); and
(b) disbursement against purchases of vaccines will be conditioned on
the Association's approval of the proposed target coverage of the
immunization program for the following year (para. 53).



-33 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3,   Other conditions:
(a) by the dates indicated, the Goverment vill present to the
Association detailed plans of action based on the following
studies to be financed under the project (paras. 45-49):
(i) hospital fee system (August 313 1986);
(ii) cost recovery of basic health services at the local level
(December 31, 1988);
(iii) extension of drug distribution system (March 31, 1989);
(iv) financial and hospital management (March 31, 1988);
(v) cost effectiveness of basic health services and operations
(May 31, 1987); and
(vi) cost effectiveness of proposals to use the university
hospital facilities (September 30, 1986).
Cb) the Government will review annually with the Association (i) all
investment e:penditures made in the health sector in the previous year
and those proposed for the coming three year3, with particular
emphasis being given to recurrent cost implications; and (ii) allo-
cation of budget and manpower resources with regard to its support of
health sector strategy (paras. 43 and 44);
gc) the Government will organize annual meetings of all aid agencies
participating in the financing of health sector activities in Niger
(para. 47);
Cd) the Government will ensure that all proceeds from the sale of
chloroquine will be deposited in the fund for the replenishment of
chloroquine (para. 51);
(e) the Government will submit to the Association for its review and
approval: (i) an evaluation of the previous year's vaccination
campaign, including coverage achieved, and the proposed target
coverage for the following year based on that evaluation, by Sep-
tember 1 of each year (para. 53); (ii) a plan of action for
strengthening the maintenance system, including efficient, low cost
design of rural health facilities, by January 31, 1987 (para. 55);
(iii) a program for supervising field staff, by December 31, 1986
(para. 58); (iv) a nutrition surveillance system and a timetable for
its implementation, by March 31, 1987 (para. 57); and (v) annual
training plans, including study tour and fellowship proposals, by
July 31 of each year (para. 58).



- 34 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
HEALTH SECTOR STRATEGY L/
1.        Structural adjustment in the health sector aims at restoring the
balance between the objectives assigned to the sector and the priorities
that emerge from actual resource allocation in the health sector.
Imbalances are particularly noticeable between: (i) curative and
preventive health care; (ii) urban and rural health services; and
(iii) outlays for personnel and supplies (declining supplies/personnel
ratio).
2.        Consequently, priority will be given to a more rigorous planning
of human, physical and financial resources, to pursue the objectives of
improving basic health services (strengthening services at the intermediate
level and in outlying regions) while taking into account the budgetary
constraints for recurrent as well as investment expenditures:
(a)  Human resources:  define more precisely the tasks and duties of staff;
assign para-medical graduates with priority to the existing basic
health facilities in order to improve their effectiveness; adjust
training output to the rate of infrastructure expansion, and determine
annually the number of entrants to para-medical schools based on
staffing requirements by types of institutions, beginning with the
1986 school year, and expand training of existing staff to all levels.
(b) Infrastructure: specify the functions of the different health care
institutions; limit investments in hospitals to rehabilitation
projects or improvements in services; to this end, the Government will
study: (i) the possibility of relocating certain services of the
national hospital of Niamey to the university hospital complex; and
(ii) the creation of specialized services, with particular regard for
budgetary imbalances. Awaiting the result of this study, the
budgetary appropriations for hospital services in Niamey will be
maintained at their fiscal year 1985/86 level in real terms; new
construction of basic infrastructure will be programmed to improve
health care coverage (population density, accessibility), while
respecting budgetary constraints to finance the ensuing recurrent
costs; priority will be given to rehabilitate infrastructure and
improve maintenance.
(c)  Supplies:  reduce the number of drugs imported by ONPPC and give
priority to the purchase of generic drugs through international
competitive bidding and to hospital packaging; expand the distribution
network for medicine;
td) Financial resources: improve financial management at all levels;
study the feasibility of transferring certain types of expenditures to
local communities starting in fiscal year 1985/86; reduce the
1/   The Health Sector Strategy given in paras. 1-4 is part of the
Government's Letter of Development Policy, dated December 30, 1985.



- 35 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
expenditures for medical evacuations abroad through a reduction of
unit costs and the introduction of cost-sharing by the beneficiaries
based on socio-professional classifications, beginning in fiscal year
1986187; apply hospital fees strictly; establish and apply service
charges at the local health care level.
3.        The investment program for 1986-88 will give priority to
strengthening existing facilities, to the creation of new facilities in
deprived areas, and to public health programs. A new project will
strengthen the training and retraining of personnel.
4.        With UNPPA assistance, the Nigerien Government will formulate an
action program to implement the recommendations of the national seminar on
population. Finally. efforts will continue to develop a national nutrition
policy.



-36 -                       ANNEX V
NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
* Procurement
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method          Total
Project Element                        ICB    LCB    OTHER    N/A a/   Cost
Civil Works                                 -       2.0      0.6       -         2.6
(2.0)   (0.6)               (2.6)
Furniture, Office Equipment,                 1.1    0.4      0.2       -         1.7
Material                                    (1.1)  (0.4)   (0.2)                (1.7)
Medical Equipment, Drugs,                    8.6    -                  -         8.6
Vaccines                                    (8.6)                               (8.6)
Vehicles                                    0.6    0.3       --        -         0.9
(0.6)  (0.3)                        (0.9)
Technical Assistance, Fellowships,          -        -       5.4       -        5.4
Studies                                                     (5.4)               (5.4)
Training                                    -       --       2.1       -        2.1
(2.1)              (2.1)
Project Preparation Facility                -                --        1.0       1.0
(1.0)    (1.0)
Funde for Implementing Sub-projects         -                --        3.5      3.5
(4.5)    (3.5)
Operating Coats                             -       -        --        3.5      3.5
(2.0)    (2.0)
TOTAL                                10.3      2.7     8.3       8.0      29.3
(10.3)   (2.7)   (8.3)    (6.5)   (27.8)
a/   Not applicable.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



F71-~~~~~~~~~~-
x9Y.SS9       II i ix EIIm  
,~~~~ I_    _   rI n
)~~~~~~HZ
N  o           I        /         'I
~~~~~~~~ ,
.                        'q'      <
1I1                          N -X''
, IInI



