Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15818
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1668-NIR)
June 25, 1996
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1995)
Currency Unit =   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$            =   500 CFA franc
CFAF I million=   US$2,000
SDR I          =   US$1.496
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARIEP          Antennes Regionales de l'Education pour la Sante (Regional Satellites for Health Education)
BDRN           Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger (Niger Development Bank)
CNAT           Centre National Anti-Tuberculeux (Anti-Tuberculosis National Center)
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DEP            Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation (Directorate of Studies and Programming)
DPhL           Direction des Pharmacies et Laboratoires (Directorate of Pharmaceuticals and Laboratories)
EPI            Expanded Program of Immunization
EPS            Education pour la sante (Health Education)
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid Agency)
FP             Family Planning
FED            European Development Fund
HIV            Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MOPH           Ministry of Public Health
MOPHSA         Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
ONPPC          Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques (National Chemical and
Pharmaceutical Products Bureau)
PMI            Protection maternelle et infantile (Mother and Child Health)
PMU            Project Management Unit
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
STD            Sexually Transmitted Disease
WHO            World Health Organization
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
The CFA franc is tied to the French franc (FF) at a ratio of FFI to CFA franc 100 following the January 12,
1994 devaluation of the CFA franc from a ratio of FF I to CFA franc 50. The French franc is currently
floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................1
I. INTRODUCTION .I
A. Macroeconomic Setting                                .1
B. Bank's Role in the Sector                             .1
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES    ..
A. Original Project Objectives .1
B. Project Components                                 .2
C. Credit Covenants and Special Agreements                       .2
D. Evaluation of Project Objectives                         .3
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS                                     .3
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability                .3
B. Summary of Costs                                  .5
C. Financing Arrangements                               .5
D. Implementation Schedule                               .5
E. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Implementation                  .5
F. Assessment of the Bank and the Borrower's Perfornance                 .6
G. Assessment of Project's Outcome                           .7
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED .............................................................8
A. Findings of Project Implementation Experience ......................................................8
B. Future Operations and Sustainability ....................... ...............................9
C. Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Niger ...................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .................              ........................................... 11
APPENDICES:
A.      Mission's Aide-M6moire
B.      Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C.      Map IBRD 19460R
This docunent his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



1



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1668-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Project in Niger, for which
Credit 1668-NIR was approved on March 20, 1986, in the amount of SDR 25.1 million (US$27.8 million
equivalent). The Credit became effective on November 3, 1986. Due to various factors, including the
January 1994 devaluation, which had an impact on various components of the project, the project was
closed on June 30, 1995, 24 months behind its scheduled closing date of June 30, 1993. Of the total
negotiated credit of SDR 25.1 million, SDR 24.8 million (US$37.1 equivalent in 1995) has been
disbursed and SDR 0.32 million has been canceled, of which SDR 0.3 million due to misprocurement;
and SDR 0.02 million due to unused credit funds at closing.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Ms. Denise Vaillancourt (Task Manager, AF4PH) of the
Africa Region and composed of several members of the completion mission: Ms. Johanne Angers
(Operations Analyst, AF4PH), Ms. Regina Amadi (Consultant), and Mr. Aboubacar Magassouba
(Consultant). The ICR was reviewed by Messrs. I. Porter, Division Chief (AF4PH), S. Singh, Acting
Operations Adviser (AF4DR), and A. Cisse, Country Economist (AF4CO). The Borrower submitted its
input to the ICR in a report dated May 16, 1996 (Appendices). The Borrower's acceptance of the ICR
was received in April 1996 during an appraisal mission of the Second Health Project which is recorded in
the mission's aide-memoire.
Preparation of this ICR was started during the Bank's completion mission in June/July 1995. It is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Borrower's
Progress reports, Bank's supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
relevant records, workshops with the various stakeholders and beneficiaries, and discussions with key
Government officials, stakeholders and Bank staff. The Borrower participated in the preparation of the
ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire, by organizing and supporting a
series of evaluations of the project's preparation and implementation stages, which reflected a spectrum
of perspectives, including those of communities, service providers, MOPH technical and managerial staff
at the central and departmental levels, the unions, and an independent evaluator. During the Bank's
completion mission, the Government also organized an evaluation workshop, at which the various
perspectives were presented and discussed. In addition, the Government reviewed and commented on
the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1668-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND SECTOR
1.    Niger, a large land-locked country, is one of the poorest countries in the world, with social
indicators which are among the lowest in the Sahelian countries.  It had a population of about 8.7
million in 1994, about half of which is less than 15 years old, and which is growing at about 3.3 percent
annually. Subsistence agriculture has traditionally dominated the economy, with livestock also providing
an important source of income and export receipts. During the uranium boom of the late 1970s, Niger
went through a period of rapid growth, during which the public sector assumed an important role in the
economy. In 1981, however, uranium prices plummeted and Niger's production decreased. Moreover,
poor economic policies pursued by the Government in the boom era left in their wake structural
deficiencies in the economy. With assistance from the Bank, in FY86 the Government prepared a
structural adjustment program aimed at restoring and subsequently maintaining minimum acceptable
growth in the medium and longer term. (paras 1. 1-1.2).
2.    The health project (Credit 1668-NIR) marked the beginning of the Bank's involvement in
Niger's health sector and was designed to support the Government's structural adjustment objectives at
the sectoral level: (a) more efficient use of resources; (b) mobilization of resources through cost
recovery; and (c) policy reform to improve overall efficiency and effectiveness of the health sector (para.
1.3).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
3.    Original Project Objective. The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower to improve
the performance of its public health sector through: (a) adoption of appropriate mechanisms for
investment planning and recovery of costs; (b) design and implementation of policies in the fields of
population, nutrition, maternal and child health care, and control of communicable diseases including,
inter alia, malaria and diarrhea; and (c) implementation of training programs for health personnel (para.
2.1).
4.    Project Components. Part A of the project supported health sector adjustment aimed at
strengthening financial and operational management, improving basic health services, increasing cost
recovery, improving essential drugs availability and developing population and nutrition policies. Part B
supported improvements in basic health and family planning services through activities to: (a) improve
facilities and strengthen priority programs; (b) develop health education and community initiatives in
health and nutrition; and (c) develop health manpower (para. 2.2).
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. Conditions of effectiveness were as follows: (a)
through the intermediary of the National Chemical and Pharmaceutical Products Bureau (ONPPC),
establish an account in a commercial bank to operate a revolving fund for the replenishment of
chloroquine for the anti-malaria program; (b) establish and adequately staff a Project Management Unit
(PMU) and set up an appropriate project accounting system; and (c) establish a local advance account
and deposit an initial amount of CFA franc 30 million. All conditions of effectiveness were complied



ii
with and the project was declared effective on November 3, 1986 (para. 2.3). Special covenants or
agreements were included to help promote achievement of project objectives (Table 10).   Two
amendments were made to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). In October 1987, at the
Government's request, the DCA was amended to assist in the financing of a population census. An
allocation of 750 million CFA franc equivalent was made available in two tranches deposited in a special
account (Special Account B) managed by the Ministry of Plan. Another amendment was made in
December 1993 to provide for 100 percent IDA financing of the Project Management Unit's (PMU)
operating costs (para. 2.5).
6.    In April 1994 in view of the limited financial resources remaining in the credit, agreement was
reached on the transfer of activities foreseen under this project to the ongoing population project (Cr.
2630-NIR). Activities transferred to the population project supported the following programs: (a)
nutrition; (b) health education; (c) social development support; (d) expanded program of immunization
(EPI) and social mobilization; (e) mother and child health; and (f) family planning (para. 2.4).
7.    Evaluation of Project Objective. The project's objective was consistent with Niger's strategy
for economic recovery and development, which was based on adoption of a structural adjustment
program, and was responsive to Niger's priority health problems. However, the objectives were
ambitious, covering a wide range of sector issues simultaneously at the different levels of the health
sector (policy, design and delivery of services, manpower development, infrastructure, etc.) in a country
with very little management and institutional capacity and in which the Bank had little or no sector
operational experience. Nevertheless, the objectives were, on the whole, well targeted to produce the
desired results i.e., policy reform and its application and implementation nationwide, and improvements
in priority services.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability.  The objective of assisting the
Government in introducing policy reform in the health sector within the overall framework of its
structural adjustment program was substantially achieved. Studies aimed at improving sector policy
were carried out and were instrumental in the development and implementation of key reform measures,
including: according hospitals greater financial and managerial autonomy and prompting improvements
in resource mobilization and hospital management; adoption of a law in June 1995 on cost recovery for
the non-hospital sector; increased participation of communities in financing and management of health
services; development of a sector plan, which espouses the district (decentralized) health approach. Most
program objectives were also substantially met. Project investments contributed to improvements in the
quality and coverage of basic health services. Program objectives for vaccination coverage and training
were not, however, fully achieved (paras. 3.1-3.4).
9.    Prospects for the sustainability of project interventions are good, thanks both to its success in
building management capacity and to its success in demonstrating the potential for mobilizing resources
through cost recovery. The experience of designing and carrying out studies and operational research
and of the design and implementation of policy reform emanating from these studies and research
contributed to significant improvements in the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) capacity for sector
strategic management. Capacity was also strengthened through long-term training provided under the
project in planning, management, and public health and through the creation of directorates responsible
for health sector planning and pharmaceutical policy reform (para. 3.5).
10.   Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. At appraisal, the total cost of the project
(Table 7A) was estimated at US$29.3 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties). IDA's contribution at
appraisal was estimated at US$27.8 million and the Government's participation at US$1.5 million. Total



iii
credit amount disbursed at ICR preparation (US$37.1 million) was higher than anticipated at appraisal
due to changes in the US dollar/SDR exchange rate (Table 4). The Government's contribution of US$1.6
million equivalent, was higher than anticipated at appraisal. USAID contributed the equivalent of
US$1.2 million under a Health Sector Grant to finance five studies planned under Part A of the project.
In May 1994 the Kingdom of the Netherlands granted the equivalent of US$770,000 to provide
budgetary support to the project (paras. 3.6-3.8).
11.   Implementation Schedule. Project preparation was fairly long: five years elapsed between the
first reconnaissance mission (May 1980) and the appraisal mission (June 1985) (Table 3). Project
effectiveness was delayed from July 14, 1986 to November 3, 1986 due to some delays in meeting
conditions of effectiveness. The original closing date was June 30, 1993, but the Credit was not closed
until June 30, 1995, after two extensions. An outstanding balance of SDR 0.02 million (about US$0.03
million equivalent) was canceled effective November 14, 1995 (para. 3.9).
12.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation. Three categories of factors affected the Government's
capacity to implement the project: political events; financial constraints; and organizational/managerial
constraints. The political events, which occurred during the life of the project, caused activities in all
sectors to slow down and even to come to a standstill. The high turnover of Health Ministers during the
life of the project (eight Ministers in nine years) caused numerous delays, as each new Minister revisited
and questioned project objectives and implementation progress. From project launch through 1991 the
PMU was plagued with serious management and financial problems, and with a high turnover of project
coordinators, both of which caused considerable delays in project implementation. Financial constraints
included lack of counterpart funds and cash flow problems. These constraints were mitigated through an
amendment of the DCA that allowed 100 percent financing of operating costs of the PMU and through a
Dutch Grant used to finance local costs. The recruitment in 1992 of a new project coordinator and a
technical assistant for the PMU enhanced project implementation and accelerated achievement of project
objectives (paras. 3.10-3.12). Management/organizational capacity to implement a project of this
magnitude and complexity was inadequate. The highly centralized structure of the MOPH, heavy
bureaucratic and administrative procedures and the vertical structure of health programs left
decentralized administration and services with, at best, a very passive role in project implementation.
13.   Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance. The Bank adopted a
comprehensive approach by placing the project in the context of Niger's health reform, which, in turn,
was part of the overall structural adjustment program of the country. Project identification, appraisal,
design, and supervision were satisfactory. However, institutional capacity to carry out a project of this
nature was underestimated. The Bank did not devote adequate resources to field supervision, both in
terms of quantity and in terms of adequate skills mix to address and resolve the several key issues to
project implementation, particularly those concerning financial management (para. 3.13).  The
Government of Niger's performance in project preparation was satisfactory.  The Government's
commitment to reform in general, and to the project in particular, was largely responsible for the
successes/impacts recorded in spite of Niger's limited management and institutional capacity, and
financial resources. Overall rating of the project implementation fluctuated between 2 and 3 (paras. 3.14-
3.15).
14.   Assessment of the Project Outcome. Significant advances were made with project assistance,
particularly with regard to its contributions to policy formulation and reform and to the strengthening of
capacity in planning and service delivery (paras. 3.16-3.18). Among the most noteworthy of project
outcomes are: the production of a coherent and strategic National Sector Development Plan, hospital
reform, adoption of a cost recovery law, and, in selected areas, improved quality of curative and
preventive services, increased capacity for receiving and treating patients, intensification of health



iv
information education and communication activities and increased involvement of communities in health
sector activities. Lack of baseline data and weak monitoring and evaluation did not permit an assessment
of the project's impact on health status in areas receiving project assistance.
IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
15.   Investments in service quality improvements (infrastructure, program development, and training)
were not fully exploited or consolidated due to a lack of technical support and follow-up that should have
been provided through the implementation of a well-designed supervision program. Likewise, a lack of
follow-up and evaluation of training investments left MOPH incapable of ensuring optimal utilization of
newly acquired skills. The lack of a clear policy on preventive activities and on health education caused
them to receive low attention and priority under the project, despite the importance attributed to them in
project design and documentation. Greater emphasis on all of these--supervision, training evaluation,
policy on prevention and promotion--would have contributed to enhanced service quality (paras. 4.1-
4.2).
FUTURE OPERATIONS
16.   The application of lessons learned in future sector investments were extensively discussed with
the Government and various other stakeholders as these were an important focus of the participatory
evaluation process. It is encouraging to note that these lessons are reflected, both by the Government
and by the Bank, into their strategies for the development and implementation of future health operations
in Niger. The Health Sector Development Plan for the period 1994-2000 captures the essence of a
number of key lessons learned, including: (a) the need to decentralize sector management and
administration and integrate more fully programs and services through the creation and support of health
districts; (b) the need to strengthen capacity in strategic management and management of resources; and
(c) the need to identify and utilize more fully the existing (often untapped) potential of the various
stakeholders and contributors to health sector performance. Project achievements in capacity building
and in the mobilization of resources will contribute to ensuring the sustainability of this and future
interventions (paras. 4.5-4.7).
LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN NIGER
17.   . Three main lessons are learned from this project.  First, Project objectives should be
sufficiently modest and based on a sound knowledge of the existing situation. Clear targets and
indicators should be set at the outset. A rolling planning process would accommodate both more rigor
and more flexibility during project implementation.
18.   Second, inadequate management/institutional capacity is found to be more constraining of good
sector performance than resource availability. More effort must be devoted to develop capacity in
management of resources and in decentralized strategic sector management in order to improve sector
effectiveness. In addition, decentralization and integration of programs and services and a clarification
and complementarity of roles and responsibilities at all levels of the health system (including those of
stakholders outside of the public health system) are also crucial to sector effectiveness. Implementation
experience also revealed the importance of integrating and "mainstreaming" project activities more fully
into MOPH operations, both at central and decentralized levels.
19.   Third, financial participation of the communities has caused them to be more involved in, and
more demanding of, health service delivery, prompting the public service to strive to be more client-
oriented. This process should be nurtured and supported in future operations (paras. 4.3-4.4).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1668-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.    Macroeconomic Setting
1.1    Niger, a large land-locked country covering an area of 1.27 million km2 and 600 km away from
the closest seashore, is one of the poorest countries in the world. It had a population of about 8.7 million
in 1994, about half of which is less than 15 years old, and which is growing at about 3.3 percent
annually. The country's social indicators are among the lowest in the Sahelian countries. Subsistence
agriculture has traditionally dominated the economy with millet and sorghum taking up to 80 percent of
the cultivated area. Livestock also provides an important source of income and export receipts. Except
for the Sahelian drought periods, the country has been self-sufficient in staple food production.
1.2   The discovery of large uranium deposits in the late 1960s triggered the development of an
important mining sector which expanded rapidly under highly favored conditions in the world market
during the late 1970s. At that time, uranium became the country's principal foreign exchange earner
amounting to 70 percent of exports and a major source of Government revenues (around 12 percent). As
a result, Niger went through a period of rapid growth during which the public sector assumed an
important role in its economy. Unfortunately the uranium boom ended in 1981, when prices plummeted
and Niger's production decreased. Poor economic policies pursued by the Government in the boom era
left in their wake structural deficiencies in the economy. Financing constraints, exacerbated by
overspending during the uranium boom, highlighted the urgent need to address the underlying structural
issues of the economy. The Government, with assistance from the Bank, prepared a structural adjustment
program (FY86) aimed at restoring and subsequently maintaining minimum acceptable growth in the
medium and longer term. The program included policy reforms to increase the efficiency of existing
investments, improve resource allocation and develop the resource base of the country.
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector
1.3   The Health Project (Credit 1668-NIR) marked the beginning of the Bank's involvement in
Niger's health sector and was designed to support the Government's structural adjustment objectives at
the sectoral level: (a) more efficient use of resources; (b) mobilization of resources through cost
recovery; and (c) policy reform to improve overall efficiency and effectiveness in the health sector. Prior
to its effectiveness date of November 3, 1986, 28 IDA credits had been approved for Niger for a total
amount of US$363.7 million equivalent, including a structural adjustment credit in the amount of US$60
million equivalent.
II.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    Original Project Objective
2.1    The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in improving the performance of its
public health sector through: (a) adoption of appropriate mechanisms for investment planning and



2
recovery of costs; (b) design and implementation of policies in the fields of population, nutrition,
maternal and child health care, and control of communicable diseases including, inter alia, malaria and
diarrhea; and (c) implementation of training programs for health personnel.
B.    Project Description and Components
2.2   Part A of the project supported health sector adjustment through: (a) the financing of studies
aimed at strengthening financial and operational management, improving basic health services,
increasing cost recovery, improving essential drugs availability and developing population and nutrition
policies; and (b) the funding of proposals for implementing policies emanating from the above-
mentioned studies or operational experience. Part B supported improvements in basic health and family
planning services through activities to: (a) improve facilities and strengthen priority programs; (b)
develop health education and community initiatives in health and nutrition; and (c) develop health
manpower.
C.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements
2.3    Special covenants or agreements were included to help promote achievement of project
objectives (Table 10). Conditions of effectiveness were as follows: (a) through the intermediary of the
National Chemical and Pharmaceutical Products Bureau (ONPPC), establish an account in a commercial
bank to operate a revolving fund for the replenishment of chloroquine for the anti-malaria program; (b)
establish and adequately staff a PMU and set up an appropriate project accounting system; and (c)
establish a local advance account and deposit an initial amount of CFA franc 30 million. All conditions
of effectiveness were complied with and the project was declared effective on November 3, 1986.
Conditions of disbursement were as follows: (a) disbursement against implementation of proposed
activities, based on study results or operational experience derived from the project, were conditioned
upon IDA's approval of plans of action prepared by the Government in collaboration with IDA and
supported by a feasibility study; and (b) disbursement against purchases of vaccines were conditioned on
IDA's approval of the proposed target coverage for the following year's immunization campaign.
2.4    Agreed Changes. In April 1994 in view of the limited financial resources remaining in the
Credit, agreement was reached that certain activities foreseen under the project would be undertaken by
the ongoing population project (Cr. 2630-NIR), since these activities were also programmed. The
activities programmed under the health project and transferred to the population project were as follows:
(a) nutrition program, specifically, training of professional staff, literacy, and dissemination of the
national policy; (b) health education program; (c) social development support program; (d) EPI and
social mobilization program; (e) mother and child health program; and (f) family planning program. Five
of the six studies planned under Part A of the project were ultimately financed under a USAID Health
Sector Grant but remained an integral part of project activities. Responsibility for the management and
execution of policies studies was given to the Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (MOPHSA)
rather than the Ministry of Plan (MOP), as originally planned. A number of other program activities
were ultimately supported under the project including: activities related to HIV/AIDS, purchase of anti-
tuberculosis drugs, a survey on youth, and the population census. The project's closing date was
extended in 1993 and 1994.
2.5    Amendments. Only two amendments were made to the Development Credit Agremment
(DCA). In October 1987, at the Government's request, the DCA was amended to assist in the financing
of a population census. An allocation of 750 million CFA franc equivalent was made available in two
tranches deposited in a special account (Special Account B) managed by the Ministry of Plan (MOP).



3
Another amendment was made in December 1993 to provide for 100 percent IDA financing of the
PMU's operating costs.
D.    Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.6    The project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's and Niger's strategy for economic
recovery and development, which was based on adoption of a structural adjustment program; and the
objectives were responsive to pressing needs of the sector. However, the objectives--and the consequent
project design--were ambitious, covering a wide range of sector issues simultaneously at the different
levels of the health sector (policy, design and delivery of services, manpower development,
infrastructure, etc.) in a country with very little management and institutional capacity and in which the
Bank had little or no sector operational experience (Table 2). Objectives were neither sufficiently
specific nor clearly understood by those responsible for their realization. Considering that the project
was the Bank's first health investment in Niger, preparation, especially objective setting, could have
benefited from (a) a better assessment of the Borrower's capacity to implement the project; (b) more
specific performance criterialindicators for monitoring achievement of project objectives and
implementation, which should have been established jointly with Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
staff; (c) better baseline data for setting realistic objectives and indicators; and (d) a more serious
consideration of other donors' interventions in the sector (USAID, UNFPA, WHO, UNICEF, FAC).
This would have enhanced donor coordination in the health sector in Niger. Nevertheless, the objectives
were, on the whole, well targeted to produce the desired results i.e., policy reform and its application and
implementation nationwide, and improvements in priority services.  Furthermore, project design
(particularly for Part A of the project) was flexible, allowing for lessons to be drawn and immediately
applied during the life of the project.
1II.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
3.1   Sector Policy Objectives. The objective of assisting the Government in introducing policy
reform in the health sector within the overall framework of its structural adjustment program was
substantially achieved. Studies aimed at improving sector policy were carried out and were instrumental
in the development and implementation of key reform measures (Table 6). National hospitals were
transformed into etablissements publics a caractere administratif and, as such, were accorded greater
financial autonomy. This reform has prompted improvements both in resource mobilization and in
hospital management practices. In June 1995 the National Assembly adopted a law on cost recovery for
the non-hospital (primary health care) sector, which encourages resource mobilization for primary health
care and improved management of resources and services. Pilot studies have already demonstrated, as is
the case in other countries, that community participation in the financing of health services and in the
management of collected revenues provides communities with some leverage in their demand for quality
services and incites the health system to be more client oriented and thus improve that quality. Studies
and operational research carried out under this component contributed to an improved appreciation of the
strengths and weaknesses of the current health system and to the development of policies on nutrition,
drug supply, malaria control and diarrheal disease control. These contributions are fully reflected in the
Government's national health sector development plan for the period 1994-2000, which provides a
coherent framework for sector reform, and which has been instrumental in attracting and effectively
coordinating external assistance to the sector.
3.2   Program Objectives. Project investments to upgrade the technical skills of service providers and
to strengthen infrastructure and technical equipment of selected health facilities contributed to



4
improvements in the quality and coverage of basic health services. In addition, a number of priority
health programs and services were strengthened both through improved strategic management and
through direct support to implementation activities. Notable achievements in this regard include: the
creation of an interministerial committee for malaria control; the definition of a national, multisectoral
nutrition policy; the creation of a national program on diarrheal disease, strengthening of the health
education program at the central and departmental levels; the initiation and successful implementation of
community participation in health and nutrition activities. Among the quantifiable results of these
interventions (presented in detail in Table 5) are: greater awareness and action on the part of
communities for understanding and taking charge of their own health issues and problems; an increase in
immunization rates and in prenatal consultations; and improvements in maternal health indicators.
3.3    Not all program objectives were fully met, however. Training achievements fell short of targets
(Table 5). A supervision plan was developed, but never implemented, with funds from Part A of the
project, as had been envisaged. While departmental level health directorates received equipment and
material for health education activities, these are not being effectively used. No meetings of donors was
held throughout the life of this project in an effort to coordinate aid to the sector as was provided for in
the DCA. The revolving fund for chloroquine never functioned properly.
3.4    Physical Objectives. The project has been particularly successful in rehabilitating the number of
health facilities planned at appraisal. Of the 113 health facilities slated for rehabilitation under the
project, 110 were rehabilitated and equipped in the seven departments covered by the project (Agadez,
Diffa, Dosso, Maradi, Tahoua, and Zinger, and in the metropolitan area of Niamey). The civil works
program suffered a slow start when many factors causing delays in the implementation of the program
were encountered. These factors were delays in the planning of the implementation of the civil works
program, in carrying out key studies and launching the bidding process, in starting up works activities for
some contractors due to their weak financial and/or technical capacities, the lack of understanding of the
World Bank's procurement procedures, and the lack of supervision and monitoring. The collapse of the
Niger Development Bank (BDRN) in 1991/1992 was also a factor in some of the delays in construction
due to a freeze of accounts held by a few contractors. Fortunately, the program gained momentum
during the second phase of project implementation (from 1992). A civil works engineer was recruited as
a technical assistant to the PMU to ensure coordination and supervision of the activities. The breakdown
of the 110 health facilities supported by the project is as follows: 51 rural dispensaries, 23 maternities,
four medical posts, three medical centers, and 29 sanitaries blocks were rehabilitated and equipped.
Furthermore, many other types of facilities essential to activities related to the health sector have
received support from the credit, including: 20 houses for medical staff, two warehouses for ONPPC, 12
fences for health facilities, six sub-regional satellites for health education (EPS), 45 EPI shelters, two
nutrition centers, and the National Institute of Public Health of Zinder. Table 5 gives details on physical
and logistical inputs provided under the project.
3.5   Institutional Development Objectives and Project Sustainability. Prospects for the sustainabiliby
of project interventions are good, thanks both to its success in building management capacity and to its
success in demonstrating the potential for mobilizing resources through cost recovery. The experience of
designing and carrying out studies and operational research, and of the design and implementation of
policy reform emanating from these studies and research, contributed to significant improvements in
MOPH capacity for sector strategic management. Capacity was also strengthened through long-term
training provided under the project in planning, management, and public health. Under this project the
MOPH structure was strengthened through the creation of the Directorate of Studies and Programming
(DEP) and the Directorate of Pharmacies and Laboratories (DPhL), which play a key role in,
respectively, health sector planning, and pharmaceutical policy reform. An important indicator of the
enhanced capacity of MOPH is the quality of the Government's Health Sector Development Strategy.



5
Developed with very little intervention from external sources, both the diagnosis of health sector status
and issues and proposals for effectively addressing them are extremely well done, reflect lessons of
experience gained through the implementation of this and other projects and provide the basis for
strategic and well coordinated sector interventions. The granting of financial and managerial autonomy
to hospitals is yet another significant achievement in institutional development.
B.    Summary of Costs
3.6    At appraisal, the total cost of the project (Tables 7A and 7B) was estimated at US$29.3 million
equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$18.2 million (62 percent).
Base cost estimates were in June 1985 prices. The breakdown of the project's costs in local and foreign
currencies is given in Table 7A.
3.7    Several factors contributed to the changes in cost from the time of the appraisal (June 1985) to
project closing (June 1995): (a) a five-year delay in project start-up and a two-year extension of the
project closing date; (b) the impact of the 1994 devaluation on the cost of construction and equipment;
and (c) project support to activities not foreseen at appraisal, such as the strengthening of the DEP,
DPhL, ONPPC, STD/AIDS program and the partial financing of the 1988 population census.
C.    Financing Arrangements
3.8   IDA's contribution at appraisal was estimated at US$27.8 million equivalent (February 1986
exchange rate with SDR) and the Government's participation at US$1.5 million equivalent. Total credit
amount disbursed at ICR preparation (US$37.1 million equivalent) was higher than anticipated at
appraisal due to changes in the US dollar/SDR exchange rate (Table 4). The Government's actual
contribution of US$1.6 million equivalent (reflected in the audit report of December 31, 1995) was
higher than anticipated at appraisal. USAID contributed the equivalent of US$1.2 million under a Health
Sector Grant to finance five studies planned under Part A of the project. The January 1994 devaluation
of the CFA franc prompted additional donor assistance which significantly eased the constraint of
counterpart funds. In May 1994 the Kingdom of the Netherlands granted the equivalent of US$770,000
to provide for budgetary support to the project. It is significant to note that, at the time of project
closing, the Government decided to use the balance of the funds in the project account (about 300 million
CFA franc) to finance the rehabilitation of two warehouses at the ONPPC for the stocking of drugs as
well as the purchase of 500,000 doses of anti-meningitis vaccines.
D.    Implementation Schedule
3.9    Project preparation was long: five years elapsed between the first reconnaissance mission (May
1980) and the appraisal mission (June 1985) (Table 3). Project effectiveness was delayed from July 14,
1986 to November 3, 1986 due to some delays in meeting conditions for effectiveness, particularly in
relation to lengthy administrative procedures for hiring the project accountant. The original closing date
was June 30, 1993, but the Credit was not closed until June 30, 1995, after two extensions.
Disbursements against commitments were made until November 14, 1995. An outstanding balance of
SDR 0.02 million (about US$0.03 million equivalent) was canceled effective November 14, 1995.
E.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Implementation
3.10   Three categories of factors affected the Government's capacity to implement the project:
political events; financial constraints; and organizational/managerial constraints. The democratization
process, which occurred during the life of the project caused activities in all sectors to slow down and



6
even come to a standstill during the various crises inherent in the process. In addition, and more
specifically, the high turnover of Health Ministers during the life of the project (eight Ministers in nine
years) caused numerous delays, as each new Minister revisited and questioned project objectives and
implementation progress. Causes of financial constraints are numerous and varied. Propelled by the
economic crisis, lack of counterpart funds delayed implementation of certain activities and severely
constrained the operation of the PMU. There were times during the life of the project that the
Government was unable to pay salaries for periods of up to six months at a time. Cash flow problems
were further exacerbated by the collapse of the BDRN, whose assets (including the project's special
accounts) were frozen. These constraints were mitigated through an amendment of the DCA that
allowed 100 percent financing of operating costs of the PMU and through a Dutch Grant used to finance
local costs.
3.11   Management/organizational capacity to implement a project of this magnitude and complexity
was inadequate. The highly centralized structure of the MOPH, combined with heavy bureaucratic and
administrative procedures, left administrators and service managers in the periphery with, at best, a very
passive role in project implementation. Furthermore, the vertical structure of health programs within
MOPH unnecessarily complicated service delivery and constrained efforts to integrate service delivery.
As at the political (Ministerial) level, heavy turnover of heads of key technical programs (average of
once a year per program), combined with high mobility of service delivery personnel, further
exacerbated efforts to improve health program effectiveness and service delivery.
3.12 From the project launch through 1991, the PMU was plagued with serious management and
financial problems, and with a high turnover of project coordinators, both of which caused considerable
delays in project implementation. Financial mismanagement was evident in inadequate accounting of
project funds and delays in submission of audit reports. The use of IDA special account to finance the
Government's counterpart expenditures led to a de facto suspension of the special account by the Bank in
January 1992. PMU capacity for project management, supervision, and procurement was also lacking.
The recruitment in 1992 of a new project manager, along with the long overdue hiring of a technical
assistant for the PMU enhanced project implementation and accelerated achievement of project
objectives.
F.    Assessment of the Bank and the Borrower's Performance
3.13   Identification of the project was satisfactory in that it was consistent with Niger's strategy for
economic recovery and development and with the Bank's country strategy, which depended on the
adoption of a structural adjustment program. The amount of time and resources devoted to project
preparation and appraisal is indicative of the fact that dialogue was at times difficult and that the Bank
exercised considerable caution in entering the health sector in Niger.  The Bank adopted a
comprehensive approach by placing the project in the context of Niger's health reform, which, in turn,
was part of the overall structural adjustment program of the country. Project appraisal and design were
satisfactory. The project design addressed the need for policy reform in a pragmatic and flexible manner
thus supporting a learning approach that was quite innovative for its time. However, institutional
capacity to carry out a project of this nature was underestimated. Project supervision was deficient.
Despite the fact that the project represented the Bank's first intervention in the health sector in Niger, the
Bank did not devote adequate resources to field supervision, both in terms of quantity and in terms of
adequate skills mix to address and resolve the several key issues to project implementation repeatedly
raised in Aide-Memoires, particularly those concerning financial management.
3.14   The Government of Niger's performance in project preparation was satisfactory.  The
Government's commitment to reform in general, and to the project in particular, was largely responsible



7
for the successes/impacts recorded in spite of Niger's limited management and institutional capacity, and
financial resources. It worked closely with the Bank in project identification and preparation.
3.15   On the whole, Borrower performance on project implementation is satisfactory. A review of
590s and BTOs indicate that the Borrower's performance can be assessed on three levels: (a) technical:
the Borrower performed above average in implementing the health action programs, thereby achieving,
in great part, the project's development objective. As a result, the project had, and continues to have, a
good development impact as the project has assumed a prominent role in providing support for critical
health sector activities; (b) management and institutional: the Borrower's performance was mediocre
because of the weak management ability of PMU and fragile institutional capacity of collaborating
government agencies; (c) Government commitment and provision of resources: the Government's
commitment which was very high at project onset fluctuated during implementation due to frequent
ministerial reshuffles, weak commitment on the part of senior government officials and the Borrower's
inability, in the earlier stages of the project, to provide counterpart funds on a timely and reliable basis.
The appointment of a dynamic and capable project coordinator (manager) in 1992 permitted
considerably accelerated activity during the last months or years of the project during which time this
allowed the project to correct and significantly improve past performance and achieve a successful
outcome.
G.    Assessment of the Project's Outcome
3.16   Despite the very difficult political and economic climate during its implementation and despite a
high turnover of project staff, program coordinators and ministers, this project culminated in a number of
notable accomplishments. While not all objectives were fully met, significant advances were made with
project assistance, particularly with regard to its contributions to policy formulation and reform and to
the strengthening of capacity in planning and service delivery. MOPH institutional capacity was
strengthened through the creation of the Directorates for Studies and Programming, and for Pharmacies
and Laboratories, which play crucial roles in sector planning and the formulation and oversight of
pharmaceutical policy. Studies and planning activities financed under the project, combined with skills
development in planning, management, and public health, contributed to improved appreciation of sector
strengths and weaknesses and were instrumental in the production of the National Sector Development
Plan, which provides a coherent framework for sector development. Study results also provided the basis
for hospital reform and the recent adoption of a law on cost recovery.
3.17   Various assessments of project performance encompassing the views of, respectively,
beneficiairies, the Ministry of Health and an external evaluator, note improvement in the quality and
coverage of service delivery. Investments in infrastructure, program development and technical skills
development of service delivery staff resulted in improved coverage and quality of service delivery.
These are evident in improved quality of curative and preventive services, increased capacity for
receiving and treating patients, intensification of health information, education and communication
activities, and increased involvement of communities in health sector activities.
3.18   Not all project objectives were fully achieved, however. The project fell short of its targets for
immunization coverage (55 percent achieved) and for specialized training for technical staff (48 percent
achieved). In addition, no aid coordination meeting was held during the life of the project, nor was the
supervision program, developed during the project, implemented. The revolving fund for chloroquine
never functioned successfully. Lack of baseline data and inadequate monitoring and evaluation of
activity did not permit an assessment of the project's impact on health status in areas receiving direct
project assistance. It must be noted, however, that national health indicators for Niger remain abysmally



8
low, posing a formidable challenge to the Government and all of its partners to continue, and in fact,
intensify efforts to improve health status.
IV.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.    Findings of Project Implementation Experience
4.1    Experience gained through the implementation of this project highlighted a number of
weaknesses and challenges for improving service coverage and quality, management and organization of
sector activity. This experience will be reflected in the design and development of future interventions
in the sector.
4.2   Services. The importance of supervision of health personnel cannot be overemphasized. While
the Government did prepare a detailed plan of action for the supervision of health field staff, as required
under the DCA, this program was never implemented, despite its eligibility for financing under Part A of
the project.  As a result, investments in service quality improvements (infrastructure, program
development, and training) were not fully exploited or consolidated due to a lack of technical support
and follow-up through supervision. Likewise, a lack of follow-up and evaluation of training investments
left MOPH incapable of ensuring optimal utilization of newly acquired skills and specilizations and of
assessing utility of training to guide future investments in human resources development. The lack of a
clear policy on preventive activities and on health education in essence caused them to receive low
attention and priority under the project, despite the importance attributed to them in project design and
documentation.
4.3    Sector Management/Organization. Even more constraining to good sector performance than
resource availability is the management of resources: human, financial and physical (particularly
maintenance). Mobility, low motivation and inequitable distribution of health and administrative
personnel, lack of capacity and heavy and overcentralized mechanisms for accounting and financial
management and neglect of maintenance all compromised project (and program) effectiveness. More
effort must be devoted to develop capacity in management of resources and in decentralized strategic
sector management (planning, programming, aid coordination, monitoring, evaluation) in order to
improve sector effectiveness. In addition, deficiencies in MOPH organization also compromised project
effectiveness and must be corrected. The project was conceived in a vertical and centralized fashion
responding to MOPH organization at the time. Sector effectiveness calls for the decentralization and
integration of programs and services and a clarification and complementarity of roles and responsibilities
at each level of the health system. Greater attention should be paid to institutional development and
management capacity building in future interventions.
4.4    Participation. Through the pilot testing of cost recovery schemes experience was gained in
eliciting the financial participation of the population in sector activities.  This experience also
demonstrated that because of its financial participation, the population becomes more demanding of
service quality and more interested in participating in the management of resources and in the planning,
implementation, and management of sector activities. As a result of this phenomenon, the health system
is more conscious of the need to be more client oriented--a significant and positive evolution, indeed.
Future investments should include assistance in this regard. Because demands of population are
intersectoral (major health problems are due to lack of access to clean water), this new orientation will
also require a much more holistic approach to health with greater effort to achieve intersectoral
coordination and partnerships with other development agencies (NGOs) at all levels of the system.
While participation has evolved significantly over the life of the project, participation of women is still
very limited, due primarily to cultural factors.



9
B.    Future Operations and Sustainability
4.5    The application of lessons learned in future sector investments were extensively discussed with
the Government and various other stakeholders as these were an important focus of the participatory
evaluation process. It is encouraging to note that these lessons are reflected, both by the Government
and by the Bank, into their strategies for the development and implementation of future health operations
in Niger, respectively: the National Health Sector Development Plan for the period 1994-2000, and the
Bank's Sector Investment Program approach. The design of a proposed Health II project, which was
appraised in April 1996 and negotiated in June 1996, has already benefited significantly from this
accumulated experience.
4.6    The Health Sector Development Plan for the period 1994-2000 provides the basis for the
proposed IDA intervention in the health sector. A very solid document, it captures the essence of a
number of key lessons learned from the first IDA operation, including: (a) the need to decentralize sector
management and administration and integrate more fully programs and services through the creation and
support of health districts; (b) the need to strengthen capacity in strategic management and management
of resources; and (c) the need to identify and utilize more fully the existing (often untapped) potential of
the various stakeholders and contributors to health sector performance. The plan states very well "what
to do", but the challenge remains to define "how to do it". Discussions during the ICR mission highlight
how lessons learned could be further exploited to improve this plan, including: setting of more realistic
objectives; prioritization of interventions; introduction of a rolling planning process that would be
reviewed and revised annually; and the estimation (and minimization) of investment and recurrent costs.
4.7    Key features of the new sector approach, which are guiding the design and implementation of the
proposed IDA intervention include: a coherent sectoral framework that would provide the basis for
eliciting and coordinating the various contributions of donors; Government initiation and ownership of
sector activity and increased partnership among the various stakeholders in the planning, execution and
evaluation of sector activity; a deliberate and systemic approach to capacity building, management
strengthening and institutional development, which would encompass the (often untapped) potential roles
of all partners in sector development; a better appreciation of client perspectives and more efforts to
respond to the needs and demands of clients; choice of indicators that would emphasize performance of
the system and impact of interventions; the adoption of a learning approach, which would be pragmatic,
rather than theoretical, and which would be subject to ongoing evaluation and refinement in light of
experience; economic and financial viability, encompassing the importance of establishing priorities,
cost-effectiveness of interventions; a full appreciation of recurrent cost implications and cost
containment; and the importance of forging better links and partnerships with central and other ministries
at all levels of the system to understand opportunities and constraints of decentralization, public finance,
civil service reform, etc. (i.e. macroeconomic linkages) and to improve intersectoral coordination and
collaboration to achieve better health. This approach has been thoroughly discussed and well received
by the Government and donors alike.
C.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Niger
4.8    Lessons of Project Design and Development. Project objectives should be sufficiently modest
and based, to the extent possible, on a sound knowledge of the existing situation. The compilation of
reliable baseline data is very important in this regard. Objectives should also be commensurate with the
resources placed at the disposal of project/program staff. Clear targets and indicators should be set at the
outset. Key stakeholders, including the beneficiaries, service providers, local authorities, NGOs and key
donors involved in the sector, should be identified at the outset and involved in all stages of project



10
design and development: needs assessment, design, setting of targets and indicators, implementation,
management and evaluation. A least cost approach should drive the project design and costing exercise,
with a particular emphasis on fully accounting for and minimizing the recurrent cost implications of
project/program investments. A rolling planning process should be incorporated into the project design,
which would accommodate both more rigor and more flexibility during project implementation to take
into account and manage opportunities and constraints emerging from experience. A more holistic and
rigorous assessment of institutional capacity would have modified project design and introduced
interventions to strengthen that capacity.
4.9   Lessons of Project Management. Analysis of a number of weaknesses in project management
have revealed important lessons that should be applied to future operations. The most important of these
lessons are: the need to provide project staff with sufficient training in procurement and in other Bank
procedures and requirements; the need for improved mechanisms for coordination of project activities
and communication among the various responsible program managers; the need to minimize turnover of
program management and service delivery staff. Implementation experience revealed the importance of
integrating and "mainstreaming" project activities more fully into MOPH operations, both at the central
and decentralized levels. Among other things this would provide for more objectivity and transparency
in setting priorities within the context of the project and accord line responsibility for program
management and implementation to those normally responsible within MOPH structure. Opportunities
should be more fully exploited to address and quickly resolve project implementation issues. The mid-
term review process could have been more fully exploited in this regard. Furthermore, issues raised in
Aide-Memoires of supervision missions should be rigorously addressed and resolved. Routine (quarterly
or semi-annual) reporting on project execution, which was not done under this project, could also be
instrumental in identifyipg and resolving implementation issues effectively and efficiently. Adequate
resources to field supervision, both in terms of quantity and in terms of adequate skills mix, should be
devoted to address and resolve the several key issues to project implementation, particularly those
conceming financial management.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1668-NIR)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 6:       Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:      Project Costs
Table 7B:      Project Financing
Table 8:       Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 1 1:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12A:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12B:    Bank Resources: Supervision Missions






I1
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial          Partial          Negligible         Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                   0                 0                   0                   IX
Sector Policies                          1S                0                   0                   0
Financial Objectives                     0                 9                   0                   0
Institutional Development                0                 1810                                    0
Physical Objectives                      15                0                   0                   0
Poverty Reduction                        0                 0                   0                   0
Gender Issues                            0                                     Q 0                 0
Other Social Objectives                  0                                     0                   0
Environmental Objectives                 0                 0                   0 
Public Sector Management                 0                  15                 0                   0
Private Sector Development               0                 fZ0                                     0
Training and Technology                  0                                     0                   0
Other (Specify)                          0                 0                  0                    0
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv                   LiklY                      Unlikely                      Uncertain
U                            0                             0
C. Bank Performance                          satisfactorv             Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identification                           0                           15                            0
Preparation Assistance                   0                                                         0
Appraisal                                0                                                         0
Supervision                              0                           0
HighLy
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactoa              Satisfactory                   Deficient
Preparation                              0                           19                            0
Implementation                           0                            U                            0
Covenant Compliance                      0                                                         0a  0
Highly                                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                   satisfict       Satisfactoly      Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactora
0    O                               0                   0



12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit title                    Purpose                             Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
Not Applicable
Following operations
Population Project       The Project aims at assisting the Government in       1992             Supervision
implementing an effective national population
(Cr. 2360)               program, with the primaiy objective of
accelerating the onset of fertility decline by
increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate as
rapidly as possible, reducing matemal mortality,
promoting attitudes favoring a reduction in family
size norms, and enhancing the capacity of women
to effectively participate in socio-economic
development.
Health II Project        The Project envisages at supporting the Ministry  Expected June 1996    Appraisal
of Public Health in its implementation of the
"Plan de D&veloppement Sanitaire". It will seek
to: (a) reduce morbidity and mortality through
improvements to the quality and coverage of
basic health services with a particular focus on
establishing and supporting the health district
system; (b) improve the availability and
affordability of essential generic drugs to all of
Niger's population through the restructuring and
strengthening of the pharmaceutical sector,
effectiveness and efficiency of which will be
addressed through interventions to strengthen and
decentralize strategic sector management and
management of resources; and (c) expand and
exploit sector capacity through efforts to
appreciate and more effectively utilize the
capacity of various partners active in the health
sector, starting at the peripheral levels.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Project Brief)                       01/81                      02/82
Preparation                                          06/81                      02/83
Appraisal                                             11/84                     06/85
Negotiations                                          11/85                     02/86
Board Presentation                                   01/86                      03/86
Signing                                              04/86                      04/86
Effectiveness                                        07/86                      11/86
Project Completion                                    12/92                     06/95
Credit Closing                                       06/93                      06/95
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year       Appraisal Estimate               Actual                Actual as % of
and Quarter                                                                    Estimate
1987                           2.5                         1.35                      54
1988                           6.4                         5.18                      81
1989                          11.4                         8.08                      71
1990                          17.2                         12.89                     75
1991                          22.0                         16.01                     73
1992                          25.6                        19.04                      74
1993                          27.8'/                      24.05                      87
1994                                                      25.68                      n/a
1995                                                      34.90                      n/a
1996                                                      37.10                      n/a
Date of final disbursement: November 14, 1995 (the above data are taken from the loan database of November 28,
1995).
'/ A total of US$0.44 million was cancelled from the negotiated amount equivalent to US$27.8 million, of which
USS0.41 million due to misprocurement and US$0.03 million due to unused credit funds.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
SAR Planned         Actual
Part A. Health Sector Adjustment
1. Studies:
(a) Hospital Fee System                                                          I
(b) Cost effectiveness of university hospitalfacilities                          l
(c) Cost effectiveness of basic health services and operations                   1
(d) MSP's financial management, includinghospital management plan                I
(e) Cost recovery of basic heatlh services at the local level                    I
(f) Improvement of the distribution of essential drugs                           I                I
2. Sub-projects (implementation of recommendations resulting from studies above and    n.d.          8
some key activities agreed between Government and IDA)
(a) Directorate of Studies and Programming (DEP)
(b) Directorate of Health Protection and Sanitation                                                                                                    4-
(c) Directorate of Pharmacies and Labs (DPHL)
(d) ONPPC
(e) National Tuberculosis Control Center (CNAT)
(f) Survey of Aspirations of Youth in Niger
(g) STD/AIDS Program
(h) 1988 General Census of the Population
3. Support to Government's Initiatives in
(a) development of cost recovery measures for basic halth services              0                  l
4. Sector Management
(a) organizing annual meetings of all aid agencies participating in the financing of health  I/year  ad hoc
sector activities in Niger
a/     These studies have been combined into one.
Note:  Details on indicators can be found in separate tables by components and sub-components in AISC.



Table 5 (continued)
Planned  Actual                                                                          Planned  Actual
Part B. Basic Health and Family Planning Services                                          (iii) staff training and fellowships:
1. Strengthening and extension of health care services:
(a) Upgrading, rehabililaion and equipping ofhealthfaciUlies:     113      126             *  laboratory assistants                                        6        3
  Rural dispensaries                                                  51             *  medical doctor in entomoparasitology                          2        2
*  PMUmatemities                                                       23             *  sanitary engineers                                            5        3
*  Medical posts                                                       8              *  study tours on malaria control                                3        3
*  Medical centers                                                     15             *  PNLCP coordinator in public health                            1        0
*  Sanitary blocks                                                     29              *  PNLCP coordinator and one staff in resource management and   2        0
economics in health programs
Other facilities:                                                n.d.                      *  PNLCP coordinator in malaria science and control             1        0
*  Staff housing                                                       20             *  workshops and seminars                                        7        6
*  ONPPC offices                                                       2            (iv) community education                                           I         I
*  EPS unit                                                            2            (v) logistical support for supervision and monitoring of malaria control
activities:
*  EPI shelters                                                        45              *  vehicles                                                     4        4
.  Antennes regionales EPS                                             6            (vi) study on the feasibility of a malaria vector control program (TA 2  l   I
months)
*  CNSF store                                                          I          (d) Coordination and management of a National Diarrheal Disease
Control Program
*  Rehabilitation Centers                                              2            (i) TA (2 months) to develop program of monitoring and evalu,ition  I        I
capability
*  Garage SERPA                                                        I            (ii) TA (5 months) to assist in periodic program evaluation        I         I
*  Storage facility (SERAM, SERMEX)                                    2            (iii) Logistical support to Management Unito
*  Fencing for health facilities                                       12              *  vehicles                                                     I         I        W
*  Rehabilitation of Nutrition centers                                 2            (iv) Staff training:
(b) Evaluation of the efficiency of existng maintenance structures                         *  management of health programs                                4         2
(SERAM), (SERMEX), (SERPA) for health facilities:
(i) TA (4 months) to design efficient low-cost maintenance program;    I  I              *  public health                                                I         I
(ii) TA (2 months) to strengthen existing maintenance system    I        I               *  workshops and seminars                                       2        2
(iii) Vehicles (SERAM, SEMEX)                                  4         4             (v) IEC Program                                                   I
(iv) Equipping (SERMEX, SERPA, SERAM)                          3         3          (e) Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI)
(v) Staff training:                                                                    (i) TA (6 months) for program monitoring and evaluation and a morbidity   I  I
and mortality study of EPI target diseases for development of a initial
database
*  engineer to maintain and repair medical and surgical equipment   I  0            (ii) acquisition of vaccines                                       I         I
*  mechanics to maintain vehicles                            3         1            (iii) cold chain                                                   I         I
*  technicians in refrigeration                              3         8            (iv) equipment for vaccination for fixed structures and mobile centers:
*  continuing training for SERAM technicians                 n.d       150             *  No. of fixed centers                                         n.d.     343
.  Biomedical Engineer                                       0         1               *  advanced centers                                             n.d.      199
(c) National Malaria Control Program.                                                      *  mobile centers                                               n.d.      22
(i) initial stock of chloroquine and establishment of a revolving fund  I  I           (v) vehicles                                                      16        16
(ii) diagnostic/lab equipment for 3 selected medical centers   3         3             (vi) vaccines and cold chain and vaccination equipment for mobile units    I  I



Table 5 (continued)
Planned   Actual                                                                               Planned   Actual
(iv) provision of overseas training and study tours for selected division  3    3
(vii) staff training:                                                                       staff and health education officers
*  EPI introduction                                              I         I              (v) Appointment of 7 health education officers in each 7 departments  7          7
*  EPI program management for officials                          I         I           (b) Development of community participitation in health and nutrition and
of nutrition policy through:
.  workshops and seminars                                        4         4              (i) Development of a National Nutrition Policy:
(viii) incremental operating costs                                  I         I               *  workshop on the adoption of document                              I         I
(V Maternal and Child Health Care Services and MCH outreach                                     *  adoption of National Nutrition Policy                             I         0
(i) acquisition of vehicles                                        23         18            (ii) Extension to about 60 villages (in 3 regions: Zinder, Maradi, and  60       10
Dosso) of the ongoing WHO-UNICEF pilot project
(ii) mopeds                                                         119       114           (iii) provision of equipment and logistical support to the regional level:
(iii) equipment:                                                                              *  vehicles                                                          2         2
*  bby scales                                                    52        52               *  moto                                                              0         4
*  sewing machines and accessories                               10        15               *  equipment                                                         2         2
(iv) operating expenses for village consultation and home visits                            (iv) equipment and materials for village projects                      60        10
(v) seminars                                                       5         3              (v) TA (3 months) for development of a nutrition surveillance system and   I     I
its integration into a health information system in villages
(vi) staff training:                                                                        (vi) KAP survey                                                        I
- social workers                                                 10        5              (vii) salaries of 6 trained staff to function as resources people and to  I      0
initiate contact with villages (2 per regions)
(g) Expansion of Family Planning Activities                                                   (viii) seminars aimed at providing selected villages with an operational    20   20
program in the area of nutrition and food supply
(i) Initiatives in Family Plannihg Services to lead to a National   I         I             (ix) study tours for staff of nutrition division                       0         1
Population Policy
(ii) remodel facilities for the National FP Program for storage of  I         I             (x) staff training in nutrition                                        0         2
contraceptives
(iii) acquisition of gynecological equipment for MCI- centers (Niamey,  7    7         3. Health Manpower Development (MSP with Ministry of Culture and
Dosso, Tahoua, Maradi, Zinder, Diffa, and Agadez) and rural health                     Communication)
facilities
(iv) acquisition of contraceptives for MCH centers and rural health  I        I           (a) support to the establishment of a programfor regular in-service
facilities                                                                                   training and regularfield supervisionfor paramedical staff through:
(v) execution of public information campaigns on fanily health and  I         I             (i) acquisition of equipment and training materials                    I
family planning
(vi) TA (9 months) to study current acceptance of FP in 3 dept. to  I         I             (ii) provision of logistical support and operating costs:
refine program development
(vii) specialized training for:                                                               .  vehicles                                                          I
.  gynecologists (3)                                             3         3              (iii) TA (4 months) to support implementation and program evaluation   I         I
*  pediatricians (3)                                             3         2              (iv) grants for dissertations/thesis                                  25        !(
*  family health/FP specialists                                  70        225            (v) seminars                                                           I         I
2. Development of Health Education and Community Participation in                                (vi) fellowships in: specialized training for professional staff      203        109
Health and Nutrition
(a) Development of an appropriate health education program through:                           (vii) short term training for health staff                             190       109
(i) Develop a national IEC program                                  I         I             (viii) refresher courses for staff                                     n.d.      133
(ii) acquisition of technical equipment and logistical support (vehicle)    I  I            (ix) study tours                                                       n.d.      19
for schools anid directorates
(iii) TA (I month) to finalize work program for the division and    I         I
develop working methods; TA Social scientist (6 months) for field                       n.d = not defined.
studies; TA media spec. (4 months/yr)                                                 l



Table 6: Studies Included in ProjectI
Study (Financier)                Purpose as defined at Appraisal/redefined        Status                           Impact of study
PART A. HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
I. Hospital Fee System (USAID): This study was   Revision of legislation conceming hospital fees   Completed in 1992  These studies have revealed the imbalance between the fee
covered under Hospital Management Studies.   and their application in order to improve cost                    structure in place and the actual cost of health care at the
recovery in national and department hospital.                    tertiary level. T his finding has led to a series of studies
carried out in 1994 proposing the reforms of hospital and
tarification systems.
2. Cost Effectiveness of Proposals to Use the  Analysis of cost effectiveness of various  See point I above    See point I above.
University Hospital Facilities (USAID): This study  proposals including (a) transferring certain
was combined with the study on Hospital      services of the national hospital of Niamey to
Management (see point I above).              the university hospital complex; and (b)
establishing with a view to reducing evacuation
abroad.(see point I above)
3. Cost Effectiveness of B3asic Health Services and  Analysis of basic health services with a view to  Completed in 1989.  The findings of the study were instrumental in the
Operations (USAID).                          increasing cost effectiveness and improving                       elaboration of cost recovery schemes and the carrying out
management and utilization of resources.                         of the study mentiorned under point 5 below.
4. Financial Management and Hospital
Management (USAID). This study was carried   Analysis of current financial accounting and  Completed in 1991   National hospitals were accorded greater financial and
out through a study on the national budget for  management practices with a view to                            managerial autonomy. This reform has prompted
health and financial resources allocation, including  establishing an improved financial management            improvements both in resource mobilization and in hospital
the hospital and non-hospital sectors resource  system encompassing the entire health sector;                  management practices.
allocations. (This study is part of the studies  and analysis of current hospital management
mentionned under points I and 2 above).      practices with a view to improving cost
effectiveness of hospital services.
5. Cost Recovery of Basic Health Services    Analysis of various altematives for cost   Completed in 1993.     The findings of the study were instrumental in the
(USAID/1DA). This study is part of point 3   recovery of basic health services, elaboration of                 elaboration of the recently adopted law on cost recovery in
above.                                       a fee system and recommendations for its                          primary health care and the non tertiary health sector.
application to assist MOPHSA to implement its
policy of cost recovery at all levels of services.
'The majority of the studies planned under Part A of the project were financed under a grant from USAID as part of the Health Sector Development program.
Only two studies were financed by the Project, those are the studies on the Supply and Distribution Practices of Drugs and on Regional Programs in the Health
Sector.



Table 6 (continued)
Study (Financier)                 Purpose as defined at Appraisal/redefined          Status                             Impact of study
6. Extension of the Drug Distribution System  Analysis of present drug supply and distribution  Completed in 1991.  Following the study's recommendations, the MOH has
(IDA). Also referred to as Supply and Distribution   practices and recommendations for improving                   created two insitutional bodies to help define a
Practices of Drugs.                           drug availability to the population at large.                        pharmaceutical policy and regulate the drug sector. These
institutions are the "Inspection generale des pharmacies"
and "Direction des pharmacies et laboratoires. The
pharmaceutical policy remains to be finalized in order to
establish a reliable system of essential drug supply and
distribution.
7. Regional Programs in the Ilealth Sector (IDA).   Not planned at appraisal. A series of studies on   Completed in 1993.  T hese studies made recommendations and proposals in the
regional programs in health were finaned by the                     areas of decentralization of the health care system, health
Project. These studies intended to analyse: (a)                     financing mechanisms, and promotion of the private
Niger's socio-economic status; (b) the health                       sector. The findings of the studies were also taken into
care system; and (c) the financing, organization                    account in the elaboration of the "Plan de Developpement
and management of the health system.                                Sanitaire. 1994-2000".
Malaria Program                                                                            Completed in 1989.      The study's findings has revealed the mode of transmission
common to Niger and the most cost effective treatmnent
I. Study on the Feasibility of a Malaria Vector  Feasibility and design of a vector control                        available
Control Program                                program.
2. Sensitization Studies                       Study of the population's knowledge about    Completed in 1992.      Results of the study led to the establishement of a revolving
malaria and its treatment for targeting of health                   fund that was meant to ensure availability of chloroquine at
education activities.                                               all times. The results of a KAP survey in 1992 revealed
that the population was aware of the heavy period of
transmission (80%), knew the major signs of sickness
(87%), but that only 31% knew about chloroquine.
EPI
I. Survey on Morbidity and Mortality of EPI    Evaluation of EPI effectiveness              Completed in 1988      A national survey revealed that the objectives for year 1988
Target Diseases                                                                                                     had practically been achieved in terms of coverage (80%),
but that there was great discrepencies between coverage in
Diarrhea Program:                                                                                                   the urban areas (better ) as compared to the rural areas.
I. Evaluation Studies                          Evaluation of different diarrhea control     Completed in 1988      No comments.
interventions.
Health Education:
1. Study of Environment                        Study of the population'sknowledge and       Completed.             To serve as a basis for a national program for fEC.
awareness of health issues with a view to
developing and targeting appropriate
interventions.



19
Table 7A: Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Project Components                    Appraisal Estimate                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign         Total         Local        Foreign         Total
Costs         Costs                        Costs         Costs
PART A. POLICY REFORM
1. Policy Development Studies    0.0           0.3            0.3          0.2            1.3            1.5
2. Funds for Implementing Sub-   1.5           1.8             3.3          1.2           1.8            3.0
projects
Subtotal Part A                  1.5           1.8             3.6          1.4           3.1            4.5
PART B. STRENGTHENING
OF BASIC HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING
SERVICES
1. Strengthening of Existing     5.3           7.9            13.1         9.7            13.6           23.3
Services
2. Development of Health          0.7          0.9             1.6          2.2           2.8            5.0
Education and Community
Initiative in Health and Nutrition
3. Health Manpower Development   1.0           2.3             3.3          1.3           3.8            5.1
Subtotal Part B                   7.0          11.1           18.1          13.2          20.2           33.4
PART C. PROJECT                   0.4          1.0             1.4          1.4           1.2            2.6
MANAGEMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION
PART D. REPAYMENT OF              0.3          0.7             1.0         0.1            0.1            0.2
PPF
Total Base Costs                  9.2          14.9           24.1          16.1          24.6           40.7
Physical Contingencies            0.5          0.9             1.4          n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
Price Contingencies               1.5          2.4             3.8          n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              11.2          18.2           29.3          15.5          24.6           40.7
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report, Rpt. No. 5937-NIR; Project Management Unit; Project Audit Report 1995; Loan
Database of November 28, 1995.



20
Table 7B: Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Source                            Appraisal Estimate                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   |   Foreign         Total          Local   [    Foreign         Total
Costs         Costs                        Costs   [    Costs
IDA                            9.6           18.2          27.8           13.5          24.6           37.1
Cofinancing Institution       N.A.           N.A.          N.A.           0.8            0.0            0.8
Other Extemal Sources         N.A.           N.A.          N.A.           0.2            1.0            1.2
Domestic Contribution          1.5           0.0            1.5           1.6            0.0            1.6
TOTAL                         11.1          18.2          29.3           16.1          24.6           40.7
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, Rpt. No. 5937-NIR; Project Management Unit; Project Audit Report 1995; and Loan
Database of November 28, 1995.
Note:   Cofinancing Institution: The Kingdom of the Netherlands has granted the equivalent of 1.4 million NLG in
May 1994 to provide for budgetary support; Extemal Sources: Unforeseen grant from USAID in the equivalent of 600
million CFAF was made available for the financing of the studies under Part A of the Project.
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of
return (ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for
evaluation purposes.



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section Covenant Present   Original    Revised                          Description of                                      Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment                       covenant
date       date
Cr. 1668-  3.01 (b) 10      C       Project Life  Project Life  Without limitation upon the provision of paagraph (a) of this Section, Pilot cost recovery program was completed. Law
NIR                                                        the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the  on the generalization of cost recovery system was
Implementation Schedule 4 to this Agreement as such Schedule may  adopted in June 1995 by the National Assembly.
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower    Study on essential drugs distribution/procurement
and the Association.                                      system was completed. Other studies that were
foreseen under the Project have been carried out
under an USAID Grant.
3.02    10       C        Project Life  Project Life Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  Misprocurement to the sum of I ll million CFAF
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be fianced  was detected and cancelled from the credit. Total
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be govemed by the provisions   amount of 140 million CFAF was reimbursed by
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.                          Govemment.
3.03    9, 10    CP      Project Life Project Life The Borrower shall annually: (i) organize a meeting of all aid agencies Formal meetings have not been organized but a
participating in the Borrower health sector financing in order to review number of informal consultations and discussions
the progress made in said sector and to coordinate further assistance;  among donors and Govemment took place. These
meetings have proven to be very effective (i.e.,
cost recovery-USAID; nutrition, PEV-Unicef;
essential drugs-FED).
3.03    2, 4     C        Project Life Project Life (ii) review in detail with the Association all investment made in the    The Association has continued reviewing other
health sector during the previous year and expected during the next   investments in the sector and made adjustments to
three years including recurrent cost implications regardless of source  the Project accordingly.
of financing of such investments; and
3.03    2, 4     CP       Project Life  Project Life (iii) review in detail with the Association recurrent budget allocation to Last review was held during the preparation of the
support the health sector adjustment.                     Policy Framework Paper in 1993.
3.04    2        NC       Project Life  Project Life The Borrower shall open and maintain through ONPPC an account in  The 1994 audit of the chloroquine account has
a commercial bank under terms and conditions mutually agreed upon  shown that proceeds have not been deposited in
by the Borrower and the Association to finance exclusively the  said account which has hindered its revolving
replenishment of chloroquine for the malaria control program under  objectives. As of November 1995, ONPPC has
Part A. I (i) of the Project All proceeds from the sales of chloroquine  deposited 122 million CFAF in the account for
financed under the Project shall be deposited in said account.  which a Govemment proposal on the use of the
funds has been agreed with IDA. The account
will be closed upon last payment made for the
expenditures.



Agreent Section  Covenat Prsesnt   Original    Revised                              Description of                                       Comments
type    status   flilhnat  fulilhnet                           covenant
date       date
3.05    9, 10     C       Project Life Project Lift In order to carry out Part B. of the Project the Borrowr shall submit  This was cawied out annually as part of the "Plan
to the Association by July 31 of eac year for review and approval, the Annuel de Mise en Oeuvre" prepared by the
annual i-service training plans, including study tour and fellowship   Govermment
proposals provided for selected health care personmel under the
Projec
3.06    4         CP      Project Life Project Life Without limitabtion upon the generality of the provisions of Section    There were great difficulties in carrying out
3.01 (a) of this Agreenent, the Borrower shall open an account in a    peqject activities due to lack of counterpart funds
coimercal bank and shall deposit in such account an amoumt of  until the beginning of 1994. At that time, the
CFAF 30,000,000. The account shall be opeated by PMU and shall  Govemment of Netherlands granted the
be rcpkntsbed monthly by the Borrower at PMU's request Funds    equivalent of 1-4 million NLG to the Project to
shall be withdrawn from this account only for the purpose of meeting  provide for budgetary support After project
the Borrower's local cost contribution to the Project not funanced out  closing date, Govrnment has made the decision
of the proceeds of the Credit                              to use the balance of the funds for financing the
rchabilitation of one hangar at ONPPC and for
purchasing anti-meningitis vaccins as well as
other essential items for the sector. Report also
shows that Govermnent has fully reimbursed
accumulated arrears in counterpart funds.
3.07    10       CP       12131/16    12131/86    The Borrower shall prepare in collaboration with the Association and
submit to the Association for approval detailed plns of action not later
than:
(i) December 31, 1986, on the supervision of health fwld staf  A supervision plan was prepared but not
adequately applied due to recurret budget
difficulties.
3.07    10        C       01/31/87    01131/87    (ii)January31, 1987,onamainteancesystem forsecondaryhealft   Prouracteddelaysindevelopmentofmaintenance
structures including efficient low cost design;             system due to limited capacity in the Directorate
of _ eihsructe. A civil work engineer was
recruited to help develop a maintenance system
and monitor implementation.
3.07    10        C       03/31/87                (iii) March 31, 1987,onanutritionsurveilancesystemntogetherwitha A"ProgrammeNationald'ActiondeNutrition"
proposed timetable for implementation.                      has been elaborated. Indicators for nutrition have
been integrated in the SNIS with the financial
support of USAID. This has provided the
necessary data for establishing a nutrition
surveillance system.



Agreement Section  Covenant Present   Original         Revised                              Description of                                            Comments
type     status   fulfillment   fulfillment                            covenant
date         date
3.08     10        C        Project Life  Project Life  The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association not later
than September I of each year:
(a) the results of the evaluation of the past vaccination campaign; and   EvIuti   ied   ti 1994
(b) a vaccination program for the coming campaign, satisfactory to the Vaccination program is part of the daily activities
Association.                                                     in health services facilities. Quarterly reports of
vaccination campaign were also sent to
WHO/Unicef and IDA.
4.01 (a)  2        C        Project Life  Project Life  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and  Misprocurement and misuse of funds at the start
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  of the project have caused the dismissal of the
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the   then Project Director and the Accountant, the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for cancellation of I ll million CFAF of Credit funds,
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.                     and the reimbursement of 140 million CFAF to
the Credit by the Government.
There has been difficulties with regards to
bookkeeping of the chloroquine revolving funds
account and the special account for the 1988
population census.
4.01 (b) 2         C        Project Life  Project Life  The Borrower shall.                                              All project audits have been submitted to IDA; the
(i) havcthe acc.'nts :~~t-:e,'w .n 0- Ta.ta)ofthisSectionincluding    audit reports from FY93 have indicated problems
(i)havet1ara. a) of this Section  i related to the financial management by ONPPC of
the Special Account, t!e L'me Advance Account and chloroquine    the chloroquine revolving funds as well as the
revolving fund for :ach niszal year audited, in accordance with  records keeping of the special account for the
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent    1988 population census.
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy   A meeting consisting of the Minister of Finance,
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such   Minister of Health, Secretary General for Health,
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and   the Project Director and Resident Mission staff is
held after each audit to discuss its findings.
(iii) fumish to the Association such other infornation conceming the
said accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the Association



Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present    Original                 Revised                                      Description of                                                        Comments
type       status    fulfillment   fulfillment                                        covenant
date           date                                                                    _
shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.01 0    2             C          Project Life   Project Life   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit See Section 4.01 (a) and (b) above.
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with para (a) of
this Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditure;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual audit
referTed to in paa. (b) of this Section and that the report thereof
contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures wer e used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
.f--nt t>1 :
;  -   Ac'~ormu/udiun                                            x   = Indigenona people
Financinl perforrmnce/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
Flow nd utiluation of project finds                         10      Project implementation
4.      Coupart funding                                             I   = Sectl or cronL-soctr budgetary or otherresource allocation
5   =   Management anpecta of the project or eecuting agency        12.     Sectoral or ron-sectoral policy/ regulatoryrinstitutional action
6.  =   Envum covenw                                                13      Other
7.  =   Involuntary renelement
Present Status
C   =   covenant complied with
CD =   complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



2 5
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title             Description and comment on lack of
compliance
1. O.D. 11.00 Procurement (para. 81)      Misprocurement and misuse of credit funds
have caused the dismissal of the Project
Director and Accountant, the cancellation of
111 million CFAF, and the reimbursement of
140 million CFAF by the Government.
2. O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision (para. 4)  The Bank did not allocate sufficient Bank staff
and other resources commensurate with the
nature, complexity and size of the project.
3. O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision (Annex D,   A few legal covenants were not complied with.
para. 29)                                 Refer to Table 10, Status of Legal Covenants
and DCA, Sections 3.03 (i), 3.04, and 4.01.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                        Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks                     US$
Preparation to Appraisal                            110.9                 162,900
Appraisal                                            59.7                  80,900
Negotiations through Board                            4.5                   6,600
Approval
Supervision                                         203.6                 354,700
Completion                                           13.2                  21,200
TOTAL                                              391.9                 626,300
Source: Cost Accounting System (January 3, 1996).



26
Table 12A: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Number                      Specialized       Implemen-      Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of          Days in        Staff Skills       tation         ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons        Field        Represented         Status       Objectives     Problems
A. To Appraisal:
Reconnaissance 1       05/80       1            14            E
Reconnaissance !!      11/80       3            10            E, FA, PH
Identification         02/82      2             12            E, PH
Preparation 1          06/82       2            5             E, PH
Preparation 11         10/82      2             2             E, M. Furst
Preparation 111        02/83      4             14            E,MF,PH,IEC
Preparation IV         05/83       1            17            E
Preparation V          08/83       3            14            E, PH, IEC
Preparation VI         04/84       3            20            E, TRG
Preparation VII        07/84       6            10            E., PH (2), IEC,
MC (2)
Preapration Vil       10/84      3             21            E (2), PH
Preappraisal           02/85       6            10            E, PH, MCH, MC,
HE, PEV
Total A                            36           149
B. Appraisal through
Board Approval:
Appraisal              06/85       7            17            HS, E, EH, E, A,
QA, PH
Post-appraisal         09/85      2             5             HS, OA
Total B                            9            22
C. Board Approval      08/86       2            10            PG, MGT
through Effectiveness    09/86     2            5             D, OA
Total C.                           4            15
Supervision            09/86 -    41            184           D; ED; POP; PH;                                 PMP; CLC;
03/94 (15                             RM; OA; A; CE                                   AOF; PP:
missions)                                                                             TAP
Completion             06/95       9            7             PH (2); OA; RM
(2); HRS; MGT;
COS; PHA
Specialization:
A: Architect; CE: Civil Engineer; COS: Cost Recovery Specialist; D: Demographer; E: Economist; ED: Educator; EH: Health
Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; HE: Higher Education Specialist; HS: Health Specialist; IEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation
Specialist; MC: Malaria Control Specialist; MCH: Matemal and Child Health Specialist; PEV: EPI Specialist; PHA: Pharmaceutical
Specialist; MGT: Project Management Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; PG: Planning Specialist; PH: Public Health Specialist;
PO: Project Officer; POP: Population Specialist; RM: Resident Mission staff; TRG: Training Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project
Development Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical
Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress



27
Table 12B: Bank Resources - Supervision Missions
Performance Rating by Type
Number       Days in     Specialized
Stageof Project    Month/    of           Field       Staff Skills          OS  PDO   CLC  PMP  AOF  PP    TP  TAP  SP  DL
Cycle             Year       Persons                  Represented
Supervision 1     09/86      2            5           OA                    I      1     n.a.   I      I    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.   0%
Supervision 2     02/87      2            4           Po, PH                I      1     n.a.   2      1    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a. -24%
Supervision 3     07/87      2            9           Po; PH                1      I     n.a.   2      1    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  50.4%
Supervision 4      11/87     2            5           D; A                  I      I     n.a    2      1    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a  51.8%
Supervision5      07/88      1             II         D                     I      1     n.a.   I      I    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  19.1%
Supervision 6     03/89      2            10          D; PH                 2     2      n.a.   2      I    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  12.4%
Supervision 7      11/89     1             11         D                     2     2       1     2      1      2    2      3    3   36.2%
Supervision8      06/90      3             14         D;ED;PH               2     3      2      2      1      2    2      3    3   25.1%
Supervision 9      11/90     3             15         D; ED; A              2     2      3       3     1      3    2      3    2   29.9%
Supervision 10     11/91     3             11         D;A; POP              3     2      3      3      3      3    1    3    1   27.8%
Supervision 11    06/92      3            27          D;POP;CE              3     2      3      2      4      2    1    2    1   25.6%
Supervision 12     11/92     3             18         D; POP; RM            2     2       3     2      4     2      1    2    1   13.3%
Supervision 13     06/93     5             12         D; POP; IS; PH; RM    2     2      2      2      4      2    1    2    1   13.5%
Supervision 14     10/93     4             17         D; POP; PH; RM        2     2      2      2      2      2    1    2    1   9.7%
Supervision 15     03/94     5             15         D; POP; RM (2); OA    2     2      2      1      2      2    1    2    1   8.3%
TOTAL                        41            184
n.a. = not available.
Specialization:
A: Architect; CE: Civil Engineer; D: Demographer; ED: Educator; IS: Implementation Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; PH: Public Health Specialist; PO:
Project Officer; POP: Population Specialist; RM: Resident Mission staff
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development Objectives; PMP:
Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress.






APPENDICES






28
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER
Projet Sante
(Credit 1668-NIR)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
MISSION DE SUPERVISION FINALE
I.    Introdu tion
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale a sejourne au Niger du 26 juin au 15 juillet 1995. L'objet de la
mission etait: (a) d'entreprendre la supervision finale du premier projet Sante finance par lIDA (Credit 1668-
NIR) dont la date de cloture etait le 30 juin 1995, et d'initier conjointement avec le Gouvemement la
preparation du rapport final sur l'execution du projet (RFE); et (b) de revoir et de discuter avec le
Gouvemement le travail fait par l'equipe technique chargee de l'elaboration du deuxieme projet sante et
d'etablir un plan d'actions pour la preparation du second projet devant etre fmance par l'IDA qui sera l'objet
d'une eventuelle mission de pr&evaluation.
2.    La combinaison de ces deux tAches a permis a la mission de faire I'analyse de realisations accomplies
dans le cadre du premier projet d'une part et d'autre part de prendre en compte pour la conception du deuxieme
projet les experiences acquises. Un Aide-Memoire couvrant la preparation du deuxieme projet a et prepare
separement. Le present Aide-M6moire couvre essentiellement la supervision finale du projet Sante (Credit
1 668-NIR).
3.     La mission etait composee de Mesdames/Messieurs Denise Vaillancourt, Chef de Mission, Johanne
Angers, Analyste des Operations, Rougui Diallo, Chargee des Programmes, Pierre Nignon, Charge des
Programmes, Regina Arnadi, Consultante/Specialiste en Gestion, Francois Diop, Consultant/Specialiste en
Recouvrement des Couts, Marie-Paul Fargier, Consultante/Pharnnacienne, Dr. Sanoussi Konate,
Consultant/Specialiste en Sante Publique, et Aboubacar Magassouba, Consultant/Specialiste en Gestion des
Projets.
4.     En outre, dans l'esprit d'une meilleure collaboration des intervenants dans le secteur sante, des
specialistes des partenaires du secteur ont egalement particip6s et contribu6s au travail de la mission: Dr.
Gaston Sorgho, Assistant au Conseiller Regional en Sante et Hygiene, Ambassade Royale des Pays-Bas,
Burkina Faso; Mme. Agatha Pratt, Administratrice Sante, Unicef/Niger; et M. Denis Valot, Administrateur
Nutrition/Securite Alimentaire, Unicef/Niger.
5.    La mission remercie S.E. Monsieur Kalla Ankouraou, Ministre de la Sante Publique, S.E. Madame
Dodo Aichatou Mindaoudou, Ministre du Developpement Social, de la Population et de la Promotion de la
Femme, Mr. Amsagana MaYna Boukar, Secretaire General du Ministere de la Sante Publique, M. Ibrahim
Magagi, Directeur du Bureau du Projet Sant6, et tous les Directeurs des Programmes et autres cadres du
Ministere de la Sante Publique, le personnel du Bureau du Projet Sant6, et les membres de l'equipe chargee de
1'elaboration des differents rapports d'evaluation sur le premier projet Sant6 pour l'excellent accueil reserve A la
mission et l'esprit de collaboration qui a predomine durant le travail.
6.     La mission a egalement tenu des discussions avec les partenaires intervenant dans le secteur de la sante,
y compris les agences multilaterales et bilaterales et ONGs. Une liste des personnes rencontrees ainsi que des
documents consultes se trouvent en Annexes 1 et 2.



29
II.    Mithodologie
7.      L'evaluation finale du projet s'est deroulee suivant une approche participative, et a ete le resultat de
plusieurs evaluations a differents niveaux:
(a) Le Gouvernement a organise en mai 1995 a Maradi, un atelier qui a prepare l'evaluation interne du
projet. Les participants a cet atelier ont 6te (i) le personnel du niveau central du Ministere de la Sante , y
compris le directeur du projet et les coordinateurs des differentes composantes; (ii) les gestionnaires et le
personnel de soins de la pyramide sanitaire; (iii) les representants des syndicats; (iv) des representants de
differents ministeres, et (v) les autorites locales de Maradi. Un rapport d'evaluation interne du projet a ete
finalise.
(b) Une enquete aupres des beneficiaires a ete realisee en juin 1995 dans les departements de Maradi et
de Dosso. Cette enquete visait A recueillir l'opinion des communautes sur la situation sanitaire, sur l'impact
ressenti par celles-ci par la realisation du projet, et sur leurs priorites en matiere de sante.
(c) Une evaluation exteme du projet a ete realisee par un consultant exteme local; les principaux axes
de sa m6thodologie ont ete: 1'etude documentaire, les entretiens avec les intervenants et les beneficiaires du
projet, et une mission sur le terrain.
(d) La mission sante de la Banque Mondiale a eu des discussions avec les principaux acteurs de
l'execution du projet. La mission a effectue des visites sur le terrain dans le departement de Tillabery
(Tera,Torodi et Makalondi), dans les Departements de Maradi, de Tahoua (Konni) et de Dosso (Loga), ainsi
qu'ia Niamey. Ceci a perrnis d'evaluer les realisations du Projet Sante et de discuter avec les populations de son
impact sur leur milieu. La mission a aussi eu l'occasion de travailler et de discuter avec des administrateurs,
des gestionnaires, le personnel de sante dans les formations sanitaires, et avec differentes autorites des
Ministeres de l'Interieur, des Finances et du Plan, et de la Fonction Publique. La mission a eu egalement a
analyser les rapports elabores par les coordonnateurs des programmes sur les composantes du projet. Cela a
permis de faire le point sur les r6sultats obtenus, sur les contraintes et les difficult6s rencontr6es lors de
l'execution du projet, sur la viabilite des services mis en place, et de tirer les lecons des experiences acquises.
(e) Un atelier de travail final s'est tenu a Niamey du 10 au 11 juillet 1995, et a permis un echange entre
les differents partenaires du secteur sante sur les resultats du projet, les succes et les echecs. Il a aussi permis
d'acquerir les experiences utiles pour la conception du second projet sante.
III.    Rappel des obiectifs du pro et
8.      Le projet avait pour objectif d'aider le Gouvernement a introduire des reformes structurelles dans le
secteur de la sante notamment grace A des etudes et des programmes de reformes visant a ameliorer la
planification des investissements, l'affectation des depenses de fonctionnement, le recouvrement des couts,
I'approvisionnement en medicaments essentiels sous nom generique, la gestion du secteur, et la coordination de
l'aide exterieure. Ce projet visait aussi A aider le Gouvernement a definir des mesures en matiere de population,
de planification familiale et de nutrition. De plus, pour appuyer le programme de reformes sectorielles, le
projet avait pour objectif de renforcer les programmes et services de sante prioritaires: (a) protection maternelle
et infantile, y compris la planification familiale, la lutte contre le paludisme, les maladies diarrheiques et les
maladies transmissibles; (b) 1'6ducation pour la sante et les initiatives collectives en matiere de sante et de
nutrition; (c) la forrnation du personnel de la sante.
9.     Pour realiser ces objectifs, le projet comportait deux composantes principales:
Partie A. La reforme de la politique sectorielle, comprenant la realisation d'etudes et la mise en
oeuvre des strateaies A realiser decoulant de ces etudes ou de l'experience operationnelle; et



30
Partie B. Le renforcement des services de sante de base et du programme de planification
familiale, comprenant le renforcement des programmes existants (paludisme, maladies diarrheiques,
vaccinations, protection maternelle et infantile et planification familiale); la promotion de l'education sanitaire
et celle d'initiatives communautaires dans le domaine de la sante et de la nutrition; et la valorisation du
personnel de sante.
IV.    Constats de la mission
10.    Il faut noter que malgre un environnement politique et economique difficile pendant la dur6e
d'execution de ce projet, ce demier a accompli un nombre considerable de realisations. Bien que l'ensemble des
objectifs prevus n'aient pas ete realises, des progres importants ont ete obtenus avec l'assistance du projet,
particulierement en matiere de reformes et a la formulation des politiques du secteur. Un nombre non
negligeable de le,ons ont aussi ete tirees de la conception et de la realisation de ce projet. Le chapitre qui suit
mettra en exergue les constats de la mission, qui seront davantage analyses et developpes au cours de la
preparation du rapport final d'evaluation. L'annexe 3 de cet aide-memoire fournit de plus amples details sur les
constats de la mission pour chacune des composantes du projet.
A. Acquis du projet
11.    Amelioration de la gestion strategique et de la reforme de la politique sectorielle: la gestion
strategique du secteur de la sante a connu des ameliorations durant la periode du Projet avec le transfert de la
responsabilite de l'ex6cution de la partie A du Projet du Ministere du Plan au Ministere de la Sante Publique
(MSP). Les capacites institutionnelles du MSP ont ete renforcees avec la creation de la Direction des Etudes et de
la Programmation (DEP) et la Direction des Pharmacies et Laboratoires (DPHL). Ces deux unites jouent
actuellement un r6le important dans le domaine de la planification du secteur sanitaire, et de la politique du
medicament. Au niveau des services de soins, la transformation des h6pitaux nationaux en etablissement public a
caractere administratif jouissant d'une plus grande autonomie financiere a permis d'ameliorer la mobilisation des
ressources intemes et la gestion de ces hopitaux. L'adoption par l'Assemblee Nationale en juin 1995, de la loi sur
le recouvrement des couts des soins de sante primaires dans le secteur non-hospitalier a consolide la mobilisation
et la gestion des ressources internes dans le secteur. Ces nouvelles mesures de financement des services de soins
ont jete les bases d'une amelioration de la qualite des services de sante, de l'efficacite et de l'equite du systeme de
sante. Le processus des etudes et de la planification dans le cadre du Projet a renforce les capacites de gestion du
MSP. Les etudes ont contribue a une meilleure connaissance des contraintes et faiblesses du systeme de sante;
leurs conclusions et recommandations ont largement contribue a Il'eaboration du projet de Plan de Developpement
Sanitaire 1994-2000 dont l'amelioration et l'adoption offriraient un cadre sectoriel coherent. Par ailleurs, les
resultats des etudes ont servi de base a la creation de la DPHL, a la reforme hospitaliere, et a la r6forme dans le
financement des soins de sante primaires. Enfin, la coordination avec l'USAID et I'LNICEF dans le cadre de
l'execution du Projet a jete des bases pour une meilleure coordination de l'action des intervenants du secteur de la
sante.
12.    Amelioration des competences en matiere de prestations de services: les differentes formations ont
permis d'accroitre les competences du personnel dans le domaine de la planification, de la gestion, de la sante
publique, et des prestations de services. Le developpement des programmes prioritaires et des infrastructures ont
permis d'ameliorer la couverture sanitaire. Un comite interministeriel a ete cree pour la lutte contre le paludisme,
et une politique nationale de la nutrition a ete definie dans le cadre d'une approche multi-sectorielle. Un certain
nombre de progres ont aussi ete realises tels qu'une meilleure qualite des prestations de soins que ce soit dans le
domaine de la prevention, dans l'augmentation de la capacite d'accueil des formations sanitaires, l'intensification
des activites d'IEC et d'EPS, et dans la responsabilisation des communautes pour les activites de sante.
B. Activites non finalisees
13.    Le projet n'a cependant pas atteint tous ses objectifs. C'est notamment le cas pour le programme PEV
oui les objectifs prevus en matiere de couverture vaccinale n'ont et atteints qu'a 55%, et en matiere de



31
formation oui seules 48% d'entre elles ont et realisees. C'est aussi le cas pour les equipements et les antennes
regionales acquis dans le domaine de l'education pour la sante, mais qui ne sont pas utilises. Enfin, il faut noter
qu'il n'y a eu au cours du projet aucune reunion de coordination entre les bailleurs de fonds sur le secteur sante
au Niger.
C. Experiences apportees par le projet
14.    Un certain nombre d'experiences ont et tirees de l'execution du projet, qui vont perrnettre une
meilleure approche dans la planification du second projet sante. Ces experiences ont permis de constater les
faiblesses a differents niveaux:
(a) au niveau de la prestation des services: absence de supervision effective malgre la preparation par le
Gouvernement d'un plan de supervision pour lequel le financement n'a jamais ete demand6 dans le cadre des
fonds alloues aux sous-projets; une politique d'education pour la sante inexistante et un tres faible accent mis
sur la prevention.
(b) au niveau de l'organisation et de la gestion: une mauvaise gestion des ressources humaines et
materielles; une mauvaise integration des activites du projet due A la verticalite des programmes; une mauvaise
definition des responsabilites A chaque niveau du systeme sanitaire et des insuffisances dans la gestion
strategique, y compris la programmation, la planification, la budgetisation, la coordination de I'aide, le suivi des
resultats des etudes et l'evaluation des activites.
(c) au niveau du partenariat: la participation communautaire a et faible notamment en ce qui concerne
la conception du projet et la prise en compte de leurs demandes et perspectives; de meme que la participation
des femmes dans cette participation communautaire a et tres limitee. 11 y a aussi eu une faible coordination
inter-sectorielle, alors que les besoins des populations font appel a une intervention des differents secteurs.
15.    Des le,ons ont et tirees des faiblesses rencontrees dans la conception du projet qui permettront A
I'avenir d'avoir des objectifs clairs et realistes, des moyens adaptes aux objectifs, une consultation des
populations sur leurs besoins, la definition d'indicateurs de performance et de l'impact, une correlation entre les
moyens mis en oeuvre et les r6sultats, une bonne quantification des objectifs definis, une flexibilite dans la
planification des projets notamment par la mise en place de plans glissants, la prise en charge des initiatives par
le Gouvernement, l'implication des differents bailleurs de fonds dans la conception et dans 1'evaluation du
projet, et l'estimation et la minimisation de tous les couts d'investissement et de fonctionnement..
16.    Un certain nombre de le,ons ont aussi ete tirees des lacunes observees dans la gestion du projet: la
necessite de former le personnel aux procedures de passation des marches, l'nimportance d'avoir une
coordination entre les differents responsables de programmes, la necessite de maintenir en place le personnel
des projets et les coordonateurs de programmes, une bonne exploitation de l'evaluation a mi-parcours du projet,
un suivi adequat des aides-memoires des missions, une decentralisation de la gestion du projet, une integration
de la cellule de coordination du projet au sein du Ministere de la Sante Publique, un meilleur suivi et une
evaluation des formations donnees, une mise A disposition des fonds plus rapide, et enfin l'importance de
l'etablissement des rapports trimestriels ou au moins semestriels pour permettre un suivi et une amelioration
des programmes et activites.
17.    Des lecons ont aussi et tirees quant a l'engagement de la Banque Mondiale dans le suivi des projets:
le suivi des recommandations des aide-memoires, une acceleration des procedures dans les approbations des
contrats et les avis de non-objection, et une composition des missions de supervision mieux adaptee aux
problemes A regler. La mission a aussi et satisfaite d'apprendre du Ministre et des autres cadres du Ministere
de la Sante Publique, qu'ils ont grandement apprecie le r6le jou6 par 1'equipe de la mission residente dans la
facilitation et l'acceleration de 1'execution des activites du projet. La mission en retour a exprime son intention
d'accroitre davantage le r6le et les responsabilites de la mission residente A cet egard.



32
V.      onclusions
18.   11 est a noter que toutes les lecons tirees de cette experience ont deja e  integr6es dans le Plan National
de Developpement Sanitaire 1994-2000, et les plans de developpements des districts sanitaires qui tous deux
servent de plan operationel pour le deuxierne projet. Cette experience est aussi prise en compte au niveau de la
nouvelle approche sectorielle de la Banque Mondiale en matiere de conception et d'execution de projets (voir
l'aide-memoire sur la preparation du deuxieme projet sante). La mission felicite le Gouvemement du Niger
pour le devouement de ses agents dans l'execution des activites prevues dans le cadre de ce projet malgre les
problemes politiques et economiques que le pays a connu durant toute la periode d'execution de ce projet.
VI.    Calendrier d'execution du rapport final sur l'execution du proiet
19.    La mission a apporte des suggestions et appuis au Gouvemement pour la preparation de la contribution
de ce demier au rapport final sur l'execution du projet. Les directives precisant l'organisation et les objectifs de
ce rapport sont presentes en annexe 4 de cet Aide-Memoire. Enfin, la mission et le Gouvemement se sont mis
d' accord sur le calendrier suivant de preparation du Rapport final sur 1'execution du projet:
ACTIVITES                          DATE LEhITE          RESPONSABLES
Equipe du gouvernement acheve, sur la base des  29 septembre 1995        Resp.: M. le Secretaire
discussions, la partie du Gouvemement pour le                            General.
Rapport finale sur l'execution du Projet (voir note
explicative, Annexe 4)
IDA  prepare et soumet au Gouvemement pour 31  octobre  1995  (en  Resp.:   Mss.   D.
commentaires  un  projet de  Rapport final sur prenant  compte  des Vaillancourt, J.Angers
1'execution du projet                            revisions internes de la et M. A. Magassouba,
Banque   et  de  la  avec  appui  de  R.
traduction francaise du  Diallo et P. Nignon
document)
Gouvemement transmets ses commentaires sur le  15 novembre 1995          Resp.: M. le Secretaire
projet de Rapport final a l'IDA.                                         General
Rapport final sur 1'execution du Projet Sante (Credit 31 decembre 1995   D. Vaillancourt
1 668-NIR) est soumis au Conseil d'Administration
Annexes:      1.     Liste des personnes rencontrees
2.     Liste des documents consultes
3.     Realisations du projet
4.     Projet Sante/Rapport d'achevement: Directives
5.     Bilan financier






REPUBLIC OF NIGER
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
DIRECTORATE OF STUDIES AND PROGRAMMING
HEALTH PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 1668 NIR
IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION REPORT
May 16, 1996






33
I.    ASSESSMENT  OF PROJECT  DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION, OUTCOMES AND
IMPACT
1.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT DESIGN
Preparation of the health project was a very long process. Five years elapsed between the first
reconnaissance mission in May 1980 and the appraisal mission in June 1985. The project launch date
coincided with the period of implementation of the guidelines contained in the Interim Consolidation
Program.
At the design stage, there was no attempt to involve either the population at large or the field
health workers already in place. The notion of community participation in implementation of the project
activities was completely absent.
In the absence of this kind of participatory approach, the only community support generated for
the health project was in connection with nutrition-oriented activities and in the financing of drug
purchases for the health facilities.
During implementation, the project experienced various difficulties resulting from the following
factors:
-     the procurement thresholds were not clearly specified, particularly in the case of
civil works contracts;
-     the project unit was attached to the Minister's cabinet;
-     financing was awarded to those programs of the Ministry that involved a vertical
approach to implementation;
*     the chloroquine account was set up with a provision requiring cost recovery for
that drug only.
Despite these difficulties, implementation of the project activities yielded a certain number of
outcomes.
2.    PRINCIPAL PROJECT OUTCOMES
A.    With respect to health infrastructure, the project's primary mission was to rehabilitate the
health facilities, but given the inadequacies of the investment budget, it also came to finance the
completion of certain works.   The rehabilitation works covered  51 rural dispensaries, 23
PMI/maternities, 8 medical posts, 15 medical centers, the EPS Division, construction of 45 EPI shelters,
8 ARIEPS offices for the DDS, the CNSF warehouse, the spare parts warehouse at the SERPA garage, 2
ONPPC warehouses, 2 nutrition centers, 29 latrines, 20 staff houses, and fencing for 12 health facilities.
B.    Furniture, equipment, spare parts and logistical support. International and local competitive
bidding was initiated for procurement under this heading, and also for the purchase of office supplies for
all Ministry of Health agencies. A substantial fleet of 77 automotive vehicles and 114 mopeds was
established with project funds. However, many of the vehicles and mopeds purchased at the start of the
project subsequently broke down or were scrapped.



34
This logistical support for the various programs made possible the carrying out of several
supervision missions, of outreach activities, the application of vaccination strategies, and home visits.
But the problem of maintenance remained unsolved, as many of the spare parts procured through
competitive bidding proved useless because a large number of the broken-down vehicles for which they
were ordered were scrapped even before the bidding documents were prepared. Thus the parts procured
were already obsolete when they arrived. So while it is true that this component did have a positive
impact, its various aspects should be carefully considered in the planning of any future interventions.
C.    The Ministry of Health's training program received substantial support from the project in the
form of long-term training courses (specialization), in-service training (seminar/workshops), and short-
term internships. About 119 Ministry of Health professionals across all areas of specialization were
trained by the project. Over 133 workshops and seminars were financed by the project in connection
with the internships and continuing training programs. Support in the form of equipment and teaching
materials was provided to the training institutions ( ENSPs in Niamey and Zinder, FSS). Some of the
classrooms at the ENSP in Zinder were also rehabilitated under the project.
D.    The project provided considerable support for the drugs program. It supplied financing for the
essential generic drugs used in the pilot cost-recovery tests as well as the drugs for the health programs.
Given dwindling support from certain partners (UNICEF, UNFPA) in the area of vaccine and
contraceptive procurement, it also provided financing for those items. In fact, the project funded not
only the distribution but also the production, management, and local availability of the products
concerned. This support from the project both eased the ONPCC's cash flow problems and allowed some
breathing space in which the agency's future and that of the supply of essential drugs in Niger were able
to be calmly discussed.
E.    In the area of reforms, the studies carried out under the project recommended:
- the creation of two directorates, the DEP (Directorate of Studies and Programming) and
the DPHL (Directorate of Pharmaceuticals and Laboratories);
- development of a drug distribution system for the ONPPC;
- a revised system of hospital fees (presently being adopted by the Govemment);
- conversion of the national hospitals and training schools into EPAs [(tablissements
publics La caractere administratij];
- pinpointing of the advantages and disadvantages of the methods being used for cost
recovery in the non-hospital sector.
Thus the studies led to the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Health and above all
pointed up the strengths and weaknesses of the health pyramid with a view to a five-year plan of action.
They also led to the reform of the hospital sector and to the introduction of regulations goveming
community participation in health-related activities.
We have now arrived at a consistent approach to the health sector that focusses primarily on
decentralization of the health services, reform of the drugs sector, and management autonomy.
Discussions in these areas are continuing even though we want to attempt to start implementing this
approach within the framework of the next project and thereby to capitalize on all we have discussed so
far.



35
3.    PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
The project coordinator was responsible for managing the project staff, planning and overseeing
activities, coordinating approval of action plans and reports, and arranging for the issue of calls for bids,
for contract analysis and award, and for ensuring effective management control in all aspects of the
project.
The project coordinator maintained relationships with several ministries:
-     Ministry of Health: coordination, oversight, and preparation of contracts and
action plans for project implementation;
-     Ministry of Finance and Planning: as part of the services incumbent on Niger's
representative to the Bank and on the delegated paymaster, this involved approval and
signature of requests for payment and programming of the counterpart funds. It was the
function of the Treasury to disburse those counterpart funds, while the Financial
Controller supported the project by analyzing and signing the contracts;
-     Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing: support for the project through the
analysis and monitoring of contracts for the construction of health infrastructure;
-     Ministry of Communication: dissemination of media spots and sensitization
messages.
Through these relationships, the project was able to identify various obstructions and to work
with the authorities concerned to find a solution.
The project unit also played a coordinating role, chiefly through the organization of meetings
with the coordinators for the review and preparation of implementation plans and preparation of the
World Bank's supervision missions. Those meetings were extended to the Minister of Health's cabinet
whenever preliminary approval had to be given to the action plans.
However, the project (unit) did not arrange for any coordination among the donors, since that
was not part of its mission. This being said, it did attend the coordination meetings organized in
connection with programs receiving cofinancing from the other partners.
4.    IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON THE HEALTH SYSTEM
The project's impact on the health system should be able to be assessed through the health
indicators. However, despite the project's efforts, much remains to be done to achieve the goal of health
for all by the year 2000. In the area of reforms, for instance, support from the project enabled the
Ministry of Health to implement its adjustment program and improve its policy. The national hospitals
and basic training schools acquired autonomous management status. Regulations were established
governing patient participation in health care costs in the non-hospital sector. With the creation of the
new DEP and DPHL, the Ministry of Health's capacities were strengthened in the areas of planning,
investment programming, and definition of pharmaceutical policies and regulations.
With respect to programs, the project led to an improvement in working conditions in the health
facilities (quality and quantity), enhanced availability of services, increased health coverage through
outreach consultations, the installation of health education teams with a substantial resource endowment,



36
availability of essential drugs, and improved oversight at all levels. However, some of the project
objectives were not achieved, in particular with respect to vaccination.
The impact on the health system should not be attributed to the efforts of the health project
alone, but should also take into account the work of the other partners in health sector development,
namely USAID, UNICEF, EDF, FAC, SNV, etc.
II.    CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF BANK, GOVERNMENT, AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PERFORMANCE
1.    ASSESSMENT OF BANK PERFORMANCE
A.    The principal decisions with a positive impact on project implementation included:
-     the December 17, 1993 amendment of the credit agreement providing for 100%
financing of the project's operating costs;
-     negotiation of the Dutch grant for reimbursement of the counterpart funds and
the funds frozen at the BDRN at a time when Niger's treasury was experiencing severe
constraints.
As a result of those two decisions:
-     two project extensions were accepted in 1993 and 1994, making it possible for
all of the project activities to be carried out and, most importantly, for the loan balance
to be disbursed;
-     the resident mission's availability made it possible to expedite the processing of
certain applications.
B.    The principal decisions with a negative impact on project implementation concerned:
-     the high level of counterpart funding required from Niger in relation to its
financial situation, which resulted in the freezing by the Bank of the special account,
which was being used to finance ineligible activities, over a period of one year;
-     failure by the Bank to take firm  decisions regarding application of the
recommendations contained in the aide-memoires of the supervision missions, which
resulted in a similar lack of decision on the Government's side;
-     slow response by the disbursement unit in making funds available, and its
occasional failure to respond to telexes;
-     the turnover in the task manager's supervision team also held up the progress of
certain programmed activities.
2.    ASSESSMENT OF GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
A.    The following decisions taken by the Government had a positive impact on project
implementation:



37
-     efforts to pay the counterpart contribution, and to reimburse disputed, non-
eligible invoices and unjustified items of spending detected by the financial inspectors;
-     replacement of the project coordinator and accountant, which helped expedite
implementation of the project activities;
recruitment of the management consultant and civil works consultant;
-     preparation in 1992 of a procurement plan, introducing improved procedures for
the preparation and launching of competitive bidding for the supply of drugs, office
furniture and supplies, medical equipment, and logistical inputs;
-     the Government's initiative regarding utilization of the balance of the counterpart
funds to rehabilitate the ONPPC's generic essential drug warehouses and to purchase
anti-meningitis vaccines.
B.    Following are some examples of decisions with a negative impact on project implementation:
-     high turnover of coordinators for programs financed by the project. In some
cases, there was a change of coordinator every year;
lack of counterpart funds, hampering the progress of certain activities;
failure to act on the mid-term evaluation report produced by the Government;
-     the succession of health ministers in the wake of the various changes of
government over the period of the project. There were actually eight health ministers
during that period, each one eager to bring his own approach to project implementation;
-     total disregard, or delayed application, of  the recommendations of the
supervision missions;
-     inadequate monitoring of construction and rehabilitation works by the Ministry
of Infrastructure;
-     ORTN's requirement that sensitization spots be charged for at the same rate as
commercials.
3.    ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS AND QUALITY OF RELATIONS BETWEEN THE
BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT
The effectiveness and quality of the relations between the two parties are evidenced in the fact
that the project was willing to finance requests from the Government that did not appear in the programs,
such as STD/AIDS control, anti-tuberculosis drugs, the youth survey, and the general population census.
The project was able to make up for certain inadequacies in the financing provided by other
partners (external and domestic) in the areas of contraceptives, training scholarships, vaccines, and
certain health facility construction programs.



38
The image of this fruitful collaboration was tarnished for a while by weak project management, a
situation that was mentioned several times in the aide-memoires and to which the Government took a
long time to react, and the absence of critical analysis of the mid-term review.
4.    ASSESSMENT  OF  THE  PERFORMANCE  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  INSTITUTIONS,
CONSULTING FIRMS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS
In this area, the actions in support of the project activities were less effective, because:
-     the technical assistance teams did not always have the particular qualifications
required. This was due to the fact that the tasks to be performed by the technical
assistants were not always clearly specified in the terms of reference. For example, the
project recruited a technical assistant for the first two years who dealt solely with
planning, when he should have been assisting the project management. After his
departure in 1989, it took until 1993 for a management consultant and civil works
consultant to be recruited by the project;
-     inadequate qualifications of the local consulting firms selected to help the
Ministry of Health to prepare regional health studies and a nutrition policy. They simply
lacked the capacity to achieve the desired results;
*     failure on the part of the executing institutions and agencies (UNICEF, UNFPA,
NIGETIP) to observe service delivery deadlines:
*     The project signed a contract with UNICEF in 1993 for the
procurement of refrigeration and vaccination equipment.  The contractual
deadlines were not met, in fact certain items were not delivered until 1995.
*     In the case of UNFPA, deliveries of the orders placed under a
contraceptive supply contract were not completed.
*     The use of NIGETIP as executing agency for civil works did not
proceed as would have been desired. The works monitoring process was
inadequate, and acceptance proceedings were behind schedule.
III.   ECONOMIC AND FINANCLAL EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
1.    TOTAL PROJECT COST
A.    Under an agreement signed on April 14, 1986, IDA granted a credit to Niger in the amount of
SDR 25.1 million (CFAF 10,714,396,000), of which the local counterpart was to be SDR 1.3 million
(US$1.5 million). The total base cost of the project was SDR 26.4 million (US$29.3 million). The credit
was to be repaid by the Government of Niger in six-monthly installments over a period of 40 years,
starting May 15, 1996.
The base cost was CFAF 9.27 billion. During project execution, certain components proved
more costly than others, and for certain components the amounts allocated were utilized at a very slow
pace. This led not only to a reallocation of the credit proceeds in 1993, but also to an extension of the
nroject completion date from 1993 to 1995.



39
B.    The initial counterpart contribution was estimated at CFAF 577.5 million in 1986. During
project execution, various instances of misuse came to light, resulting in the repayment by the
Government of ineligible expenditures and of sums diverted by the management agency.
Despite the country's financial situation, and the contribution of certain partners (Kingdom of the
Netherlands), efforts were made by the Government of Niger to provide counterpart funding in the
amount of CFAF 997.18 million instead of CFAF 577.5 million.
2.    RECURRENT COSTS INCURRED
Intervention by the project affected several different areas, one of its results being the
strengthening of the programs and directorates of the Ministry of Health. The following comments
concem the various costs incurred by the project:
- Infrastructure. In this area, the project incurred very few recurrent costs, since the
activities financed concerned only the rehabilitation of existing health facilities and the
completion of works in progress;
- Logistical support. About 82 vehicles were purchased and made available to the
Ministry of Health through the programs; ONPCC received five vehicles. As of now,
several of those vehicles have been either scrapped or taken away by the rebels, mainly
in the departments of Tahoua, Agadez and Tillaberi.
- Technical equipment. Funding of the costs of maintenance of all equipment made
available to the basic health-care facilities and hospitals came out of the operating
budgets of the Government and of the establishments with management autonomy
(EPAs, EPICs).
- Training. The agents trained were for the most part civil servants, who received a
small salary increase on their return.
The project did not incur any high recurrent costs, but it found itself serving as a substitute source of
financing, taking over expenses that the Government's operating budget was unable to handle owing to
cash flow problems (office supplies, automotive fuel, etc.).
IV.   PROSPECTS FOR A NEW PROJECT
1.    To ensure better project coordination and integration we recommend:
- that the project unit be attached to the DEP;
- that a technical monitoring committee be set up, composed of the project unit chief or
his representative, the central directors or their representatives, and the departmental
directors of health involved in the project activities.
2.    Where staff training is concerned, improved programming and efficient management of data in a
permanently updated file would provide accurate information on the names and assignment locations of
those workers who have received training, thereby facilitating closer follow-up of their progress
following their specialized training.



40
3.     With respect to supervision, given the policy changes (integration of activities), a supervision
policy comprising the relevant matrix and period should be formulated for each level. Implementation of
the supervision program should be viewed not as an operating cost but as an investment, since it is
follow-up of the reforms that will determine the success of the action programs.
4.     Concerning the procurement of equipment, and spare parts through competitive bidding, it is
essential that precise technical specifications be set out and, above all, that the contract deadlines be met,
to avoid replenishment of the parts stock with items that are already obsolete. Likewise, for non-
standard parts, it would be much more practical to give the various agencies the authority to order
directly from local suppliers.
5.     With respect to the contracts for technical assistance, services, and the purchase of goods
through certain institutions (UNFPA, UNICEF, NIGETIP, etc.), the project unit needs to be assured that
those institutions are ready to honor and follow up on their contractual obligations by the deadlines set.
6.     Within the framework of project management, an assets file should be established at all levels.
And the project unit should keep regular checks on the management of goods purchased.
7.     With a view to a new project phase, various other structural reforms should be envisaged in order
to facilitate effective application of the present health policy, which advocates a decentralized approach
with guaranteed support for the three levels of the health pyramid: district, intermediate, central.
This will require:
-      sensitization of the population;
-      effective installation of district health teams and of additional agencies;
-      installation of community participation organs;
-      carrying out of a study on financial and human resource management;
-      factoring in of nutritional problems at the community level.
8.    It is also advisable to:
-      enumerate in advance, and in clear and precise terms, the missions to be
accomplished by the project unit in light of the prevailing socioeconomic context, the
scope of the project, and the nature of the activities to be financed;
-      establish a competent and adequately qualified team, with the duties of each
member clearly spelled out;
-      observe the correct procedures with respect to credit negotiation, to avoid any
errors that could obstruct project implementation;
-      envisage all project implementation scenarios with a view to reducing the level
of local counterpart funding to that of a symbolic contribution to project implementation.
V.    CONCLUSION
The project has had some remarkable outcomes where the health system is concerned, despite
the enormous difficulties experienced during implementation. Above all, it has brought quality health
services within the reach of the communities.



41
Drawing on the lessons learned during project implementation, the Ministry of Health has
formulated a new development policy based on development at the district level. Future interventions in
the health sector will start at the bottom, to ensure their autonomy within the framework of health service
decentralization, and will involve community participation.






IBAD 1946OR
o~~~~~~~~ 2              i n Gr_.swrn0/O   s       p         ir1 
N I G E R_ --, 
HEALTH PROJECT
All        6A   G   A   D,.  Z
H.att. Saeatr          7
Natank;  Paved roads (1 or 2 lanes)
National hospils  Siple earthroads -d
'r    UniverSity hospital  --- Maitained tracks  j  Is.
.- -Sinipla lrAvtI  1 n\
Deparmental health  I Rvers  .-
Dopartmeoral hospitals  @   National capital 
Cvmmonit'p lnlit,Ct _   _  Depatmera not conapitals    \l 
in Heatt and Nvttlilti  _  Deparment bo-nd.ri-s  |  ,  -
Comtponaa t  __  Pretecture bovedarien   A  A   O I GADEZ  /-                    J  I
j       \  "'\y I            /in CoI                   /'
Inv,n.tv\  F             ./7'        I   D  F  F  A
D-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
UK   M  A  L   I      r/ A  h    i0                                     <t /a AeGiA /
TAHrIJ
Ovollmvv   / Bab Env          i:1 1- 
1'      Y-  0         e    t.  o   wo- I; H                                  Y MA/RAOIY
,iNnti O                        I*ALGERIA
K  Terodi  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   /  ~ ~ ."  \~~    .~~.-  DO~~~OO~~/~~~'  SR ALi
\  '  N     -          A          0   Sd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  00o  Sd      -
VBURKINA  ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  F~~~~~~~~~  t ~~~~~~~MILES  N1.EI?rA
FASO  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   sanhO  ~~~~~~        s~~~vnaa  inna on-noaem.a.n.n.ie.na ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U-~I i - ~7
F   A    S   0 ~ E I                               ' .n a. ranmna~n  .-O'mi.r  inO  ama.\ ,ChtCN 
V        tnaGidrNd~~~~~~  E OO  It
MAnHT2O












