OFFICIAL     CREDIT NUMBER 1668 NIR
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         l                  , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1668 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     4h                       , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Botrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Association has received a letter dated Decem-
ber 30, 1985 from the Borrower describing a program of objec-
tives, policies and actions designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy, declaring, inter alia, the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the health sector
adjustment program described in Annex 3 thereto; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the deletion of the last sentence of Section 3.02,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)  "CFAF" means the common currency of the Borrower and
the other members of the West African Monetary Union;


﻿- 2 -
(c)    "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 20, 1983 and
August 26, 1983, and February 26, 1986 and March 17, 1986 between
the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "MOPHSA" means the Ministry of Public Health and Social
Affairs of the Borrower;
(e)     "ONPPC" means   the  Office  National   des Produits
Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques, the national pharmaceutical company
of the Borrower;
(f)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be attached
to the Office of the Minister of Public Health and Social
Affairs;
(g)   "Local Advance Account" .ans the account referred to
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
(h)  "MCH" means maternal and child health care.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The   Association   agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits


﻿-3-
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or
such  later   date  as   the  Association  shall  establish.   The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1996, and ending November 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿on November 15, 2005, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project through the Ministry of Plan and Part B of the Project
through MOPHSA with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and
public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall annually: (i) organize a
meeting of all aid agencies participating in the Borrower's
health sector financing in order to review the progress made in
said sector and to coordinate further assistance; (ii) review in
detail with the Association all investments made in the health
sector during the previous year and expected to be made during
the next three years, including recurrent cost implications,
regardless of the source of financing of such investment; and
(iii) review in detail with the Association recurrent budget
allocations to support the health sector adjustment.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall open and maintain through
ONPPC an account in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions
mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association, to
finance exclusively the replenishment of chloroquine for the
malaria control program under Part A.1 (i) of the Project. All
proceeds from the sales of chloroquine financed under the Project
shall be deposited in said account.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall submit to the Association by July 31 of each
year, for review and approval, the annual in-service training
plans, including study tour and fellowship proposals provided for
selected health care personnel under the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall open an account in a commercial bank and shall deposit in
such account an amount of CFAF 30,000,000. The account shall be
operated by PMU and shall be replenished monthly by the Borrower
at PMU's request. Funds shall be withdrawn from this account only
for the purpose of meeting the Borrower's local cost contribution
to the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall prepare in collaboration
with the Association and submit to the Association for approval
detailed plans of action not later than: (i) December 31, 1986,
on the supervision of health field staff; (ii) January 31, 1987,
on a maintenance system for secondary health structures including
efficient low cost design; and (iii) March 31, 1987, on a nutri-
tion surveillance system together with a proposed timetable for
implementation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Association not later than September 1 of each year:
(a) the results of the evaluation of the past vaccination
campaign; and
(b) a vaccination program for the coming campaign, satis-
factory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿-6-
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account, the
Local Advance Account and chloroquine revolving
fund for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and


﻿-7-
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Local Advance Account has been opened and the
initial deposit of CFAF 30,000,000 referred to in Section 3.06 of
this Agreement has been made;
(b) the account referred to in SeLtion 3.04 of this Agree-
ment has been opened; and
(c) PMU has been established and adequately staffed and an
accounting system satisfactory to the Association has been set up
for it.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12-04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B. P. 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:'                     Telex:
MINIPLAN                            5463 NI
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the dey and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for itemas so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 2,170,000       100%
(2) Furniture, equip-           5,410,000       100%
ment, vehicles,
materials, drugs
(3) Vaccines                    3,970,000       100%
(4) Consultants' ser-           6,220,000       100%
vices, fellow-
ships and train-
ing
(5) Sub-projects                3,160,000       100%
(6) Operating costs             1,810,000       90% for with-
drawals up to
an aggregate
amount equi-
valent to
$950,000;
60% for with-
drawals up to
an aggregate
amount equi-
valent to
$1,430,000;


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
and 30% for
withdrawals
up to an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
$1,810,000
(7) Refunding of                  910,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepa-                              suant to Section
ration Advance                             2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 1,450,000
TOTAL                25,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "Operating costs" means all costs associated with PMU
operations including salaries of new personnel and bonuses for
designated   MOPHSA  personnel,   Project  generated   incremental
recurrent costs for ongoing health programs and activities for
Part B of the Project including operation and maintenance of
vehicles and equipment, travel costs and office running costs;
and
(b) "Sub-projects" means the execution of any plan of
action accepted for financing by the Association pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(a) for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) under Category (4) for a specific sub-project until the
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its approval of
the plans of action referred to under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and


﻿- 12 -
(c) for expenditures under Category (3), September 1 of
each year, starting September 1, 1987, until the Association
shall have notified the Borrower of its approval of the vaccina-
tion activities program for the upcoming vaccination campaign, in
accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
increasing the performance of its public health sector inter alia
through: (i) adoption of appropriate mechanism for investment
planning and recovery of investment costs; (ii) design and iuple-
mentation of policies in the fields of population control, nutri-
tion, maternal and child health care, and control of communicable
diseases including, inter alia, malaria and diarrhea; and (iii)
carrying out of training programs for health personnel.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Health Sector Adjustment
1.   Studies to develop health sector policy reform aimed
at, inter alia, strengthening operational and financial
management, improving basic health services, increasing
cost recovery and improving drug availability, and to
provide assistance in the formulation of a population
and nutrition policy.
2.   Implementation of the recommendations and the plans of
action resulting from the studies under Part A.1 above.
Part B:   Basic Health and Family Planning Services
1.   Strengthening and extension of health care services
through:
(i) upgrading,   rehabilitation   and  re-equipping   of
secondary health facilities;
(ii) evaluation of the efficiency of existing mainte-
nance structures (the Service d'Entretien des
Appareils M6dicaux (SERAM) the Service d'Entretien
et de   R6paration  des Materiels d'Exploitation
(SERMEX), et the Service d'Entretien et de R6para-
tion  du  Parc   Automobile  (SERPA))  for  health
facilities;


﻿- 14-
(iii) a national malaria control program including the
acquisition of an initial stock of chloroquine and
diagnostic equipment for 3 selected medical cen-
ters, award of 2 fellowships to train an ento-
mologist and a sanitary engineer, staff training,
community education and logistical support for
supervision and monitoring of malaria control
activities;
(iv) a study on the feasibility of a malaria vector
control program;
(v) coordination and management of a national diar-
rheal disease control program;
(vi) carrying out of an Expanded Program of Immuniza-
tion including the preparation of a morbidity and
mortality study. for development of a data base,
acquisition of vaccines, cold chain, equipment for
vaccination for fixed structures, vehicles, vac-
cines and cold chain and vaccination equipment for
the mobile units, staff training and additional
operating costs; and technical assistance for
program monitoring and evaluation;
(vii) strengthening of MCH services and MCH outreach
including the acquisition of small vehicles,
mopeds, equipment and material; and
(viii) the   expansion   of   family  planning   activities
through the training of medical, paramedical and
auxiliary personnel, the acquisition of gynecolog-
ical equipment and contraceptives for MCH centers
and rural health facilities, execution of public
information campaigns on family health and family
planning, technical assistance and specialized
training.
2.   Development of health education and community partici-
pation in health and nutrition:
(i) development of an appropriate health education
program through the preparation and production of
health education materials, the acquisition of
equipment, the provision of overseas training and


﻿- 15 -
study tours for selected division staff and health
education officers.
(ii) development of community participation in health
and nutrition and of nutrition policy through the
extension to about 60 villages of the ongoing
WHO-UNICEF pilot project, including the provision
of equipment and. logistical support, development
of a nutrition surveillance system and its inte-
gration into a health information system.
3.   Health manpower development:
(i) support to the establishment of a program for
regular in-service training and field supervision
of paramedical staff through the acquisition of
equipment and materials and the provision of
logistical support.
(ii) revision   of paramedical schools' curricula     to
address current priorities and needs.
(iii) provision   of  fellowships for staff in     needed
specialties.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Niger may
be granted a margin of nreference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works:
Contracts may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally,  ri accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $13,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Equipment, material, furniture, vehicles and drugs.
Contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$75,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 17 -
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Medical equipment, vaccines    and  drugs may be procured
t",augh UNICEF in accordance with UNICEF's international procure-
ment procedures.
4.   Items of proprietary nature may be procured directly from
the supplier in agreement with the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for equipment, material,
furniture, vehicles and drugs estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the


﻿- 18 -
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of    15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principle-, and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis c. the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Overall Management of the Project
1.   A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established in the
Office of the Minister of Public Health. It will be responsible
for overall coordination of Project activities, assist in the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets, procurement of
goods, processing of Credit withdrawal applications and consoli-
dation of Project process reports. PMU will consist of a direc-
tor, an administrator and an accountant, as well as support
staff. It will be assisted by a full-time, internationally
recruited specialist in project management and implementation,
and 8 months of short-term consultant services to set up a
project accounting system, audit project accounts and assist in
procurement.
Part A of the Project
2.   Following the recommendations of the studies referred to
under Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare in
collaboration with the Association a detailed and specific plan
of action for each study by the dates indicated below:
-    not later than August 31, 1986, a plan on hospital fee
system;
-    not later than September 30, 1986, a plan on cost
effectiveness of proposals to use more efficiently the
university hospital facilities;
-    not later than May 31, 1987, a plan on cost effective-
ness of basic health services and operations;
-    not later than March 31, 1988, a plan on MOPHSA's
financial management, including a hospital management
plan;
-    not later than December 31, 1988, a plan on cost
recovery of basic health services at the local level;
and
-    not later than March 31, 1989, a plan on improvement of
the distribution of essential drugs.


﻿- 20 -
3.   Each plan of action will be prepared by the Borrower and the
Association in accordance with the following criteria: (i)
relationship to the Borrower's health policy; (ii) relationship
to the Borrower's annual health sector investment programs; (iii)
potential impact; and (iv) financial viability and availability
of resources to support incremental operating costs.
4.   Upon preparation by the Borrower and in collaboration with
the Association of any plan of action referred to under Section
3.07 of this Agreement and paragraph 3 above, the Association
shall provide notice thereof to the Borrower by letter or telex.
Said notice shall set forth the amount of financing made
available for the execution of the plan of action and any
technical requirement which might be attached to such financing.
5.   The Ministry of Plan is responsible for implementation of
Part A of the Project in collaboration with MOPHSA. MOPHSA will
implement the basic health and family planning component with
assistance from the Ministries of National Education, Higher
Education and Research, Public Works and Housing and others, as
appropriate. A cooperation agreement will be established between
MOPHSA and the Ministry of Culture and Communication for execu-
tion of the health education component.
Part B of the Project
6.   Execution of the basic health and family planning component
will be integrated into existing services of MOPHSA.         These
services will be appropriately strengthened with local staff and
technical assistance. Particular attention will be paid to mini-
mizing the need for incremental staff. The capabilities of health
facilities to execute the programs under the Project will be
strengthened through appropriate training and through the study
and eventual implementation of policies to improve management and
cost effectiveness of services.
7.   Each year the Borrower shall prepare an evaluation of the
past vaccination campaign and submit the results of such evalua-
tion to the Association for approval not later than September 1,
together with a program of vaccination for the upcoming vaccina-
tion campaign. The Association shall notify its approval of such
program of vaccination to the Borrower by letter or telex setting
forth the amount of financing made available for the program of
vaccination for the upcoming campaign and any technical require-
ment which might be attached to such financing.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 6 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation" means   an  amount
equivalent to CFAF 385,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 22 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions Of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible   Categories  shall   follow  such   procedures  as   the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 23 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover f-rther payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   \        day of
1984.
FORSECRETARY


