Report No. PID10673
Project Name                     Moldova-Trade And Transport Facilitation (@)
In Southeast Europe Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Transportation
Project                          MDPE73626
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
Implementing Agency(ies)         DEPARTMENT OF CUSTOMS
Moldovan Department of Customs
Address: 65, Columna Street, MD-2001
Contact Person: Nicolae Macarov,
Director General
Tel: (373-2) 54 22 10
Fax: (373-2) 27 30 61
Ministry of Finance
Address: 7, Cosmonautilor St.,
Chisinau 2005
Contact Person: Zenaida Grecianii
Tel: (373-2) 22-45-11
Fax: (373-2) 23 35 75
Project Implementation Team
Address: 7, Cosmonautilor St.,
Chisinau 2005
Contact Person: Georgeta Mincu,
Project Manager
Email: ttfse@customs.md
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                May 21, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              June 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date               November 4, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Trade is highly significant to the economy of Moldova, equivalent to over 95 percent
of GDP in the last years (1998-2000). The agriculture sector remains the main export
earner, with food and vegetable products accounting for nearly 60 percent of sales
abroad; textiles are the country's second largest export earner. Although Moldova
has increased its exports to all other major trading partners, it remains dependent
on Russia as its major sales market. Russia accounts for about 45 percent of export
destinations, followed by neighboring Romania, and EU countries (Italy, Germany). On
the import side, mineral products, machinery and equipment represent about 45 percent
of Moldovan imports in the year 2000, with Romania, Ukraine and Russia being the main
partners (nearly 45 percent of import origins). In 2001 the country entered the
World Trade Organization (WTO) and joined the Stability Pact for South-Eastern
Europe. WTO membership is a significant achievement for Moldova, with its highly
trade-dependent economy and difficulty in attracting the necessary levels of foreign
investment; membership in the trade body will serve as an important signal for



potential investors. At the same time, the Stability Pact includes a trade accord
with the EU, envisaging the liberalization of 90 percent of Balkan countries' trade
with the EU market over the next years; membership in the Pact will open better
access to regional markets.
The internal dispute over the status of the Transnistria region (which declared
independence in 1994 but has not been recognized by the central government) left
Moldova separated de facto into two parts and created huge opportunities for
smuggling and corruption due to the lack of effective control of the Moldovan
authorities over its eastern border with Ukraine. Although Transnistria covers only
about 12 percent of Moldova's territory, the region is of high economic importance
for the country and straddles the major land routes to Russia and other strategically
important export markets. The Transnistrian authorities have created their own army,
Customs, and police, and they maintain a distinct trade regime.
Traders in Moldova, like in most of the region, face excessive logistical costs for
their export, import and transit operations. The flow of international truck traffic
reaching Moldova is relatively limited with about 280-320 trucks per day for import,
export and transit at all its crossings combined. Transit has dropped significantly
over the recent years as a result of the relatively high costs (transit fee of $110
for 350 km), bureaucratic procedures, and poor road infrastructure.    The large volume
of illegal activity in Transnistria makes the use of an escort ($0.5/km) mandatory
for excisable goods, even when TIR carnets are used. Waiting time at border crossing
points on the western side of Moldova seems to be fairly limited (1-2 hours), due to
the low level of traffic. Goods clearance is equally relatively fast, but can be
very long in Russia (24-48 hours). Nonetheless, the absence of certified customs
brokers - despite a law establishing their status - affects freight forwarding
negatively. The lack of consolidation of controls was raised as a significant concern
by traders and road transport operators. This problem is even more acute at the
border with the Ukraine.
The MDC is strongly committed to reforming the institution. The MDC plays a critical
role in serving both the State and the trading community. Customs collect about 60
percent of total budget revenues (about $123 million equivalent in 2000). The
Government has achieved partial success in improving the services of MDC and reducing
trade and transport impediments through the recent restructuring of Customs. A
Strategic Plan for the reform process is currently being prepared by the Director
General and his Change Management Task Force. The Plan will be based on the major
operational objectives of MDC: (a) modernizing Customs procedures and operations; (b)
upgrading information systems and border facilities; (c) reducing smuggling and
corruption opportunities; (d) strengthening border inter-agency awareness and
cooperation; (e) improving private-public interactions and the delivery of transport
and trade services; and (f) strengthening regional cooperation.
A Pre-Shipment Inspection (PSI) scheme is being considered by the Government, as a
condition to a Stand-by Agreement with the IMF.
2. Objectives
The proposed project will adhere to a regional program under implementation for Trade
and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe that aims to strengthen and modernize
the Customs administrations and other border control agencies in six other countries:
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
and Romania. The project seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to prevent smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project will achieve these objectives by: (i) strengthening Customs institutional
capacity and assisting the change management process; (ii) modernizing Customs
- 2 -



information system for border point processing and clearance of shipments; (iii)
implementation of a transit vehicle tracking system; (iv) upgrading the capacity and
effectiveness of existing border points; (v) improving mechanisms of interaction and
cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community; (vi)
disseminating information and providing training to the trading community (private
sector); and (vii) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs
procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques, and
cooperation mechanisms for agencies at border crossings.
Like other participants in the TTFSE program - though to a lesser extent - Moldova
receives assistance from the European Union (EU) to support the modernization of its
Department of Customs. As recognized by the Government, the process necessary to
change institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is expected to take a
substantial time, about 8 to 10 years. The modernization process involves
simultaneous and sustained actions on development by the Moldovan Department of
Customs (MDC) of an internal strategic planning process including: (i) change in
administrative and operational procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the
organization and hiring, training or deployment according to them; (iii) elaboration
and implementation of a staff development plan; and (iv) upgrading of information
technology and regional interconnections. This project will provide support to
implement the customs reform at border crossings and inland terminals during the
first phase (three to four years) of the process. The process does not include, for
the time being, Transnistria.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Adherence of Moldova (and the FR of Yugoslavia at the same time) to the TTFSE program
fulfills the regional dimension of the TTFSE program. With a complete country
coverage of Southeast Europe fruitful excahnges can take place on Customs reform,
regional cooperation and simplification, and compatibility of information systems.
Performance measurements at pilots using the TTFSE methodology enable comparisons
accross countries. The partnership between the TTFSE program and the representives of
business community (chambers of commerce, PRO-committees, transporters) ensures a
permanent link between public and private parties, with rapid feed-back on the needs
of the private sector. Furthermore, the Bank through its broader lending and country
assistance strategies is well placed to help promote cooperation, and coordination of
policies.
4. Description
The project consists of the following components:
a. Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity
Includes technical assistance and training to: (i) streamline procedures and enhance
their transparency by measuring performance at selected pilot sites and facilitating
adoption of corrective measures; (ii) enhance inter-agency awareness and cooperation;
and (iii) recast a user-based culture for the MDC.
b. Modernization of Customs Information System
Includes consulting services, provision of equipment, and training to: (i) roll-out
the existing "Frontiera" system currently piloted at the Sculeni border crossing; and
(ii) install and implement the ASYCUDA comprehensive system for customs clearance.
c. Implementation of a Transit Vehicle Tracking System
- 3 -



Includes acquisition and operation of tracking and pursuit equipment.
d. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Includes vehicle inspection equipment, improvement of layouts, and installation of
secondary inspection facilities to increase the capacity and effectiveness of
existing border crossing points.
e. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of conventional and distance learning training to
participants in trade, logistics, and international freight transport through AITA;
stimulation of cooperation between public and private parties by using a virtual
forum (internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys, and
consultation); and (iii) participation in the regional TTFSE website to provide
online all legislation, regulations and applicable border procedures/requirements.
f. Project Implementation
Includes the services and office equipment required to support the implementation of
the project consisting of procurement advisors, external auditors, the establishment
of a financial management system, and training for the Project Implementation Team
(PIT)
A. Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity: $1.18m
B.Modernization of Customs Information System: $4.47m
C.Implementation of a Transit Vehicle Tracking System: $1.10m
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities: $1.89m
E. Trade Facilitation Development: $0.27m
F. Project Implementation: $0.19m
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($1.23)
IDA ($7.25)
US, GOV. OF ($1.27)
Total Project Cost: $9.76
6. Implementation
(a) Implementation Period
The project will be implemented over three years and a half (FY2002- FY2005). It will
be completed by December 31, 2004, and closed by June 30, 2005. The Customs reform
process will last about 8-10 years.
(b) Executing Agencies
The Republic of Moldova, through its MOF, will be the borrower for the IDA credit.
The beneficiary will be MDC. Through the proposed co-financing, other project
beneficiaries will be the Border Troops, AITA, and trade associations. The
implementation arrangements will include the following elements: (i) the national
coordinator; (ii) the project manager and his/her project implementation team; (iii)
the trade facilitation coordinator; and (iv) the regional steering committee (RSC).
The Director General of MDC has been designated by the Government as National
Coordinator. The National Coordinator is a high level Government representative
representing Moldova at the RSC meetings (see below), at which he is empowered to
speak on behalf of all border agencies. The National Coordinator will call and chair
- 4 -



coordination meetings of the various border control agencies and manage their input
when required. The National Coordinator will also ensure that a suitable mechanism
is established across border agencies to provide all information related to border
crossing requirements to the trade facilitation/website coordinator.
The Project Manager for the TTFSE - Moldova is to be selected by the National
Coordinator during the pre-appraisal mission in October. It is proposed that the
project manager and his/her Project Implementation Team (PIT) be located in MDC. As a
minimum the team will include a procurement specialist, a financial management
specialist, and a team assistant, and should be fully established by credit
effectiveness. The PIT will cover procurement, loan management and reporting
functions acceptable to IDA. The project manager will make an evaluation of the
workload for the PIT and plan resources accordingly. The PIT will coordinate the
project management for the various beneficiaries, prepare terms of reference, hire
consultants, and contract for services, training, and goods as necessary for the
implementation of the project.
It is proposed [to be confirmed during next mission] that the Trade Facilitation and
Website Coordinator be located within the International Association of Road Hauliers
of Moldova (AITA), as a recognized organization with the most representative
membership, working closely with MDC and the Ministry of Transport and Communications
to address impediments to international transport.
Given the scope (eight countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the
related policy and institutional reforms anticipated, the Regional Steering Committee
(RSC), meeting periodically at the regional level, is overseeing the overall
implementation of the program. The participating countries have signed a Memorandum
of Understanding setting up the RSC. The RSC is made up of high-level officials of
the participating countries (the Director General of MDC in the case of Moldova), and
donor representatives as observers. It will provide guidance for the necessary sector
policy and reform decisions. Meetings rotate among the participating countries, with
the project manager of the host country providing support services to the RSC.
The UN-ECE is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the
program. The secretary will: (i) prepare the agenda, supporting documentation and
minutes for the RSC meetings; (ii) consolidate on a semi-annual basis, the
implementation reports of the countries involved in the program; (iii) consolidate
the annual review report of the Project Implementation Teams; (iv) assist in the
trade facilitation efforts; and (v) establish a link to the SECI-PRO committees.
7. Sustainability
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling Moldova's long-term
objective of achieving sustainable growth. Once the reforms are in place, the
sustainability of the effort will be assured by transparency in customs operations,
regular cooperation among border agencies including those of other countries, and the
gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous upgrading of
the customs services, procedures, management, and equipment based on a suitable
budget will enable the MDC to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological
advance, and eventual compatibility with the EU.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The MDC wants to modernize its services through a comprehensive approach. Experience
under other projects shows that the border crossing issues require coordinated
efforts by the several border agencies, and mutually reinforcing actions in their
respective areas. The reform effort is integrated to ensure complementarity between
assistance from the EU, the US Government, and the World Bank.
- 5 -



The main lesson learned from ongoing World Bank projects is the importance of keeping
project objectives and scope simple so as not to exceed the limited absorptive
capacity of the ministries and the local staff of other organizations.
The EU-PHARE and USAID experiences show that in order to lessen transaction costs at
border crossings, border crossings investments need to be supplemented by: (i)
reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate information on waiting times; (iii) adequate
remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency
needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable communications
infrastructure and equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination
and simplification of customs procedures and removal of state controls on
international trade.
Recent experience under the on-going TTFSE program indicates the need for the country
to take full ownership over the modernization process, with external support in the
areas where local expertise is not yet available. It also indicates that, given the
multiplicity of parties involved in trade and transport facilitation, coordination
and cooperation with the business community represented by associations of roads
hauliers/transporters, chambers of commerce and PRO-committees provide a stonger
dynamic to the process.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. The project design
was tailored to respond to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Environmental Category C
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Graham Smith
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2472
Fax: 201-614-0900
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
July 14, 2002.
-6-



