ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                             AWortd Froc oo Poverty
NIZEETlE  ,t 7rXi- *-iMS}
InfoShop
flbk  'WW   Kilik
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08/12/2002                                 24657
Section I - Basic Information                                      August 12, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOLDOVA                                  Project ID: P073626
Project: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION         Task Team Leader: Michel Audige
IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: June 3, 2002         IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: January 15, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m): 7.14
Managing Unit: ECSIE                              Sector: Central government administration (90%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Other domestic and international trade (10%)
Status: Lending                                   Theme: Trade facilitation and market access (P);
Other public sector governance (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project will adhere to a regional program under implementation for Trade and Transport
Facilitation in Southeast Europe that aims to strengthen and modernize the Customs administrations and
other border control agencies in six other countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Romania. A similar project is under preparation for the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The project seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to prevent smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project will achieve these objectives by: (i) strengthening Customs institutional capacity and
assisting the change management process; (ii) modernizing Customs information system for border point
processing and clearance of shipments; (iii) implementation of a transit vehicle tracking system; (iv)
upgrading the capacity and effectiveness of existing border points; (v) improving mechanisms of
interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community; (vi)
disseminating information and providing training to the trading community (private sector); and (vii)
implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs procedures, information technology,
human resource management techniques, and cooperation mechanisms for agencies at border crossings.
Like other participants in the TTFSE program - though to a lesser extent - Moldova receives assistance
from the European Union (EU) to support the modernization of its Department of Customs. As
recognized by the Government, the process necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained
behavior is expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to 10 years. The modernization process involves
simultaneous and sustained actions on development by the Moldovan Department of Customs (MDC) of






2
ISDS
an intemal strategic planning process including: (i) change in administrative and operational procedures;
(ii) definition of staff profiles for the organization and hiring, training or deployment according to them;
(iii) elaboration and implementation of a staff development plan; and (iv) upgrading of information
technology and regional interconnection. This project will provide support to implement the customs
reform at border crossings and inland terminals during the first phase (three to four years) of the process.
The process does not include, for the time being, Transnistria (see paragraph 82)
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project consists of the following components:
a. Strengtlhening of MDC Institutional Capacity
Includes technical assistance and training to: (i)  improve operations by collecting and refining
performance indicators data at selected pilot sites, and facilitating adoption of corrective measures; (ii)
re-engineer procedures by strengthening the declaration and transit procedures, and introducing
selectivity; (iii) strengthen the valuation and post-release activities; and (iv) enhance inter-agency
awareness and cooperation.
b. Development of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)
Includes technical assistance, provision of equipment, and training to: (i) install and implement the
ASYCUDA comprehensive system for customs clearance; and (ii) ensure the computerization of MDC
through an integrated package.
c. Implementation of a Transit Vehicle Tracking System
Includes acquisition and operation of tracking and pursuit equipment.
d Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Includes (i) reorganization of traffic flows and work stations at selected borders, and (ii) vehicle
inspection equipment, to increase the capacity and effectiveness of existing border crossing points.
e. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes (i) participation in the regional TTFSE website to ensure full transparency of procedures and
requirements of border agencies, and to provide travel information; (ii) provision of conventional and
distance learning training to participants in trade, logistics, and intemational freight transport through
AITA; (iii) distance learning programs for road transport operators and freight forwarders; and (iv)
annual survey of trade/international transport environment.
f Project Implementation
Includes the services and office equipment required to support the implementation of the project
consisting of the Project Implementation Team (PIT), procurement advisors, external auditors, the
establishment of a financial management system, and training for the PIT staff.
Components:






3
A. Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity
B.Development of ICIS
C.lmplementation of a Transit Vehicle Tracking System
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
E. Trade Facilitation Development
F. Project Implementation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
See B below
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: There is only limited physical investment planned for this project. The ISDA Review in
Septmeber 2001 cleared the project as C. Under the project there will be environmental training sessions for
the border staff and also assistance in developing cooperation with the government authoprities to reduce the
risk of illegal handling of toxic wastes.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No    O TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               O Yes * No    C'TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 O Yes * No    C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes *No     O TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                0 Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No    C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and






4
ISDS
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
NA
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
NA
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts, or slg[IIIIcanlL Lecnnical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.






5
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:           Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.               Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                  Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Michel Audige                                09/06/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Philip W. Moeller                       08/24/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Bernard Baratz                            09/06/01
Sector Manager/Director:      Eva Molnar                                   09/06/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
I SEARCH_ _FEEWC           _   51TEUS____' SHOWCASE r



