Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3783 MD 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 13, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3783 MD 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding 
(the MOU) dated November 8, 2001 with other Regional Countries (as hereinafter 
defined) confirming the Borrower’s and Regional Countries’ commitment to a regional 
trade and transport facilitation in Southeast Europe program (the Regional Program); 
 
(B)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(C)  
to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends to obtain financial 
assistance from other external sources in an amount of approximately one million two 
hundred and seventy five thousand Dollars ($1,275,000)  equivalent; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement,  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“ASYCUDA” means Automated System for Customs Data provided by  
UNCTAD (hereinafter defined); 
 
(b) 
“Development Action Plan” means the strategic action plan developed 
by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Association, approved on February 7, 2002, 
Page  4
-
2
-
describing the measures to be taken to strengthen the MDC (hereinafter defined), as the 
same may be am
ended from time to time, subject to the Association’s approval; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“MDC” means the Moldova Department of Customs, the customs 
administration of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
 
“National Coordinator” means the coordinator designated by the 
Borrower to be responsible for the coordination of the Project-related activities of 
agencies of the Borrower; 
 
(g) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan setting out the measures 
required for implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, subject to the Association’s approval; 
 
(h) 
“PIT” means a project implementation team established by the Borrower 
by Decision No. 433 dated April 10, 2002, or any successor thereto; 
 
(i) 
“Project Manager” means the person designated by the Borrower to 
manage the implementation of the Project and reporting to the National Coordinator; 
 
(j) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on January 31, 2002 and on behalf of the Borrower on February 2, 2002; 
 
(k) 
“RSC” means the Regional Steering Committee established by the 
Regional Countries under the MOU for the purpose of overseeing implementation of the 
Regional Program;  
 
(l) 
“Regional Country” means each country participating in the Regional 
Program; 
 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(n) 
“TTFSE Regional Website” means a website devoted to the Trade and 
Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Regional Program; 
 
(o) 
“UNCTAD” means the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development; and  
Page  5
-
3
-
(p) 
“Website Coordinator” means the coordinator of the TTFSE Regional 
Website as designated for purposes of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
5,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to 
the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. 
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
Page  6
-
4
-
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
1
and December 1, commencing December 1, 2013 and ending June 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2023, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or 
more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
Page  7
-
5
-
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c)  
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project,  as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the MDC with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, and except 
as the Association and Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and the requirements set forth or referred to in the PIP. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
Page  8
-
6
-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,  the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association financial monitoring reports, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar 
quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of 
the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the MOU shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, 
waived or otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
the PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waved 
without the Association’s prior consent. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that the events specified in Section 5.01 
(a) and Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower has included appropriate budgetary allocations, satisfactory 
to the Association, for its counterpart contribution to the financing of the Project in the 
budget for fiscal year 2004; and 
 
(b) 
the contract between MDC and UNCTAD, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been signed. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
7,
Cosmonautilor  
 
 
2005 Chisinau 
 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
(3732) 22810    
(3732) 221 307 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Mihail Manoli 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Luca Barbone 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
340,000 
83% of local 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
foreign 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods, including 
3,460,000 
100 % of foreign 
 
equipment and materials     
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
83%
of
local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
1,140,000 
100 % for foreign 
 
including auditing 
 
consulting firms and  
 
services, and training 
 
and foreign individual 
 
consultants, 75% for 
 
local consulting firms 
 
and local individual 
 
consultants and 100% 
of 
 
eligible  
social 
charges,  
 
and 100% for training 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating                  
70,000 
90% 
 
 
Costs of the PIT 
 
(5) 
Refunding of Project 
80,000 
Amount due pursuant to 
Page  15
-
13
-
Preparation Advance 
 
Section 2.02 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) Unallocated 
210,000
TOTAL 5,300,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c)  
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual 
consultant who is not a citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(g) 
the term “eligible social charges” means the employer’s contribution 
to social and medical charges assessed by the Borrower on employment contracts 
with citizens of the Borrower; 
 
(h) 
the term “training” means the fees of educational or other institutions and 
organizations, that provide training services, cost of study tours, cost of workshops, 
related travel expenditures, boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of the trainees; 
and 
 
(i) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs of the PIT” means reasonable and 
necessary incremental expenditures incurred by the PIT on account of management of 
Page  17
-
15
-
Project implementation for office supplies, utilities, communications, office rent, office 
equipment, office maintenance and repairs, travel of PIT staff, local transport, vehicle 
operating and maintenance costs, commercial bank service charges for the Special 
Account operation, translations, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by 
the Association. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; (c) incremental operating costs of the PIT; and (d) training, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of the non-tariff costs 
of trade and transport; and (b) increase of revenue and compliance with customs 
regulations and  reduction of smuggling and corruption at border crossings. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity
Strengthening of MDC’s institutional capacity through provision of 
technical assistance and training for: (a) improvement of operations at pilot sites 
by collecting and refining performance indicators data, facilitating inter-agency 
local project teams, cooperation and awareness; and (b) re-engineering procedures 
by introducing selectivity and targeting and strengthening valuation and post-
release activities throughout the customs territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part B
:
Development of Integrated Customs Clearance and Information System
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, and training for: (a) 
installation and implementation of the ASYCUDA comprehensive system for 
customs clearance assisted by UNCTAD; and (b) computerization of MDC, 
including software, acquisition and installation of a telecommunication system 
and services. 
 
Part C
:
Implementation of a Transit and Inland Control System
Acquisition and operation of mobile intervention equipment to strengthen 
the preventive capacity of MDC along major transit routes and the border of the 
territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part D:
Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Provision of minor works, repairs, and vehicle inspection equipment for: 
(a) reorganization of the traffic flows and work stations at selected border 
locations; and (b) enhancement of customs’ control and processing capacity. 
 
Part E
:
Trade Facilitation Development
Page  19
-
17
-
(a) Participation in the TTFSE Regional Website to ensure full 
transparency of procedures and requirements of border and other relevant 
agencies and to provide travel information; (b) provision of conventional and 
distance learning training to participants in trade, logistics, and international 
freight transport through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the 
Borrower; (c) distance learning programs for road transport operators and freight 
forwarders; and (d) annual survey of trade and international transport 
environment. 
 
Part F:
Project Implementation
Provision to the PIT of: (a) salaries of the PIT staff; (b) technical 
assistance to support the implementation of the Project consisting of procurement 
and information technology advisors, external auditors, the establishment of a 
financial management system, and training for the PIT staff; and (c) incremental 
operating costs for purposes of Project management. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with international 
competitive bidding procedures referred to in Part B above and the first contract awarded 
in accordance with national competitive bidding procedures referred to in Part C.1 above 
and estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  22
-
20
-
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for Project audits shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the installation and implementation of the ASYCUDA clearance 
system  under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $775,000, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first contract procured 
under the Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications method referred to in Part C.2 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  23
-
21
-
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms and the individual consultants  
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account of amounts allocated to the Special Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
Page  25
-
23
-
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the said eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  26
-
24
-
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  27
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A
:
Implementation Responsibilities
1. 
The PIT, acting under the direction of the Project Manager, shall perform all 
technical responsibilities for Project implementation, including: (a) preparation, with the 
assistance of consultants, of bidding and contract documents under the Project; (b) 
maintenance of the Project financial records and accounts and arranging for the audit 
thereof; (c) preparation of the quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B 
of this Schedule; and (d) supervision of progress of Project implementation. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIT shall be maintained until completion of 
the Project under terms of reference and with staff and resources satisfactory to the 
Association.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the Development Action Plan shall not be 
amended without prior agreement of the Association; and (b) the Borrower’s actions in 
the area of customs modernization, including activities supported by technical assistance, 
are consistent with the PIP and Project objectives.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, at least during Project implementation, shall: (a) maintain its 
participation in the RSC, (b) participate in the preparation of its agenda; and (c) organize 
a
meeting of the RSC in turn with the other Regional Countries. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure by March 31, 2004, through the National Coordinator, 
the establishment and functioning of mechanisms at all border and other relevant 
agencies to provide the Website Coordinator with current information to be made 
available to customs users on waiting times and opening hours at border crossing and 
customs regulations and procedures of border and other relevant agencies.  
 
6. 
The Borrower shall select the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement by or before November 15, 2003. 
 
Part B
:
Reporting
The Borrower shall ensure the timely preparation by the PIT and submission to 
the Association of quarterly reports on the progress of Project implementation. 
 
Page  28
-
26
-
Part C
:
Monitoring
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators, included in the relevant 
supplemental letter, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by February 15 of each year, a report: (i) integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) 
of this Part C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and (ii) providing an annual work program for the following calendar year, 
including procurement and financing plans; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 15 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this Part C, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
