                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000476




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-37830)




                                     ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION
                        (US$7.21 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                     FOR A

           TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTH EAST
                           EUROPE PROJECT (TTFSE)




                                 October 29, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective October 26, 2007)

                       Currency Unit = Moldovan leu (MDL)
                                  1.00 = US$ 0.08713
                             US$ 1.00 = 11.47750 MDL

                                    FISCAL YEAR

                               January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

          AITA                International Association of Road Hauliers
          ATA                 Admission Temporaire/Temporary Admission
          ASYCUDA             Automated System for Customs Data
          BCP                 Border Crossing Point
          CCI                 Chamber of Commerce and Industry
          CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
          DTI                 Direct Trader Input
          EDI                 Electronic Data Interchange
          ECMT                European Conference of Ministers of Transport
          EU                  European Union
          FIATA               Federation of International Forwarding Agents
          FMS                 Financial Management System
          FMR                 Financial Management Report
          ICCIS               Integrated Customs Clearance and Information System
          INCOTERMS           International Commercial Terms
          IRU                 International Road Transport Union
          LPT                 Local Project Team
          MDC                 Moldovan Department of Customs
          M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
          MOF                 Ministry of Finance
          MCS                 Moldovan Customs Service
          MOLDPRO             Moldova PRO Committee
          MOU                 Memorandum of Understanding
          PIT                 Project Implementation Team
          QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
          RSC                 Regional Steering Committee
          SECI                Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
          SME                 Small and Medium Enterprises
          STAT                SECI/TTFSE Advisory Team
          TACIS               Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
          TTFSE               Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
          UN-ECE              United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
          UNCTAD              United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
          VAT                 Value-Added Tax
          WCO                 World Customs Organization



     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
   Country Director: Paul Bermingham
    Sector Manager: Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader: Anca Dumitrescu
  ICR Team Leader: Anca Dumitrescu

                               REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
           Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 32
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
 MAP IBRD Nos. 31814 and 31815

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Trade & Transport
                                                                    Facilitation in
Country:                Moldova               Project Name:
                                                                    Southeast Europe
                                                                    Project
Project ID:             P073626               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-37830
ICR Date:               11/08/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    MOLDOVA
Original Total
                        XDR 5.3M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 5.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Moldova Customs Service
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/13/2001    Effectiveness:       12/09/2003          12/09/2003
Appraisal:             09/10/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/10/2003    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             09/30/2007          09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                              QAG Assessments
       Performance             Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regional integration                                           Secondary        Secondary
Tax policy and administration                                   Primary          Primary
Trade facilitation and market access                            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Paul G. Bermingham                 Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:           Motoo Konishi                      Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:      Anca Cristina Dumitrescu           Anca Cristina Dumitrescu
ICR Team Leader:          Anca Cristina Dumitrescu
ICR Primary Author:       Liljana Sekerinska



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project would seek two development objectives:

  (i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
  (ii) to increase revenue and compliance, and reduce smuggling and corruption at border
crossings.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A



                                               ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increased annual trade volume/number of Customs staff
Value
quantitative or 1,170                      2,010                               2,178
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments        The comparison between the baseline value and actual value at completion shows
(incl. %        an increase by 77.8% in Customs productivity between 2002 and 2006. The
achievement)    actual value exceeds the original target value.
Indicator 2 :   Increased annual number of declarations/Customs staff
Value
quantitative or 147 (corrected baseline:   170                                 133
Qualitative)    114)

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments        Customs efficiency - as measured through this indicator only - increased by
(incl. %        about 14% during project life but did not reach the expected target. Other
achievement)    relevant indicators collected reveal a significantly improved Customs efficiency.
Indicator 3 :   Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption
Value
quantitative or Perceived as High                                              Perceived as

Qualitative)    (index=100)                                                    medium

Date achieved 12/31/2002                                                       12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Results of survey by Transparency International: 2.9 on a 1 to 5 scale
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Total import clearance time at Chisinau pilot site
Value
(quantitative   500 minutes                25 minutes           70 minutes     124
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2006           07/27/2006     05/31/2007
Comments        The original target had been unrealistically set, and revised in 2006. While the
(incl. %        actual value at completion did not reach the revised target, there was a
achievement)    significant decrease (75%) in Customs clearance time.
Indicator 2 :   Percentage of Customs physical inspection in total number of declarations
Value           90%                        30                   50             48



                                                iii

(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2006          07/27/2006    05/31/2007
Comments       In reality at the project start physical examination of goods was close to 100%.
(incl. %       The revised target was achieved, resulting in a 60% decrease in inspection of
achievement)   goods.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/25/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/20/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/25/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.53
  4     10/27/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.64
  5     02/15/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.70
  6     06/03/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.45
  7     10/19/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.98
  8     07/27/2006     Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     6.90
  9     11/22/2006     Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     7.35
  10    06/06/2007            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     7.80



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: At project preparation, Moldova had an established open trade regime,
with trade equivalent to over 95 percent of GDP in the 1998-2002 years. About 44 percent of
export destinations were accounted for by Russia, followed by EU countries (22%) and
neighboring Romania (about 10%). On the import side, Romania, Ukraine, and Russia were the
main partners (nearly 45 percent of import origins), with mineral products, machinery, and
equipment representing about 41 percent of Moldovan imports in the year 2001.

Sector Background: Moldova's customs system was set up upon the country's declaration of
independence in 1991 and involved various steps to improve customs legislation,
procedures, and documentation. The Customs Code was judged as streamlined, and EU-
compatible. However, the work of the Moldovan Department of Customs (MDC)1 showed: (i) a
relatively low level of productivity compared to other countries in the region, (ii) an obsolete IT
system, and (iii) incidence of corruption.

The Customs information system was obsolete, with modest local area networking capabilities
and mostly outdated software and hardware. Even though several computer applications for
clearance and back-office operations were developed internally, their functionality was modest
and complex thus requiring long times for document processing, and creating excessive waiting
times at borders. At the same time, MCS operated with a small Information and
Telecommunication Technology (ITT) central unit (about 17 people).

Corruption was perceived as pervasive in the entire Moldovan public sector, including the
Customs bodies and caused significant damage to the Government's budget through reducing
revenue collection. In particular, huge opportunities for smuggling and corruption existed along
the so-called Transnistria line due to the lack of effective control of the Moldovan authorities
over its eastern border with Ukraine. Smuggling activities in Transnistria affected legitimate trade
through unfair competition (notably for oil, oil products, alcohol, and cigarettes). Transnistria had
become a separate Customs territory, and the MCS did not have access to the border between
Transnistria and Ukraine, which is now the main route for smuggling into Moldova. To combat
this, the authorities had established fiscal checkpoints along the Nistru River where excise duties
in particular were collected. This system, which did not operate satisfactorily and generated
opportunities for corruption, was discontinued. Other solutions were explored, like the proposed
joint Customs and border guard patrols operated by both Moldova and Ukraine on the Ukrainian
side of the border.

Despite MCS's wide powers of enforcement, including away from the border, it lacked the
necessary resources, equipment, and training to carry out mobile checks as frequently as
necessary, thus leaving this aspect of Customs operations to other law enforcement
agencies - with the risk that the MCS might permanently lose its powers.




1 During project life the name of the Moldovan Department of Customs was officially changed to
Moldovan Customs Service (MCS).




                                                  1

This serious problem was recognized at the highest level of Government and was considered to
be a result of the high tolerance for corruption in Moldovan society, the lack of transparency
in government's transactions, the outmoded country legislation, lack of a clear anti-
corruption strategy, and a high degree of discretionary authority. Even more, various institutes
and nonprofit organizations in Moldova involved in the analysis and dissemination of public
policy issues (Institute of Public Policy, the Center for Strategic Studies and Reforms,
Transparency International) reported that Customs was perceived as the most corrupt of all
government agencies.

The lack of Customs brokers (although the Customs code provided for them) was compensated
for by intermediaries (called "Economic Agents"), which could lodge declarations on behalf
of importers. This system was not altogether transparent, because Customs did not usually have
the ability to prosecute the Economic Agents, and the real importers were often difficult to
identify.

The system was affected by insufficient coordination in terms of border management. The
integrated border management system involved numerous components and actors, such as the
veterinary and phyto-sanitary services, the roads administration, and border troops all of
which maintained offices at borders. The perception of traders at an operational level (border
post, clearance terminal) was that border agencies did not focus on collectively improving the
services they provided to traders and society. Despite the active training and consultation
activities undertaken by the International Association of Road Hauliers of Moldova (AITA), and
the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI), interaction between government agencies and the
private sector was limited and needed further support.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: The goals of the TTFSE project were consistent with the
priorities outlined by the Government in the Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper to (i) achieve economic stability and sustainable growth, (ii) encourage private sector
development and foreign direct investment, and (iii) support public sector reform by creating an
efficient administration resistant to corruption.

The TTFSE project was especially in line with objectives (ii) and (iii) above. It was intended to
help MCS better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, lowering the price of
imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Moldovan products, thereby promoting
private sector growth and creation of new jobs in the country. The project also supported the
MCS in strengthening its tax collection capacity, while reinforcing on-going efforts against
corruption and towards improving transparency of border procedures.

The Government and MCS were strongly committed to reforming the institution of Customs. In
that sense, in 2002 the MCS prepared a Development Action Plan for the reform process, later
approved by the Prime Minister. The Plan was based on the major operational objectives of MCS:
(i) modernizing Customs procedures and operations; (ii) upgrading information systems
and border facilities; (iii) reducing smuggling and corruption opportunities; (iv) strengthening
border inter-agency awareness and cooperation; (v) improving private-public interactions and the
delivery of transport and trade services; and (vi) strengthening regional cooperation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project had two development objectives: (i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport;
and (ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.



                                                  2

The project progress toward the objectives was monitored by three broad types of performance
indicators:

     (i)   a set measuring the impact of the Regional Program (by monitoring the cost and time
           required for a standard full truck load shipment traveling on three regional itineraries,
           through user surveys as well as occurrences of "petty" payments for facilitation);
     (ii)  a set measuring the overall ratios of efficiency and effectiveness of the MCS (trade
           volume per staff, revenue collected by Customs compared to total Customs cost);
           and
     (iii) a set measuring the performance of all border agencies at selected pilot sites, and
           their total impact on users.

The indicators for the third set of measurements at pilot sites included:
     (i)   number of physical or documentary examinations and their effectiveness;
     (ii)  total processing time;
     (iii) number of vehicles processed within a standard processing time; and
     (iv) occurrence of corruption.

The pilot sites were selected at appraisal and included: Chisinau (inland terminal), Leuseni and
Cahul (border crossings to Romania), and Palanka/Tudora (border crossing to Ukraine). These
pilot sites were selected based on traffic volumes, reported big delays, strategic importance of the
site, and neighboring country.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The project objectives were not revised.

At the appraisal stage, the MCS provided the data which were confirmed in the PAD as baseline
data for the project monitoring. However, soon after project implementation started, MCS revised
the figures relating to the 2002 annual number of declarations to be 180,036 as opposed to the
initial number of 230,508. As a result, also the "number of declarations/customs staff" indicator
was changed. Accordingly, the project results were compared to the revised baseline annual
number of declarations and the revised "number of declarations/customs staff".

Following an assessment of indicators realism and based on the experience in other TTFSE
program countries, the performance indicators at pilot sites were revised in 2006 by the project
team and the SECI-TTFSE Advisory Team (STAT) who assisted with indicators data collection
and reporting. As a result the 2005 agreed performance targets in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) became the 2006 and final targets (Section 3.2, Table 1). Also, the initial PAD indicator
"trucks cleared in less than 15 minutes" was suppressed since the infrastructure setup at the
clearance terminal would not allow such performance under any circumstances. Indicators
measurement and analysis continued throughout 2007 as shown in Table 1 in Section 3.2.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Improved border and inland processing and greater reliability in customs procedures brought
benefits to the entire business community, represented by transport operators, importers,
exporters, freight forwarders, other trade industries and foreign investors. The business
community was enabled to voice its opinion on the quality of the border services and to propose



                                                 3

corresponding recommendations to facilitate trade and transport through the newly established
Mold-PRO, the regional TTFSE website and continuous training. The website allows access to all
the procedures and requirements of border agencies regarding trade and international transport,
and the continuous training secures insights and awareness of customs procedures and other
border agencies requirements (Section 1.5 and Annex 2).

The poor are indirect beneficiaries of the project, through reduced corruption and waiting times at
border crossings. This effect would also apply to consumers as the reduction in border crossing
delays leads to reduced trade and transport costs and, in turn, lower cost of imported goods.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of the following components:

A. Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity. Original base cost: US$1.37 million
The component included technical assistance and training to: (i) improve operations at pilot sites
by collecting and refining performance indicators data, and facilitating inter-agency local project
teams, cooperation and awareness; and (ii) re-engineer procedures by introducing selectivity and
targeting, and strengthening valuation and post-release activities.

B. Development of Integrated Customs Clearance and Information System (ICCIS). Original
base cost: US$6 million
The component included technical assistance, provision of equipment, and training to: (i) install
and implement the Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA) comprehensive system for
customs clearance assisted by UNCTAD; and (ii) ensure the computerization of MCS through an
integrated   package    including   equipment,      software,   acquisition   and   installation of
telecommunication, and services and regional experience sharing.

C. Implementation of a Transit and Inland Control System. Original base cost: US$0.33 million
The component included acquisition and operation of mobile intervention equipment to
strengthen the preventive capacity of MDC along major transit routes and the border line. It
also supported the establishment and training of a preventive and enforcement unit
combining road patrols, the use of intelligence, monitoring of goods entered at the border
and declared inland, and random roadside checks.

D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities. Original base cost: US$0.97 million
The component provided minor works, repairs, and vehicle inspection equipment to: (i)
reorganize the traffic flows and work stations at selected border locations, and (ii) enhance
Customs' control and processing capacity at several border points.

E. Trade Facilitation Development. Original base cost: US$0.38 million
This component, financed through a US grant, supported: (i) participation in the regional TTFSE
website to ensure full transparency of procedures and requirements of border agencies, and to
provide travel information; (ii) provision of conventional and distance learning training to
participants in trade, logistics, and international freight transport through the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry (CCI); (iii) distance learning programs for road transport operators and
freight forwarders; and (iv) annual survey of trade/international transport environment.

F. Project Implementation. Original base cost: US$0.63 million
The component included the services and office equipment required to support the
implementation of the project consisting of the Project Implementation Team (PIT), procurement


                                                 4

and information technology advisors, external auditors, the establishment of a financial
management system, and training for the PIT staff.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

The data collection at pilot sites was interrupted between October 2005 and May 2006 due to the
discontinuation of US assistance. This risked the sustainability of the trade facilitation
performance indicators in Moldova, as under those circumstances the local project teams (LPTs)
were not prepared to take over the job of data collection, monitoring and reporting.

During that period, the WB team met with the US Ambassador and US Embassy staff in Chisinau
to examine means to make available funding for a US Customs advisor to continue working with
the LPTs and ensure the expected quality and reliability of data. Assistance was resumed in May
2006 and maintained successfully until project closing, when data collection and monitoring was
transferred to Customs.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis Supporting the Project, Lessons Learned Incorporated,
and the Rationale for the Bank's Intervention. The project conformed to the then existing
regional TTFSE program, which provided additional insight in success and risk factors. Among
these factors, the issue of ownership was a priority question for successful implementation of
Customs modernization. That modernization could only be achieved based on establishing close
working relationships with the other border agencies; thus the Bank insisted on the nomination of
a high level government official as National Coordinator willing and capable of frequent
interaction with all border agencies. The MCS Director General was nominated as National
Coordinator by appraisal, as well as the local project teams (LPTs) for all pilot sites, which
included representatives of all border agencies.

Earlier implementation experience showed a slow down resulting from the multiplicity of donor
contributions, thereby calling for active donor coordination. In response, the project was designed
in consultation and collaboration with the European Commission, World Customs Organization
(WCO), United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), US Government and SECI Anti-Crime
Center to coordinate all donor assistance and avoid overlaps, particularly with the parallel EU
program - the TACIS funded program. Also, agreement was reached for cooperation with the
Chamber of Commerce and AITA.

The very quick start up of the project compared to other projects reflected the strong leadership
from Customs and lessons learned from the other TTFSE projects.

Assessment of the Project Design. The project supported the implementation of the Customs
Development Action Plan, which was MCS's strategy for customs reform and was approved prior
to the project identification. The Plan was based on the major operational objectives of MCS to:



                                                 5

(i) modernize Customs procedures and operations; (ii) upgrade the information system
and border facilities; (iii) reduce smuggling and corruption opportunities; (iv) strengthen border
inter-agency awareness and cooperation; (v) improve private-public interactions; and (vi)
strengthen regional cooperation. Furthermore, the project objectives were in line with the
Government's National Program, which listed trade and transport facilitation, simplification of
procedures, fighting smuggling and corruption at borders, and regional cooperation, as
priorities.

The project components were in line with the objectives. The project design rightly approached
customs modernization from all angles, and introduced modernization of legislation, upgrading of
information technology, supply of equipment and training, and active promotion of the private
sector involvement in the reform process. Acknowledging that modernization is a reform process,
which spans beyond project life, the project focused on priority interventions capable of ensuring
quick, visible and impact-intensive results.

Implementation arrangements for the project were clearly agreed at appraisal, and the Project
Implementation Team (PIT) based in the MCS and covering procurement, credit management and
reporting functions was fully staffed before credit negotiation.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement, and/or Participatory
Processes. The Moldovan Government requested the World Bank support for the modernization
of its customs service as soon as it became aware of the Regional Program for trade facilitation
that was being prepared in its neighborhood, as the program was considered in line with its
National Program priorities mentioned above.

At the time of project preparation, Customs confirmed its commitment to the project and strong
will to reform and modernize, and accordingly designed its Development Action Plan. MCS held
extensive discussions with the Bank and the STAT throughout the process of strategy creation
and law drafting. In addition, the government established a joint committee with the Bank that
included representatives not only from MCS, but also the MOF, Ministry of Economy, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Road Transport and Communications, State Office, Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, and AITA. The Committee had a supervisory role in the design and
implementation of the TTFSE project.

Project preparation included active consultations with exporters, importers, producers, road
transport operators and their association, freight forwarders/shippers. Interviews aimed toward
identifying trade and transport impediments were initially conducted by Bank staff, followed by a
survey of Customs users (truckers and freight forwarders) carried out by Transparency
International.

Even before full membership, Moldova joined the TTFSE Regional Steering Committee2 (RSC)
as an observer as early as March 2001, and participated actively in all its subsequent meetings.
The government signed the MOU for full membership in the RSC in September 2001. The
country organized and hosted an RSC meeting of the TTFSE program countries in February 2003.




2The TTFSE Regional Steering Committee (RSC) provided a forum for exchange of best practice in sector
policy and reform decisions. It was constituted of the National/Federal/Republican Coordinators of each
participating country and also donor representatives and Facilitation Coordinators as observers.




                                                     6

Assessment of Risks and Mitigation Measures. Project risks taken into account were mainly of a
political nature and implementation capacity nature, and included: (i) risk of insufficient political
commitment; (ii) risk of inertia among border agencies; (iii) risk of PIT experiencing difficulties
in managing project funds according to IDA requirements; and (iv) risk of PIT experiencing
difficulties in following IDA procurement rules.

To address the first two risks, the project team and the government agreed that a high level
National Coordinator would be appointed, with the authority to speak on behalf of, and to all
agencies and ensure that all agreed activities were carried out.

To mitigate the risks connected to the PIT capacity, the PIT staff was trained as needed during
project preparation and implementation. All implementation-related procedures and project stages
were elaborated in the Project Operational Manual prepared by the PIT at appraisal.

2.2 Implementation

The project was launched with a well media covered workshop that informed the project
beneficiaries and stakeholders about the Regional Program and implementation aspects of the
Moldova TTFSE operation. In addition to government officials, the audience included
representatives of the implementing agency, the CCI, AITA, the private sector, and the press. The
launch workshop generated open discussions by Customs and border agencies on the topic of
procedural reforms to be supported by the project, and the role of credit beneficiaries and project
stakeholders in its successful implementation.

The deadline for project effectiveness was extended from September 11, 2003 to December 11,
2003 due to delays in meeting the effectiveness condition related to contract signing between the
Moldova government and UNCTAD. During the entire project implementation ownership has
been strong and implementation continuous.

The project was not restructured; there were no major changes made to the design, and the project
was never at risk. There was no mid-term review; as in all TTFSE projects, the Bank team and the
Borrower carried-out annual reviews of implementation progress including indicators results.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. Implementation progress was measured against three sets of performance
measurements, showing: (i) impact of the Regional Program; (ii) overall ratios of efficiency and
effectiveness of the MCS; and (iii) performance of the border agencies at pilot sites. These
measurements were linked to the achievements of the project outcomes; and performance targets
were set for the period until 2004, when indicator targets for the remaining period (2005-2006)
were revised. Thus a continuous assessment regarding progress and achievement of PDO was
made possible (the detailed targets and achievements results are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of
Section 3.2).

Monitoring used standard TTFSE methodology and definitions for each indicator to ensure
consistency and comparability with other countries in the region. Pilot sites where measurements
were carried out represented Border Crossing Points (BCPs) and an inland terminal with high
traffic volumes that reported big delays, and had particular strategic importance; they were thus
correctly chosen so as to ensure the biggest impact in terms of trade and transport traffic and




                                                 7

volumes. Several series of measurements took place at pilot sites during project preparation to
establish credible baseline figures and projections.

The experience of the other TTFSE projects led the team to also introduce monitoring through a
Customs survey of users. This survey compared the situation in 2002 and 2006 to obtain
quantitative data on the quality of Customs services and the occurrence of corruption. (See Annex
5)

M&E Implementation. Statistics were collected by the LPTs, while the STAT Team trained
Border Monitors whose role was to develop their own independent statistics by physically
observing and participating in the processing procedure. This ensured the accuracy of data
collection and compliance with existing methodological requirements for the purpose of trade
facilitation. In addition, Border Monitors were able to make recommendations on the need for
more or less frequent data collection.

Official data collection commenced in October 2004. Data Collection Forms were consolidated
on a monthly basis and carefully reviewed. The monthly results also included insight in relevant
activities at the pilot sites and a breakdown underlining the contribution to waiting time of the
various stakeholders.

M&E Utilization. Regular progress monitoring of indicators was maintained and considered a
vital indication of bottlenecks at the pilot sites. The LPTs provided recommendations based on
observations at pilot sites, statistical analysis, and interpretation of performance indicator data,
which were delivered to two levels: (i) top management of the Customs Service; and (ii) heads of
BCPs and Pilot Site Coordinators. Their work encouraged initiative and an innovative approach
among Customs officers of lower rank, particularly regarding issues associated with staffing
schemes, pilot site organization, traffic flow controls, and public facilities.

The US Customs Advisor provided onsite recommendations in response to specific areas of
concern, and shared expertise on best practices adopted in other TTFSE countries, a contribution
that was praised and considered vital by Customs. Results from pilot sites were regularly
presented at the joint pilot site meetings that represented a forum for experience exchange and
application of successful activities for all BCPs. The comparison of achieved successes and/or
lack thereof at different pilot sites, which were shown by the measurement results, provided
strong incentive to local customs authorities to achieve better results.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project had a "C" rating for environmental assessment purposes as there were no significant
environmental issues in the project. During the life of the project no such issues arose and thus
the original rating was justified.

Counterpart funding was timely.

Financial management was satisfactory and acceptable. The financial management function for
the project was adequately staffed with a qualified and experienced specialist, who received
additional training. In the last year of project implementation the PIU lost its financial specialist
and a replacement was hired. The hired replacement had abundant project experience and thus
enabled smooth continuation of the provision of financial management in accordance with Bank
procedures.



                                                   8

Annual audits performed by an independent auditor expressed clean opinion on the project's
financial statements. Quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) were submitted timely.

Procurement was smooth and clean. The initially hired Procurement specialist received timely
training in Bank procedures, and was later replaced by a new hire ­ a qualified specialist, with
sufficient experience in procurement who also received training. The function was carried out in a
satisfactory manner and in accordance with World Bank procurement procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

STAT carried out the performance indicators measurement until the end of March 2007.
Indicators from pilot sites continued to be collected by MCS as they have been accepted to
represent a valuable managerial tool to monitor performance of customs and service quality. In
that sense, the PIT which possesses the necessary capacity and sufficient experience continued
monitoring on their own. For this purpose, the PIT received the software used by the STAT.

Beyond the life of the project, monitoring will be maintained through the Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC) agreed with the Bank. The WB team and the MCS, PIT and STAT have
agreed on the methodology and transfer of monitoring and reporting for the performance indicators
after the project closing, for the purposes of the PRSC indicators, and confirmed that three indicators
­ clearance time in Chisinau inland terminal, percentage of physical examination in Chisinau, and
border entry time ­ at the TTFSE pilots will continue to be monitored according to the TTFSE
methodology of measurement.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective supported Moldova's administration reform and economic development efforts.
The project provided timely and appropriate focus on strengthening the MCS with a view to
improve the services and reduce the associated trade and transport barriers. As mentioned in
section 1.1, the project was consistent with the Bank Group Strategy for Moldova.

The objectives achieved are relevant as the new CAS focuses, among others, on (i) promoting
conditions for economic stability, growth, and employment creation; and (ii) improving public
sector governance and combating corruption. The 2005-2008 CAS targets actions to reduce the
cost of doing business, to improve corporate governance, improve transparency and
accountability in the management of public funds, expenditure programming and evaluation
practices.

The project supported the goals set in the Bank Group interim strategy for FY02-03, also
highlighted in the Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper: (i) launch a broad-
based reform of the public sector through, inter alia, creating an efficient public administration
resistant to corruption and restructuring public services to improve social indicators and alleviate
poverty; and (ii) support private sector development through measures to increase enterprise
efficiency and competitiveness, promote financial sector stability and long term development,
deepen agriculture and energy reforms, and create an enabling environment for private business
and investment. This was accomplished through: (i) extensive support for the formulation of a
proper legal and regulatory framework; (ii) training; (iii) provision of inspection equipment; and



                                                    9

(iv) full computerization and a modern information system, while ensuring that new procedures
were duly implemented at border crossing points and clearance facilities.

The design of the project which focused on the modernization of customs procedures and
installation of a modern IT system was a suitable approach as it allowed swift and tangible
improvements in customs work. In addition, the project supported the goal of private sector
development, not only by creating a more favorable and transparent environment for trade and
transport, but also through boosting the capacity of the private sector to operate in a more
intensive trade environment and to cooperate and confer its views/needs to the public sector. This,
in turn, helped assure the maintaining of results through greater transparency and private sector
participation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Achievement of Objective (i): To reduce Non-tariff Costs to Trade and Transport.
Achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory, as witnessed by the reduced import and
clearance times, and selective examination of trade. The strengthened institutional capacity of
MCS is characterized by (i) simplified and standardized Customs procedures; (ii) maintained
selective inspections based on targeting tools; and (iii) full computerization and use of
ASYCUDA clearance system. In addition, MCS has established a working relationship and
coordination with all border agencies and ongoing dialogue with the private sector.

All pilot sites have shown continuous improvements in the import clearance or border entry times.
(See Table 1) BCP Palanka-Tudora met the entry time targets throughout the entire project life.
All other pilot sites have significantly improved their entry/clearance times, and have maintained
a strong downward trend in entry times, which is expected to continue. The introduction of the
new information system and of brokers' legislation in 2006 led to increases in clearance times for
a significant part of the year; that was a normal process. However, as it has been continuously
confirmed since November 2006, as customs officers and brokers became better trained and
experienced in the new procedures clearance, entry times have been falling. Improved
performance is particularly reflected in the downward trend on import clearance times, recorded
over the past six-month period. A comparison of the baseline pilot sites clearance/entry times
measured in 2002 and the average times measured in 2007 shows the following improvements:

    i)   Chisinau Terminal ­ decrease from over 500 minutes (8 hours) in 2002 to 124 minutes (2
         hours) in 2007 (75 percent);
    ii) BCP Leuseni ­ decrease from 180 minutes (3 hours) to 60 minutes (1 hour) (67 percent);
    iii) BCP Cahul ­ decrease from 180 minutes (3 hours) to 49 minutes (73 percent); and
    iv) BCP Palanka-Tudora ­ decrease from 240 minutes (4 hours) to 39 minutes (84 percent).

The clearance times are expected to further improve after the introduction of the new selectivity
"blue channel" in ASYCUDA, once the post-release audit is fully operational. The "blue
channel" will act like the "green channel"(no control), with the difference that consignments
directed on this channel will be subject to audit, thus reassuring customs officers of thorough (but
selective) documentary and physical inspection.

One of the key features of the project is the full installation of ASYCUDA, which in turn enabled
the introduction of simplified customs procedures, multiple data entry, and creation of databases
accessible in real time at all major customs locations to support selectivity and targeting. The full
operationalization of ASYCUDA was further enabled through the parallel computerization of



                                                 10

         MCS, which provided Customs with all necessary equipment for the modernization of procedures,
         now carried out electronically.

         Selective inspections that involved the introduction of three risk channels reduced the number of
         documentary and physical examinations that do not lead to detection of irregularities, thus
         reducing delays. All pilot sites achieved the project set targets regarding the decreased physical
         examinations. For example, the inland terminal Chisinau decreased the physical examinations
         from 99 percent measured in April 2004 to 40 percent in May 2007 - a decrease by about 60
         percent.

         Time and cost to trade were further decreased through the introduction of one Customs focal
         point receiving all declarations from trade; that ceased the previous practice where each
         declaration had to be passed to several officers, each of them checking parts of the declarations.

                                          Table 1: Moldova Pilot Sites Performance

                     Year                      2002          2004            2005          2006            2007

                                             Baseline    Target Actual  Target  Actual Target Actual   Target Actual
Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal of Chisinau

Total Import Clearance Time ­ min.             500        200    144      70     145    70      257     70     124

Physical Examination by Customs ­ %             90        70     96       50     95     50      82      50     48

Irregularities/No. of Examinations ­ %          15        20      1       25      0     25      11      25     19
Pilot Border Crossing ­ Leuseni

Truck Examination ­ %                           90        60     13       40     5.0    30     12.5     30     11

Irregularities/No. of Examinations ­ %          5          7     56       10     27     15      13      15     41

Average Border Exit Time ­ min.                 40        30     67       25     71     20      57      20     47

Average Border Entry Time ­ min.               180        100    81       60     114    40      77      40     60
Pilot Border Crossing ­ Cahul

Truck Examination ­ %                           90        60      5       40     15     30      20      30     23

Irregularities/No. of Examinations ­ %          5          7      0       10      0     15      19      15     35

Average Border Exit Time ­ min.                 40        30     52       25     36     20      39      20     38

Average Border Entry Time ­ min.               180        100    51       60     83     40      78      40     49
Pilot Border Crossing Palanka ­ Tudora

Truck Examination ­ %                           90        60     12       40      3     30       6      30      8

Irregularities/No. of Examinations ­ %          5          7      0       10      0     15       0      15      0

Average Border Exit Time ­ min.                 40        30     36       25     28     20      25      20     24

Average Border Entry Time ­ min.               240        150    42       80     42     60      45      60     39


         As a result of the Local Project Teams' work, BCPs operate based on the cooperation between
         various government agencies and in dialogue with border users. Thus the following operations
         improvements have been achieved:

               (i) at least one staff is on duty at all times;
               (ii) staggered shift changes for all border agencies preventing traffic delays have been
                    introduced;
               (iii)changes to "Frontiera" system supporting the issuance of a single invoice ("bon unic") by
                    all agencies (Leuseni) have been introduced;


                                                               11

    (iv) extra commercial bank offices staff processing during peak hours at the border crossing
         has been assigned; and
    (v) a night-time duty officer to issue visas to truck drivers outside normal hours has been
         provided.

The introduction of customs brokers has brought particularly ground-breaking results, as it
ensured a simpler and more efficient tool for traders when using the services of the customs
brokers and contributed to the professionalism and efficiency of the custom service from a trade
facilitation perspective.

These innovations have jointly led to continuous improvements in pilot site performance, which
remains strong and consistent with the positive trend established over the last six months of data
collection. Reduction in times also reflects the learning process of both customs and brokers, and
also the new workload distribution. Noteworthy are the improvements at inland terminal Chisinau,
which receives the majority of trade in the country (Chart 1 below). This terminal had long been
suffering from lengthy processing times, which often reached times of over 7-8 hours (baseline,
2002). The project supported modernizations that included (i) introduction of ASYCUDA; (ii)
assigning risk channels by ASYCUDA; (iii) single window - one person looks at the declarations;
(iv) improved communication between brokers and inspectors; and (v) LPT work, led to
improvements, which today allow clearance in two hours. The fact that these improvements come
at a time of increased traffic at the terminal further confirms the improved work efficiency.

                       Chart 1. Performance of the Chisinau Inland Terminal
                                                                            Chisinau Inland Term inal


                          350


                          300


                          250


                          200


                          150


                          100


                            50


                              0
                                May-06    Jun-06   Jul-06  Aug-06   Sep-06   Oct-06     Nov-06    Dec-06   Jan-07    Feb-07     Mar-07  Apr-07   May-07


                                                                      Clearance actual time (minutes)      Target time




                                                                            Chisinau Inland Term inal




                           100




                            80




                            60




                            40




                            20




                            0
                                May-06   Jun-06   Jul-06   Aug-06   Sep-06   Oct-06      Nov-06   Dec-06    Jan-07    Feb-07     Mar-07   Apr-07   May-07


                                                            Act.exam.      Act. detect.        Target exam.       Target detect.




Limited progress has been achieved regarding the number of agencies present at borders. It is
important to continue efforts to eliminate border agencies other than customs and police from the
border, since these agencies (due to the lack of appropriate equipment and laboratory facilities)
lack the capacity to undertake any checks, which are beyond the scope of customs physical
examinations.




                                                                                      12

Achievement of Objective (ii): To Increase Revenue and Compliance, and Reduce
Smuggling and Corruption at Border Crossings. Achievement is rated satisfactory.
The project supported the transformation of the MCS into a more efficient and professional
national agency, which has established itself as a strong supporter of trade facilitation efforts of
the country. MCS has shown improvement in its performance, shown by the continuously
increased collection of revenue and trade processing. (See Table 2) Revenue collection in the
mentioned period increased almost three times.

                                         Table 2: Performance of the MCS


                MCS Performance                             2002           2003           2004         2005      2006*

 Revenue Collected/Customs Staff ­ US$000                    117          145.26         178.64         249       268

 Total MCS Cost/Revenue Collected ­ %                        2.4           1.90            2.84         2.47      1.64

 Salaries/Revenue Collected ­ %                             1.05           0.80            0.8          0.62      0.89

 Trade Volume/Staff ­ US$000                                1,170          1,462          1,637        1,974     2,178

 Annual Number of Declarations/Customs Staff                 114            110            114          138       133

 Cost Per Declaration                                         19             18            30          31.54     33.53



               Source of Actual Values                        2002           2003          2004         2005      2006*

 Total MCS Revenue Collected ­ US$ M                        183.4         253.4         337.6         448.6     515.28

 Total MCS Cost ­ US$ M                                     4.4           4.8           9.6           11.1      8.45

 Total Number of MCS Staff                                  1567          1743          1851          1801      1921

 Total MCS Salaries ­ US$ M                                 1.9           2.0           2.7           2.8       4.6

 Annual Number of Declarations                              180,036       191,811       215,069       247,650   256,182

 Trade volume ­ Import ­ US$ M                              1037.50       1428.10       1748.24       2296.08   2644.38

 Trade volume ­ Export ­ US$ M                              659.70        805.09        994.07        1104.58   1053.48

 Total Trade Volume ­ Million USD                           1833.5        2548.7        3095.9        3555.66   4185.0

Note: trade volumes reflect the official, published figures and differ slightly from the figures reported by MCS

Chart 2 confirms the improved productivity of customs, as shown by the increase in the ratio
between revenue collected and customs staff that in the period 2002-2006 marked an increase in
the amount of 129.08%. At the same time, despite the increased customs staff during this period,
productivity has been improved and is evidenced by the ratio between the trade volumes and
customs staff that in this period increased by 77.75%.




                                                            13

                                     Chart 2: MCS Performance
                    (Revenue Collected/Customs Staff and Trade Volume/Staff)



      2,500

      2,000

      1,500

      1,000

        500

          0
                 2002              2003                2004           2005                2006


                       Revenue collected / Staff ('000 USD)    Trade volume / Staff ('000 USD)



Chart 3 shows that customs costs as a percentage of revenue collected have also been decreased
by 31.86%. Also, today all salaries represent a smaller portion of revenue collected, and this
portion has been decreased by 15.15%. The introduction of a new salary policy and the
installation of ASYCUDA - both of which required additional costs - during project
implementation are evidence that the abovementioned decreases result from better revenue
collection and improved productivity.

                                     Chart 3: MCS Performance
                (Customs Costs/Revenue Collected and Salaries/Revenue Collected)



        3.00%

        2.50%

        2.00%

        1.50%

        1.00%

        0.50%

        0.00%
                   2002             2003               2004           2005               2006


                    Total Customs cost / Revenue collected (%)    Salaries / Revenue collected (%)



While revenue collected per MCS staff indicator has noted continuous rise, key indicators related
to MCS efficiency, such as cost per revenue collected or cost per declaration, worsened despite
improved revenue collection. That appears to be due to continuous increase of Customs staff, and
the dramatic cost of the administration, in particular between year 2003 and 2004. The latter cost
may be attributed to the increased operational costs incurred during implementation of
ASYCUDA and computerization systems supported by the project. It is expected that, with the
introduction of new systems, the MCS's work will become more efficient and will need less staff.
At the same time the up-coming strengthening of risk-based Customs Service management,
valuation and post-audit are likely to further improve the revenue collected. Also further efforts in
the revision of staff policy will additionally improve productivity in this setting of increased
revenue collection.


                                                    14

Selectivity and targeting capacities have been strengthened and in combination with the
ASYCUDA installation have allowed significantly improved targeting results. Namely, the
percentage of declarations assigned to the "green channel" in ASYCUDA World has increased,
resulting in: (i) increased likelihood of detection of irregularities in the process of physical
examination with concentration of resources on areas of greater risk for customs; (ii) increased
number of detections; and (iii) reduction of documentary and physical control using selectivity
criteria, developed on the basis of information by the Risk Analysis Unit and previous experience.
(See Table 1) This has been a particularly groundbreaking achievement of the project taking into
consideration the customs strong and long held belief (and legal requirement) that 100 percent of
trade must be controlled.

All pilot sites showed improvements in detection, which achieved even better results than the set
targets. The only exception to this development is BCP Tudora, a BCP which has been struggling
with detection, since it does not have adequate facilities to conduct physical examinations. Still,
the authorities have recognized this limitation and have therefore initiated the modernization of
that border crossing.

ASYCUDA enabled the application of risk analysis and automatic assignment of declarations,
both of which decreased the possibilities for corruption. Brokers are now able to register
declarations in ASYCUDA World. In addition the system module for automatic distribution of
declarations among officers on duty was launched, and replaced the in-house program. This
decreased the interference of the human factor in the control of goods and allows full insight in
the processing of trade. At the same time all customs offices are linked to the MCS headquarters
server that further increases accountability and transparency of work. ASYCUDA maintains
information on the history of each declaration, allowing full oversight of the declaration process
and decreasing opportunities for corruption. It is expected that further increase of the "green
channel" assignments will lead to even larger decreases in processing times. This will be
combined with the larger number of companies being made subject to post-release audits.

Transit is easier, more flexible and controllable due to the introduction of transit control.

Reduced smuggling is a result of (i) enhanced customs preventive and enforcement capacity; and
(ii) introduction and equipment of mobile units. The mobile squads have contributed to the fight
against contraband and at the same time improved the irregularities percentage. The mobile
squads have, in the first months of operation, recorded 556 reports on customs contraventions,
detained goods in the amount of 16,557,149 lei, detained 11 vehicles, and collected customs fees
in the amount of 610,000 lei.

Reduced corruption is a result of: (i) introduction of more transparent procedures; (ii) constant
monitoring of indicators; (iii) automatic assignment of declarations; (iv) decreased human
intervention; (v) possibility to monitor human intervention; and (vi) public insight in customs
work. A Code of Ethics for customs adopted in 2005, based on international standards, further
strengthens the efforts to fight corruption. In addition, the MCS has initiated other actions which
should deter corruption practices within the service, including: (i) a person in charge for anti-
corruption activities has been nominated; (ii) a system of rotation of customs officers has been
introduced; (iii) an anti-corruption hotline has been opened; (iv) an online system of registering
complaints has been created; and (v) the internal security service enlarged the spectrum of its
activities, including anti-corruption education of the Customs officers. All of these measures are
expected to have additional positive impact on the quality of Customs services.




                                                 15

According to the 2006 survey on corruption, the MCS has made visible progress since 2002 in
raising the efficiency of its services, ensuring access to information, building a dialogue with
business people and civil society. However, its progress in terms of preventing corruption among
customs officers is still modest, as corruption in Customs is perceived as medium (2.9 on a 1 to 5
scale) by respondents (See Annex 5).

3.3 Efficiency

The completed project had an estimated net present value of US$18.7 million, based on the
methodology and baseline used during the project appraisal. Reduction in border processing time
was considerable (over 47 percent on average at pilot sites between 2002 and 2006). The
reduction started rapidly with the introduction of selective control at the project outset. The
economic rate of return was above 50 percent and the net present value significantly higher than
the originally forecasted US$1.6 million. The total annual savings for users, resulting from
reduction in border crossing time at pilot crossings and clearance in Chisinau is estimated at
almost US$7 million annually as of 2007. It is worth noting that in line with the overall project
objective of facilitating trade, Moldova experienced solid trade expansion during the project life,
which is not considered directly as part of the analysis since it results from many different factors.
It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits (US$1.4
million per annum as of 2007) used in the evaluation is an understatement of the actual impact of
improved border crossings and clearance facilities. The impact of the customs information system
rolled out in Moldova is not calculated, although it is expected to be significant.

The fiscal impact of the project is considered positive, as a result of improved procedures and
information systems for customs. The MCS increased its tax collections from US$183 million in
2002 to US$515 million in 2006. The overall efficiency indicators also underline major
improvement in Customs efficiency over the period with a reduction in Customs cost to revenue
collected to about 1.6 in 2006 from 2.4 percent in 2002, at par with good performers in the region.
Since Customs administrations are not revenue earning entities, no financial rate of return was
calculated. Part of the increase in revenue collection can be associated with the enhanced
processing by Customs, particularly at the Chisinau pilot site. The calculation of direct fiscal
impact was however not possible since many factors played a role (trade increase, reduction in
tariffs, free trade agreements) and attribution of impact would be highly subjective.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the discussion and ratings given in Sections 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3, the overall outcome is
rated as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Transport operators, importers and exporters and freight forwarders were the direct beneficiaries
of the projects as they benefited from (i) modernized customs procedures; (ii) functional
ASYCUDA; (iii) lower expenses; (iv) more reliable business environment; (v) time savings; and
(vi) reduction of corruption. Travelers and tourism benefited as well due to the shortened waiting
times and improved travel conditions enabled by the improved facilities and procedures.




                                                  16

The regional TTFSE website, funded through the US grant, allowed access to all the procedures
and requirements of border agencies regarding trade and international transport, thereby
increasing certainty of the business climate. The timely updating of the website along with the
relevance of information posted ensured that the website became a valuable tool used by the
private sector. Analyses made by AITA confirmed that the majority of their members use the
website for conducting business daily. The improved transparency also reduced opportunities for
illegal payments. The electronic forum under the website empowered the business community in
the region and outside by enabling it to voice its opinion on the quality of the border services
received and to propose corresponding recommendations to facilitate trade and transport activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project resulted in the strengthening of the MCS, manifested through the following:

Procedural Changes in Customs Work. The project was instrumental in the implementation of
new concepts at pilot sites stemming from the amendments to the Customs Code. Primarily, this
refers to the introduction of selectivity and risk analysis, represented by the red/yellow/green
channels in ASYCUDA. The introduction of simplified procedures and electronic submission of
declarations is also a monumental advancement in customs work, impacting not only trade and
transport costs but also transparency and accountability of customs work. These procedural
changes were further supported through the training of customs staff in the application of new
procedures and use of equipment/ASYCUDA provided through the project.

Modernization of IT System. The project provided for the full installation of ASYCUDA World
and the creation and implementation of a new IT system that enabled the operationalization of the
new procedures.

Performance Monitoring. A key achievement of the project was the adoption of performance
monitoring as a managerial and operational tool of MCS.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

No major unintended impacts or outcomes of the project were noticed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

See Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to low

Moldova has put orientation towards the European Union (EU) and alignment with the EU
standards firmly at the centre of its political agenda, and this factor is considered a significant
motivation to maintain reform and achievements attained. The implemented reforms are
considered an irreversible event; it is unlikely that development outcomes could be jeopardized
due to the following:

    i)    Project Supported Values that are Critical to Fulfilling the Long-term Objective
          of Achieving Sustainable Growth. Continuous upgrading of the Customs services,
          procedures, management, and equipment based on a re-engineered budget would



                                                 17

          enable Customs to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and
          continued compatibility with the EU.

    ii)   Project Outcomes and Goals are Deeply Embedded in the Customs Program. The
          project goals are now incorporated into MCS objectives as part of its annual plan, key
          staff at pilot sites, including LPTs is supportive of the program reforms, and capable of
          moving forward with support from upper management; and strong commitment from
          MOF to the program are the main factors which strengthen the sustainability on
          development outcomes since they have resulted in continued pressure on customs to
          continue expansion of program concepts.

    iii)  High Public Awareness and Interaction between Private Sector and Customs. The
          wide publicity given to the achieved results, and the availability of public information,
          makes it difficult for government to backtrack. The risks are controllable as
          transparency in customs operations is ensured through the newly designed procedures
          and legal framework. Local oversight and private sector participation make all relevant
          institutions more accountable.

    iv)   Inter-agency and Cross-border Cooperation. The approach and culture promoted
          through the project are further supported by the EU Border Assistance Mission
          (EUBAM) and through the EU-funded project: Border management - Simplification
          and harmonization of customs procedures. Furthermore, the established LPTs will be
          maintained at border crossings which should ensure that interagency communication
          and coordination under the lead of customs will be maintained.

Sustainability and Maintenance of the ICCIS. The maintenance of the Customs
Computerization System, including ASYCUDA, will be outsourced to a new (to be created by
Government Decision) state enterprise, "VamatechInfo", to include skilled IT staff who can be
remunerated at market wage levels. This represents a step forward in ensuring the proper
maintenance of the system. Still, attention should be paid to develop the necessary expertise in
ASYCUDA maintenance, particularly in the context of the recent modifications/improvements in
the system.

Performance Monitoring. Monitoring using key indicators will be continued beyond project life,
as Customs management is determined to follow-up on performance monitoring. In addition, as
elaborated in section 2.3, monitoring will be continued through the Bank-financed PRSC. This
suggests that the gains under the program will likely be lasting and extended to cover the totality
of the Customs crossing points.

Training Courses and Regional Cooperation. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI)
indicated that it would likely continue to offer some training courses to be funded primarily by
the participants. Regional cooperation is likely to continue, especially among the SECI-PRO
committees in view of the strong CCI and private sector interest in these fora.

TTFSE Website. For the time being AITA is committed to maintain the national part of the
TTFSE website and cover all expanses from its own resources. This decision was confirmed by
its management. However, should hosting costs need to be covered by the organization; the
maintenance of the website will come into question.




                                                  18

Risks that require specific mitigation measures and monitoring for the maintaining of the
development objectives are as follows:

i)    Coordination among agencies at the national level, which although improving is essential to
      achieve the two main program objectives. MCS has managed to establish itself as a
      potential `lead' agency that would take on the responsibility for coordination, however it
      has to continuously receive high-level government support in order to be able to maintain
      coordination between the numerous agencies with border competences; and

ii)   RSC Meetings. It is unclear whether the RSC meetings of the Customs Directors will be
      continued after the program has ended. The extent to which the RSC will be sustainable
      depends on country interest and ownership.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project was prepared by a core team of three specialists with a good skill mix
(customs specialist, trade facilitation specialist, and transport specialist) with a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower. Such a skills mix ensured that the modernization issues
were handled from all relevant aspects, which in turn resulted in a comprehensive project for
trade and transport facilitation. The extensive collaboration and consultation with all beneficiaries
and other affected groups ensured adequate identification of needs, priorities and necessary
interventions, and secured strong country ownership from the preparation stage. In addition, the
project was prepared in collaboration with the US government, the EC, and relevant UN agencies.

The project rightly pointed out to potential political risks and identified adequate safeguards in
the loan agreement and project component design. In accordance with the Borrower fiduciary
capacity assessment, staffing of the PIT was completed at appraisal and necessary training was
planned.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.

The supervision of the project was continuous and involved several instruments: (i) regular
interactions between Task Team Leader and PIT to both prepare and follow up missions; (ii)
formal supervision missions at least twice every fiscal year; (iii) monthly report from US Team;
(iv) PIT quarterly progress reports; (v) meeting with the National Coordinator and PIT Manager
at Regional Steering Committee meetings (twice a year); (vi) regular meetings from team with
UNCEFACT/Stability PACT/WCO/UNCTAD/UNECE; (vii) quarterly participation in regional
meetings of public private committees for trade and transport facilitation representing all TTFSE
countries; (viii) co-chairing of the Customs Donors' meetings in the country; and (ix) monthly
conference call with STAT to keep track of progress in indicators results and customs reforms.




                                                  19

This methodology contributed to developing a close working partnership with all counterparts in
the MCS, to ensure commitment to accomplishing project objectives, ownership of subsequent
outcomes and initiative on future action. All project activities were adequately documented and
reported to the MCS and the WB.

Supervision was provided sufficient budget and staff resources, and was adequate and meticulous.
The relationship with the client was cordial and productive. Review teams included specialists in
customs, trade facilitation, transport, financial management, and procurement, allowing the
adequate handling of all arising issues. Missions were supported by the WB Country Manager in
Moldova as needed. Implementation progress was adequately reported, and implementation
problems were identified early and addressed proactively. Performance ratings given in the
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were realistic, and sufficient attention was paid to the
project's likely development impact.

Supervision paid careful attention and made effective use of Monitoring and Evaluation as a tool
for management, oversight, and public promotion. Indicators were consistently discussed with the
Borrower, thereby allowing the planning of procedural/legal/technical improvements to be
initiated. Supervision reports were sufficiently detailed and well written and highlighted key
issues, with action plans for next steps.

Stakeholders expressed unvarying praise for the responsiveness and expertise of WB staff and
consultants. Working relationships with the second largest co-financing donor, USAID, have
been effective throughout.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed in Section 5.1
(a) and (b), Overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance is rated satisfactory. During preparation, the borrower showed the
necessary level of commitment to the project by initiating and carrying out the initial reform
measures. The government endorsed a comprehensive Development Action Plan designed by the
MCS. The government put in place the necessary legislative framework, allowing selectivity,
mandating Customs to act as trade facilitators, and introducing electronic submission of
declarations. The PIT was sufficiently staffed as per the agreement with the WB, and necessary
preparations for implementation were timely undertaken.

The country actively participated in the work of the RSC, and successfully hosted an RSC
meeting of the TTFSE program countries in February, 2003.

During the entire project implementation ownership has been strong and implementation
continuous. The government maintained its reform strategy during project implementation both in
the legislation modernization and in the introduction of the new organizational structure of the
Customs Administration. The project enjoyed the full attention of, and monitoring by the Vice-
Prime Minister due to the importance attached to customs reforms in Moldova.



                                               20

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The MCS was committed to achieving the development objectives. The PIT was adequately
staffed. The National Coordinator and the PIT Manager managed to create a PIT with sufficient
knowledge and dedication to the project. The PIT was provided sufficient resources to perform
well. Financial management of the project was highly satisfactory with positive audit findings.
Reporting was timely and sufficiently detailed. The procurement function was also carried out in
a satisfactory manner and in accordance with World Bank procurement procedures.

The PIT communicated well with the Bank, and other donors, and followed up on agreed next
steps and recommendations.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Government and Implementing Agency performance as discussed in Section 5.2 (a)
and (b), Overall Borrower Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

         High Level Government Support is Key to Success. Building a tradition of inter-
         agency communication and information sharing as well as building the mechanisms on
         which such communication can be based, needs a high-level government commitment
         and ideally a champion. Such a person/agency needs to be able to direct concerns to the
         highest levels of management in the ministries responsible for the agencies engaged in
         border control. This implies knowledge of the national political system and the power to
         navigate through that system.

         Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-
         sectoral and multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight
         agencies are involved, their active participation and cooperation are essential for
         successful implementation and achievement of project, objectives and also to ensure
         sustainability. A cooperative culture should be encouraged and promoted from the top
         down by the management of regulatory agencies.

         Permanent membership in the Local Project Teams ensures capability for
         significant impact. Local Project Teams can initiate grass root ideas and activities
         toward the goal of modernization. A variable membership in the LPT limits its
         capability for more significant impact and its proactive approach.

         Importance of Ongoing Cooperation between Operational Staff and IT Staff.
         Modernization of border processes begins with the revision of procedures but necessitates
         that these procedures are followed by the introduction of new IT solutions for improved
         communication between traders and agencies, and timely exchange of information
         between agencies. The cooperation between operational staff and IT staff ensures that
         operational needs and procedural modernizations will be translated into new IT options.

         Parallel Modernization of all Border Agencies. Customs, although the lead agency in
         the trade facilitation process, is insufficient, by itself, to ensure the smooth operation at


                                                   21

       the border site. The multi-sectoral and multi-agency nature of border processes requires
       that all actors improve their performance so as to ensure proper operation. Parallel
       modernization efforts by all agencies would ensure that they would be able to keep with
       the strong pace set by Customs.

       The Replication and Scaling up of Lessons Learned in Trade Facilitation to Other
       Sites. This must always be set within the specific context of the site where the application
       is to take place, as well as take into account relevant national systems impacting on trade.
       The application action plan needs to be prepared on a comprehensive basis with the
       ownership of the various stakeholders that are involved. The economic rate of return for
       such replication is considerable.

       Private Sector/User Involvement is an Essential Part of Trade Facilitation. Such
       involvement enables an adequate analysis of the trade patterns to find the main
       bottlenecks and identify optimal measures for improvements. Also, it must be ensured
       that the capacity building and modernization of the private sector is analog to the reforms
       in Customs, so as to ensure that introduced reforms are applied in private operations.

Bank-related Lessons

       Result-oriented Approach. The main characteristic of the project was that it was result-
       oriented with measurable indicators. This unique quality was a major factor which
       contributed to the success of the project.

       Regional Approach. With a regional approach, it is possible for a project to achieve
       better results than a stand-alone project. This approach creates peer pressure among the
       participating countries, which in turn generates competitive spirit and motivation
       amongst them to perform better.

Other

       The Contribution of the US as a Parallel Financier Contributed Significantly to the
       Success of the Project. The US State Department and USAID contributions were
       instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of the
       Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance to the private sector. Likewise,
       US Customs financed the presence of customs advisors in Moldova to help with data
       collection, monitoring indicators, and improving the risk-management system.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                      Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest
           Components                                                                   Percentage of
                                         (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                    millions)             Appraisal

STRENGTHENING OF MDC
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                             1.30                   1.48             113.85%

DEVELOPMENT OF
INTEGRATED CUSTOMS
CLEARANCE AND                                      5.45                   6.05              111%

INFORMATION SYSTEM
IMPLEMENTATION OF A
TRANSIT AND INLAND                                 0.30                   0.32             106.6%
CONTROL SYSTEM
IMPROVEMENT OF BORDER
CROSSING FACILITIES                                0.80                   0.59             73.75%

TRADE FACILITATION
DEVELOPMENT                                        0.34                   0.34              100%

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                             0.54                   0.35             64.80%


              Total Baseline Cost                  8.73                   9.32

Physical Contingencies                             0.37

Price Contingencies                                0.58
              Total Project Costs                  9.68                   9.32              96.3%
Project Preparation Fund                           0.10                   0.06               60%
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.00                   0.00               0.00
       Total Financing Required                    0.00                   0.06




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds                     Type of        Estimate        Estimate     Percentage of
                                            Cofinancing         (USD            (USD         Appraisal
                                                              millions)       millions)
Borrower                                                         1.19           0.14           11.76%
US, Govt. of                                                     1.28           1.28           100%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                                7.21           7.78           107.9%

Note:    The reallocation of funds among categories during the project life led to decreased need for
Government financing (the bulk of this co-financing was supposed to be in works). This combined with the
dollar depreciation caused the materialization of a lower percentage of Borrower contribution.
         Donor funds are only estimated since it was not handled through the project financial management
system. However, all the services were delivered as per the appraisal estimates.



                                                     23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

A. Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity

a) Improvement of Operations at Pilot Sites

The inter-agency Local Project Teams were established by a Government decision dated June 29,
2004, which explained the tasks of all border agencies and was intended to facilitate the
cooperation between agencies at operational level. As the system was burdened by insufficient
coordination in terms of border management (all agencies, including veterinary, phyto-sanitary
services, as well as the road administration and border guards maintained offices at the border
crossings), the LPTs were particularly important in raising the agencies' awareness of the
importance of performance measurements at BCPs and marked improvement in interagency
cooperation. LPTs met monthly at the pilot sites and were active in identifying problem issues at
pilot sites and designing suggestions for improved and streamlined procedures. In that sense, the
LPTs succeeded to:

    i) Reduce the number of stamps used in clearance;
    ii) Eliminate handwritten records;
    iii) Harmonize working hours between agencies; and
    iv) Separate passenger traffic from trucks at BCPs.

Still, the lack of permanent membership in the LPT somewhat limited its capability for more
significant impact and its proactive approach. Their further efforts are particularly important in
the aim to modernize and harmonize the working hours of banks with the ones of Customs (lunch
breaks, available staff).

b) Re-engineering of Procedures

Customs legislation was amended in February 2005, to introduce selectivity in checks on cleared
goods. Selectivity allows goods to be assigned to three different risk level channels
(red/yellow/green channel) according to the risk criteria based selectivity process. In the last two
years of project implementation, MCS has been changing the strategic percentage of control and
non-control to be applied from 75% red/ 15% yellow/ 10% green channel (in place since June
2006) to 50% red/ 30%yellow /20% green channel (October 2006). Customs is undertaking
activities aimed toward changing this ratio to 40% red / 15% yellow / 35% green mid 2007.

The introduction of selectivity required prior establishment and organizational set up of the Risk
Analysis Unit (RAU), which initially suffered from inadequate staffing. However, the project
supported the continuous training of the Unit members on: (i) transit control; (ii) selectivity and
targeting; and (iii) valuation and post-release services. In addition, a train-the-trainer (TTT)
training on risk analysis management was delivered as well as training on how to input selectivity
criteria in ASYCUDA.

The Unit prepared a risk management strategy and identified the basic risk profiles and criteria.
Since April 2006, risk profiles have been entered in the ASYCUDA World Informational
System's Selectivity Module by the RAU Unit. This was followed by the reduction of directed
customs declarations to the RED channel to 90%. RAU continuously developed risk criteria for
selective examination of declarations, which at project closing had reached 182. Furthermore,



                                                24

reporting on risk management can be generated through ASYCUDA, thus enabling the creation
and input of new criteria.

However, the shift from ex-post to ex-ante examination is still to be developed.

The implementation of Post Release Audit (PRA) and Selectivity-based Transit Control allowed
the completion of the package on re-engineering of Customs procedures and provided the
necessary tools for a comprehensive application of risk management in Customs activities.

The project provided training and methodology development that included:

        methodology of defining the selectivity criteria for post release audit;
        guidance on the methodology to setup a companies' data basis;
        recommendation report on the PRA unit organization and structure;
        brief legislation gap analysis report with recommendations; and
        five-day training seminar delivered to 22 Customs officers based on practical, real life
        and customized case studies.

Regarding selectivity-based transit control, MCS trained 17 trainers on risk analysis methodology
applied to transit operations, and was given insight in the main principles of the European New
Computerized Transit System (NCTS) and Common Transit. Furthermore, MCS received
assistance to:

        establish the methodology to define the selectivity criteria specific to transit control
        operations based on real and practical study cases;
        set up the organization of Customs control for transit operations with a practical gap
        analysis and theoretical proposals; and
        develop the methodology to input the selectivity criteria into the Asycuda system.

Legislation was amended to allow the organization of Customs brokers and this legislation has
been enforced since March 2006. Today some 40 customs brokers have been authorized and two
Customs brokers associations have already been created to regulate the market. This new system
contributes to the professionalism and efficiency of the custom service from a trade facilitation
perspective, and offers the traders a simpler and more efficient tool when using the services of the
Customs brokers.

B. Development of Integrated Customs Clearance and Information System (ICCIS)

a) Installation and Implementation of ASYCUDA Clearance System

ASYCUDA was fully installed, initially in the small customs offices, in order to avoid
disturbances to trade and traffic. In parallel, training of three groups of customs officers was
provided in the UNCTAD training center in Geneva. At the same time, an ASYCUDA training
room was created and fully equipped (laptops, projectors, flipcharts), so that by the end of the
project, 530 customs representatives and 500 representatives from different economic entities had
been trained.

The Parliament adopted necessary legislation to enable: (i) full ASYCUDA implementation; (ii)
risk-based management; (iii) functioning of customs brokers; and (iv) operation of mobile squads.




                                                 25

b) Computerization of MDC

The MCS established a Steering Committee to lead the computerization of MCS, which also
discussed and confirmed the delivery schedule and project plan. Equipment that was provided to
Customs included: servers, computer printers, telecommunication equipment and software.

With the assistance of the USTDA Grant, a telecommunication study was carried out and formed
the basis for the procurement of the IT package for the computerization of MCS.

C. Implementation of a Transit and Inland Control System

This component aimed to strengthen the preventive capacity of MCS.

The project provided control equipment, laptops and connection systems with ASYCUDA,
mobile phones, binoculars, and six vehicles for the mobile squads. Prior to any procurement, the
MCS adopted appropriate legislation defining the organization, operation, structure, staffing, and
training needs of the mobile squads. Such sequencing of activities ensured that appropriate
specifications for the mobile squads' vehicles and equipment would be detailed.

A training course was delivered by Eurocustoms/French customs officers on the control
techniques of road vehicles including the use of selectivity criteria grid such as the CRILOG and
SCIROCCO - applications used by the French Customs. The mobile squads operate under the
RAM department and will function within the scope of the agreed operational guidelines.
Additional training on preventive capacity and investigation will be provided from European
Union Border Assistance Mission to Moldova and Ukraine (EUBAM).

The results of the mobile squads are improving but are still modest (56 customs contraventions, 2
criminal reports, 11 vehicles detained for violation of the matriculation procedure, in 2006).

D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

Seven BCPs were equipped with twelve canopies, thereby improving the conditions for physical
control. These canopies allow that checking is performed regardless of the climate conditions.

E. Trade Facilitation Development

a) Strengthening of Private-Public Partnership. This component supported the activities of the
Moldova PRO -Committee (MOLDPRO), which was made up of 35 representatives of
                 3

government and private sector institutions, as well as of the Council and secretariat.

The MOLDPRO created 4 specialized working groups: E-business Simplification and facilitation
of border crossing procedures for transport means, conventional training, and international




3PRO is not an acronym; it reflects the idea of simplifying trade Procedures and also is used with reference
to Promotion.




                                                    26

cooperation. Its work was organized in accordance with a yearly agenda examined and adopted
for each of the working group.

Public Outreach. The Chamber of Commerce published 400 books on various topics, including
transit procedures, INCOTERMS, modes of payment and business ethics. It prepared, translated
and implemented training sessions in their entirety. The Pro Committee designed user guidelines
on the Convention on ATA. Also, numerous radio and TV broadcasts were organized.

In 2005 in Orhei and Chisinau, two seminars regarding "Practical aspects of electronic commerce
in the Republic of Moldova" and "The object of the financial tools in exports promoting" were
held.

MOLDPRO organized awareness campaigns on the related modifications in the EU legislation.
The CCI participated in two surveys (cycles) of the economic agents regarding the problems
faced by them at border crossings during which between 260 and 300 economic agents were
interviewed.

Regional Cooperation. MOLDPRO was particularly active in regional cooperation, as it
considered it a valuable opportunity for regional cooperation between businesses. The strong
support shown by Moldova for the CEFTA 2006 agreement was mentioned by the CCI as a result
of the regional cooperation.

Now, MOLDPRO has initiated that the regional cooperation established within the TTFSE
project be applied to the cooperation within CIS and the Black Sea region countries.

TTFSE Website. The government adopted a decision on June 29, 2004 establishing a cooperation
mechanism among all border and other relevant agencies in order to provide AITA with information
for the website. The web coordinator received appropriate training, and each agency selected a
contact person for the information upload. The website was fully uploaded and was deemed
particularly important due to Moldova's transit position.

The decreased number of phone requests for information, is considered by AITA as a further
confirmation about the degree of usage of the website.

b) Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents. In the first year, it
organized 18 seminars. In the second year, the training program covered 18 of the 33 rayons in
Moldova, reaching out to 1430 participants. It organized 10 seminars on capacity building for
brokers on new legislation and clearance procedures. Also beginning in 2007, a new two-month
training program is offered tackling Moldova's attempts in joining the Central European Free
Trade Agreement (CEFTA) and the new asymmetric trade preferences with EU under the GSP+
framework to become effective this summer.




                                                27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The completed project had a net present value of US$18.7 million, based on the methodology and
baseline used during the project appraisal. Reduction in border and clearance processing time was
considerable (over 47 percent on average at pilot sites). It started rapidly with the introduction of
selective control at the project outset. The economic rate of return was above 50 percent and the
net present value much higher than the originally forecasted US$1.6 million.

The total annual savings for users, resulting from reduction in border crossing time at pilot
crossings is estimated at almost US$7 million annually as of 2007. It is worth noting that in line
with the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Moldova experienced solid trade expansion
during the project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis since it results from
many different factors. It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of
transport benefits (US$1.4 million per annum as of 2007) used in the evaluation is an
understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossings and clearance facilities. The
impact of the information system rolled out in Moldova is not calculated, although it is expected
to be significant.

Costs

The credit amount was in line with (but exceeded a little, due to the depreciation of US$) what
had been originally anticipated in the Project Appraisal Document at US$7.9 million. Costs were
spread over four years as expected.

Project Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of
waiting times at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade
expansion resulting from the project.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions

The savings on transport costs at the pilot border crossings and the inland terminal where
performance was measured under the project are estimated at US$6.9 million by 2007 versus
US$2 million at appraisal. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals (see Table 1 and 3)
have been substantially reduced with an estimated 47 percent processing time reduction on
average for the four pilot sites. These benefits were significantly higher than projections made in
the project appraisal document, primarily because clearance traffic to the Chisinau terminal
(about 180 trucks per day) was substantially higher than expected at appraisal. Initial benefits
appeared early on with the adoption of selective processing and increased further in 2007, after a
period of adaptation to the new Customs information system in 2006. Based on industry
feedback, the daily cost of trucks increased in the region to about US$400 in 2007 above the
estimate of US$350 used for the appraisal, but US$350 was kept for the purpose of this analysis
(see Progress report 2004 and ICRs for other seven TTFSE projects).

Economic Impact of Increased Trade

The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs revenue collection clearly exist
but is difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors influencing the macro-economic
development and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company competitiveness, in particular their
ability to deliver reliably their inputs in international supply chain, depends nonetheless on their


                                                   28

capacity to assess border transaction cost (direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty.
Since 2001, Moldova, and other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed strong growth
of their trade volumes. For Moldova, trade increased from US$1.8 billion (2002) to US$4.2
billion (2006). In the meantime, revenues collected by Moldovan Customs increased from
US$183 million to US$515 million. These macro performances are not directly attributable to the
TTFSE project, but rather reflect significant economic changes witnessed in Moldova, as well as
a broad range of technical assistance programs, including the TTFSE project.

For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of
additional transport benefits linked to increased trade (or about US$1.4 million per annum) was
added, as per the approach used during appraisal. The 20 percent coefficient is based on broader
research (Venables) available at time of appraisal and considered appropriate by peer reviewers.
Recent research in this field (Trading on Time ­ January 26, 2006 ­ WB) indicates that, on
average, one day of delay reduces trade by at least 1 percent. Considering Moldovan trade of
US$4.2 billion, a reduction of 1 day could translate into U$42 million of additional trade.
Considering the significant reduction in border crossing and clearance time, the consequent trade
increase and the trade gain economic benefit linked to shorter time and improved market access
are likely to have been significant, albeit difficult to quantify. Accordingly, the ICR economic
evaluation retained the appraisal assumption instead.




                                                29

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members

          Names                      Title              Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Graham Smith           Lead Transport Specialist       ECSIE Lead Specialist
Michel Audige          Program Team Leader             ECSIE Program Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu        Transport Specialist            ECSIE Task Team Leader
Michel Zarnowiecki     Senior Customs Specialist       ECSIE Customs Specialist
Gerald Ollivier        Transport Specialist            ECSIE Transport Specialist
Zoe Kolovou            Legal Counsel                   LEGEC Legal Counsel
Irina Luca             Procurement Advisor             ECSIE Procurement Specialist
Ahmet Gokce            Procurement Advisor             ECSIE Procurement Specialist

Bogdan Constantinescu  Financial Management Specialist ECCRO Financial Management
                                                             Specialist
David Freese           Disbursement Officer            LOAG1 Disbursement Specialist

Phillip Moeller        Consultant                      ECSIE Institutional Development
                                                             Specialist
Kenneth Gwilliam       Consultant                      EASTE Peer Reviewer
James Walsh                                                  Peer Reviewer (IMF)

Silvia Paginu          Executive Assistant, Chisinau
                       Bank Office                     ECCMD Executive Assistant


Supervision/ICR
Anca Dumitrescu        Sr. Transport Specialist        AFTTR Program Team Leader

Irina Babich           Financial Management Specialist ECSPS Financial Management
                                                             Specialist
Sandu Ghidirim         Operations Officer              ECSSD Operations Officer
Ahmet Gokce            Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECSPS Procurement Specialist
Zoe Kolovou            Lead Counsel                    LEGOP Lead Counsel
Liljana Sekerinska     Consultant                      ECSSD ICR Author
Gurcharan Singh        Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECSPS Procurement Specialist
Vladimir Skendrovic    Consultant                      ECSSD Implementation Specialist
Bernard Touboul        Consultant                      AFTTR Customs Specialist
Marie Laygo            Program Assistant               ECSSD Program Assistant




                                              30

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of Staff Weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                        1.25
  FY02                                                                       98.65
  FY03                                                                       66.82
  FY04                                                                        0.07
  FY05                                                                        0.04
  FY06                                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                                        0.00
                             Total                                          166.83
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                        0.00
  FY02                                                                        0.00
  FY03                                                                        0.00
  FY04                                                                       51.57
  FY05                                                                       78.07
  FY06                                                                       77.73
  FY07                                                                       61.09
                             Total                                          268.46




Note: Staffweeks are no longer supported by Bank Information Systems.




                                             31

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Prior to project completion the Bank commissioned a study exploring the perceptions and
experiences with the customs control, services and border officers and comparing the situation in
2006 with year 2002 (start of project implementation). The study targeted over 200
forwarding/broker firms on the pilot sites and at the Chisinau inland terminal as well as medium
size transport and trading firms (below 200 staff). The study was undertaken even though a
number of other surveys were conducted through other initiatives regarding Customs (e.g. BEEPS,
the Cost of Doing Business, etc), because it was considered that those surveys were typically
based on the perception of the general public or of firms not necessarily interacting with Customs,
and not necessarily familiar with the present situation in Customs. The study was carried out by
Transparency International-Moldova in November-December, 2006 (see box below) and it
indicated that moderate progress had taken place regarding the efficiency of Customs and
reduction of corruption during the project life (2002-2006).

It particularly focused on the following issues: equality and stability of treatment; perceptions of
process and procedure of customs services; perceptions of process and procedure of other border
services; awareness and problems related to laws and regulations; procedure problems; logistical
problems; and existence and nature of informal payments. The full report was made available to
Customs and also discussed with the main project stakeholders in the Ministry of Finance and the
Cabinet.

Key Findings

The surveyed companies considered that the MCS made visible progress since 2002. As a whole,
results showed that during 2002-2005 the Customs Service made some noticeable success in
terms of raising the efficiency of its services, ensuring access to information, building a dialogue
with business people and civil society; however its progress in terms of preventing corruption
among customs officers is still modest. All parameters addressed (transparency, equality of
treatment, standardization of procedures, ability to lodge a complaint, frequency of petty
payment) show slight to medium improvement. Corruption in Customs is assessed as medium
(2.9 on a 1 to 5 scale) by respondents.

                        Summary Table on Overall Customs Performance

             Topic                  Percentage of respondents            Percentage who saw
                                    who agree or mostly agree          improvement compared to
                                               in 2006                            2002

 Fair Treatment                                   92                               24
 Standard Processing                              90                               41
 Transparency of                                  85                               62
 Requirements
 Efficiency                                       64                               35

Just a few surveyed individuals indicated that there had been a worsening in these four
parameters.

Among border agencies (9 in total), the Border Guards were pointed out as the agency that
improved the most, followed by Customs; bearing in mind, however, that importers/exporters,



                                                  32

transporters and freight-forwarders have, by the nature of their activity, by far more interaction
and issues with Customs than with Immigration.

The survey was also closely focused on the incidence of corruption (of administrative nature).

The spread of corruption in Moldovan Customs, although decreasing, remains substantial. About
half of respondents stated that they pay no bribe (33%) or pay rarely (18%) in 2006 in order for
their shipment to cross the border or to be cleared. When comparing the situation with 2002,
about 48% of the respondents say they pay fewer bribes in 2006 or do not pay at all. When
dealing with the Border Guards, 86% of the companies did not have to pay anything unofficially,
or did that rarely. The average size of the unofficial payment to the Customs officers has not
changed in 2006 compared to 2002 and is around US$33; the one for the Border Guard is about
US$17. In terms of frequency, payments are perceived by the vast majority of respondents (95%)
as less frequent (48%) than, or similar (47%) to, 2002. The main stated reason for bribing or
providing a gift to officers is to accelerate processing (50% of respondents who gave a bribe).
However, about one third of the respondents paid for a "better" classification of goods. In the
majority of cases (65%), the monthly frequency is zero to five times.

In 2006, 83% of the interviewed people believe that they have the right to complain about the
corruption in Customs; however, Customs' feedback to complaints is weak and unconvincing.
The share of respondents who are familiar with how to notify the Customs authorities of irregular
behavior of Customs officers increased from 47% in 2002 to over 63% in 2006. This increase is
considered to result from the opening of a Customs Office hot line. Still, for the time being the
hot line can be considered as underutilized as only 5.5% of respondents claim to use it often,
3.2% a few times and 3.2% answered having used it only once. Consequently, there is room for
further cooperation and information sharing between Customs and the representatives of business
community. The majority (62%) of the interviewed people never asked for assistance in
interpreting the legislation, and 87% never used the existing hotline to report irregularities.

Among the measures recommended by the survey consultant are: "strengthening the procedures
and the mechanism of internal control; introducing the notion of conflict of interest in the Code of
Conduct for customs officers; elaborating a mechanism of solving conflict of interest situations,
as well as a mechanism of their enforcement; encouraging the business people to collaborate
more actively with Customs; publicizing the results of the investigations; bringing sound results
of the investigations."




                                                33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                  34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                  TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION
                               IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE
                                          PROJECT

The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project (TTFSE) has been defined and
described in the Project Appraisal Document ­ Report No. 25801 dated May 14, 2003 and in the
Credit Agreement No. 3783 MD, signed in Washington on June 13, 2003. The Agreement was
approved and ratified by Law No. 2197-XV as of July 19, 2003.

The Beneficiary of the Credit is Moldovan Department of Customs. The Project implementing
agency was the Bureau for Implementation of TTFSE Project (PIT). The Ministry of Finance
(MoF) - the Borrower. Through the proposed co-financing, other project beneficiaries will be
border agencies, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, AITA and trade associations. The
Director General of Customs Service of RM (CSM) was appointed as the National Project
Coordinator, who represented Moldova at the Regional Steering Committee's meetings according
to Governmental Decision No. 1122 dated August 24, 2002.

In order to meet the effectiveness conditions, the Government of Moldova, trough PIT received
from IDA an Advance for Preparation the Project, in an amount of US$100,000 from the Credit,
according to the Agreement Letter Q-310-MD, dated January 31, 2002, The purpose of the
Advance was to finance certain expenditures required for the preparation of the TTFSE project,
like: establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with appropriate staffing,
organization, systems (including a financial management system), training for the PIU, and other
resources in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The GoM met the effectiveness conditions (including the signed Contract between MDC and
UNCTAD on the implementation of ASYCUDAWorld) and the Credit became effective on
December 9, 2003.

The TTFSE Project was designed to support the efforts of developing countries in modernizing
border agencies and Customs Administrations, in particular, by aligning existing procedures with
EU standards and international requirements. There are two key development objectives: (i) To
reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and (ii) To increase revenue and compliance, and
reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

These goals are consistent with the priorities of the Government of Moldova outlined in the
Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, as well as the EU-Moldova Action
Plan, to achieve economic stability and sustainable growth, encourage private sector development
and foreign direct investment, and support public sector reform by creating an efficient
administration. The TTFSE project was aimed to help the Customs Service of Moldova lower the
price of imported goods, improve the competitiveness of Moldovan products, increase revenue
collections, address corruption, and generate greater transparency of border operations.

Progress towards these objectives is monitored by a set of performance indicators at selected pilot
sites and their total impact on users. Indicators at pilot sites include: (i) number of physical
examinations and their effectiveness; (ii) total processing time and; (iii) number of vehicles
processed within a standard processing time. The following pilot sites have been selected by the
World Bank and Moldova Customs Service based on traffic volumes, reported big delays,


                                                35

strategic importance of the site and neighboring country: Chisinau (inland terminal), Leuseni and
Cahul (border crossings to Romania), and Palanca (Tudora) (border crossing to Ukraine).

The TTFSE project consisted of six components which are described below, including the
procurement packages. There were no revisions in component objectives or basic structure or
content. However, some activities within components were modified during implementation so as
to take account of achieving final goals.

Component A "Strengthening of MDC Institutional Capacity" included technical assistance and
training to: (i) improve operations at pilot sites by collecting and refining performance indicators
data, facilitating inter-agency local project teams, cooperation and awareness, and supporting a
pilot integrated border management scheme; and (ii) re-engineer procedures by introducing
selectivity and targeting, and strengthening valuation and post-release activities. In the framework
of this component Local Project Teams (LPTs) which consisted of representatives of each of the
border agencies at four pilot sites were created in order to monitore the performance indicator data
collection and develop, analyze and interpret performance indicator data as well as to enable inter-
agency cooperation and implement solutions. They were working closely with the SECI/TTFSE
Advisory Team (STAT) and TTFSE PIT in this respect. The mechanism for collection of indicator
figures for each pilot site, was elaborated by the STAT Team, according to the TTFSE methodology
(TTFSE manual), and agreed upon with the WB Project Team, CSM and PIT. The performance
indicators were collected on a regular basis in order to achieve the projects targets; Data Collection
Forms were consolidated on a monthly basis and carefully reviewed. Recommendations provided to
the LPTs were based on observations at pilot sites, statistical analysis, and interpretation of
performance indicator data. These were delivered on two levels: (i) to top management of the
Customs Service; and (ii) to the heads of border crossings and Pilot Site Coordinators.

The common efforts led to the following improvements in performance indicators:
· Average import clearance time was reduced to 117 min. in May 2007 from a maximum of 321
    min. in September 2006 and 471 min at the start of the data collection project in March 2004;

· The number of physical examinations decreased to just over 40% compared to 99.9% reported in
    May 2006; and

· The ratio of the number of irregularities to the total number of physical examinations increased
    above 6% project end target rate to 33%.

Under this component there were performed Technical Assistance for introduction, organization and
implementation of Risk Analysis Management; implementation of Post release audit and selectivity
based Control and Management of Transit Operations.

Component B "Development of Integrated Customs Clearance and Information System (ICCIS)
included technical assistance, provision of equipment, and training to: (i) install and implement
the ASYCUDA comprehensive system for customs clearance assisted by UNCTAD; and (ii)
ensure the computerization of MDC through an integrated package including equipment, software,
acquisition and installation of telecommunication, and services.

The first step in this component was signing the contract with UNCTAD for installation and
implementation of the ASYCUDAWorld comprehensive system for customs clearance and
equipping an ASYCUDA World Training Room for the customs stuff.

During year 2004 the specialist of the Customs Department of RM together with those from


                                                   36

UNCTAD has finished the elaboration of the Moldovan prototype of the Informational System
Asycuda WORLD, which was tested at the pilot sites. There have been organized training courses
for using the new informational program, with the participation of 530 customs officers.

Since January 1, 2005 there have been introduced new customs declarations which were in line to
the EU format.

The amendments to the existing Customs-related legislation, which corresponded to the EU
regulations, were adopted on February 17, 2005 through the "Law of Republic of Moldova for
modification and additions to the Fiscal Code and article 28 out of the Law no. 1380-XIII dated
November 20, 1997 regarding customs tariff No. 5-XV". After adoption of proposed amendments
the CSM started to elaborate the new structure of Customs Service, which includes the mobile
squads, risk analysis management unit and post release audit unit. The Risk Analysis and Post
Release Audit Division was created, which includes: Post release audit and customs obligations
Unit, Risk analysis management Unit, "Mobile Squads" Unit.

The clearance system AsycudaWorld was implemented at five pilot sites (Airport, Bender,
Chishinau, ZAL ,,Expobusiness", Leuseni with the related customs posts) starting with August 1,
2005, in a comprehensive package that makes the Customs administration in Moldova one of the
most modern in Europe. It was taken the decision to implement AsycudaWORLD at other four
customs offices: Giurgiulesti, Cahul, Basarabeasca, Comrat with the related customs posts.

Starting with October 1, 2005 the Asycuda World clearance system has been fully implemented
and is operational throughout the Customs territory of Moldova.

As the result of ASYCUDA World implementation, the following objectives have been achieved:
· Automatic checking, automation and estimation of import rights;
· Continuously applying of the correct law and rates of taxation;
· Value control and description of goods;
· Selection of risk transactions for detailed checking; and
· Fast processing of the documents and minimization of manual manipulations.

General Benefits:
· Increase of tax collection, transactions costs reduction, adjustment to e-government concept;
    and
· ASYCUDA World uses all the trade international standards elaborated in accordance with
    World Customs Organization (WCO) and Informational Standardization Organization (ISO)
    conventions and recommendations which are essential for ensuring a continuous process of
    goods release.

Direct Benefits:
· Faster process of goods declaring and release;
· Ensuring a more efficient control; and
· Revenues increase.

Indirect Benefits:
· Making right and fast economic decisions;
· Optimization of the available human resources allocation;
· Simplified processing and documentation for trade community;
· Simple aggregation of regional and international data; and


                                               37

· Revenues increase from other sources.

It should be mentioned that with implementation of ASYCUDA World in Republic of Moldova,
Customs Service have benefits of an informational system which:
· Is based on the latest achievements of informational technologies in processing of all the
    customs transactions;
· Ensure trade facilities by applying WCO recommendations regarding Free Trade;
· Improve the CSM control capacity on the goods flow by risk controls and selectivity criteria;
· Increase the volume of taxes accumulations; and
· Uses the standards elaborated by the ISO, UNO, WCO, WTO; data basis are designed in
    accordance with the Data Model requirements elaborated by WCO.

An USTDA Grant was implemented for carrying out of a Telecommunication Study (including the
choice of the telecom solution, estimated costs, and technical specifications). The study was
completed and the recommendations were incorporated in the IT integrated package for CSM
Computerization.

ASYCUDAWorld software modules, documentation and training materials, and technical support
were provided free from UNCTAD. As well three groups of CSM customs experts visited the
UNCTAD Training Centre in Geneva. Unfortunately during implementation of TTFSE Project many
trained customs experts decided to leave CSM. In terms of sustainability of the Project it was decided
to outsource the maintenance of the Customs computerization system including ASYCUDA World
by creating a state enterprise, which will include skilled IT stuff who can be remunerated at market
wage levels.

In order to ensure the computerization of the MDC it was procured an integrated package including
equipment, software, acquisition and installation of telecommunication system under the procedures
of the International Competitive Bidding, according to the WB Procurement Guidelines.

Component C "Implementation of a Transit and Inland Control System" included acquisition
and operation of mobile intervention equipment to strengthen the preventive and enforcement
capacity of MDC along major transit routes and the border line. The system required the
establishment and training of a preventive and enforcement unit which will combine road patrols,
the use of intelligence, monitoring of goods entered at the border and declared inland, and
random roadside checks - initially in coordination with other law enforcement agencies. In order
to launch the procurement procedure for equipping the mobile squads they had had to receive
corresponding training. The three training courses were provided by US Government through US
Embassy, France Government through France Embassy and European Union Border Assistance
Mission. When the teams were trained the mobile squads were equipped with vehicles, tracking
hardware, namely laptops and small inspection equipment for mobile squads.

Thus the CSM Mobile Team Unit brings its contribution at tracing, preventing and repression of
the smuggling, customs frauds and other existing law violations which are in the customs bodies
competence. Taking into consideration the principle based on the risk estimation, studies and
implements the experiences of customs bodies from abroad. Also participates at elaboration and
at performing the joint operations for customs smuggling and fraud counteraction. From the
establishment of the unit there were restrained goods in amount of over 2 mln lei and additionally
budget receipts constitute 900 000 lei.




                                                 38

Component D "Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities" was foreseen to include minor
works, repairs, and vehicle inspection equipment to (i) reorganize the traffic flows and work
stations at selected border locations; and (ii) enhance Customs' control and processing capacity.
In order to achieve the project goals it was decided to give up the video surveillance equipment
due to the fact that no strategy was developed for the use of such equipment for the purposes of
trade facilitation and the remaining amount to be reallocated from this component to extend the
computerization contract from Component B.

In order to improve the conditions and the efficiency of performing physical control of the
luggage and of the transport which pass the border, it was decided to build 12 canopies at 7
customs points in the framework of this component. In this way, after the canopies were built the
checking is performed whatever the climate conditions are. This gives the opportunity to trace
unlawful traffic of drugs, fire guns, contraband goods etc.

Component E "Trade Facilitation Development" included (i) participation in the regional TTFSE
website to ensure full transparency of procedures and requirements of border agencies, and to
provide travel information; (ii) provision of conventional and distance learning training to
participants in trade, logistics, and international freight transport through AITA; (iii) distance
learning programs for road transport operators and freight forwarders; and (iv) annual survey of
trade/international transport environment. The main partners under this component were the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) and the International Association for Road Transport
(AITA).

A MOLDPRO Committee was created as a tool for the effective implementation of the Trade
Facilitation Component.

It was established a cooperation mechanism among all border and other relevant agencies in order to
provide AITA with current information to be posted on the TTFSE web / Moldova. CCI participated
in two surveys (cycles) of the economic agents regarding the problems faced by them at border
crossings between November 2002 and November 2003. During this survey between 260 and 300
economic agents were interviewed. In order to accomplish the MoldPro international trade
facilitation objectives, it was decided to create four specialized working groups, which are:
Electronic Commerce; Simplification and facilitation of border crossing procedures for
transportation means; Continuous Formation and International Cooperation.

Conventional training working group have organized a series of seminars on international trade and
transport rules that are provided by the TTFSE Project /Trade Facilitation Component. This course
includes 18 seminars planned to be organized in all regions of the Republic of Moldova during the
period of seven months. As from September this year and up to date there were 14 seminars
organized in the following regions: Ungheni, Cueni, Hînceti, Cahul, Gagauzia, Chiinu. About
300 persons had participated on the seminars and received the respective certificates. The CCI
elaborated the second course of seminars within the TF Component in the framework of TTFSE
project, which was held in the period of time September 2005 ­ March 2006.

On May 16, 2005 AITA in collaboration with CCI of RM organized the presentation of regional web
site of the TTFSE Program, www.ttfse.org.

Component F Project Implementation included the services and office equipment required to
support the implementation of the project consisting of the Project Implementation Team (PIT),
procurement and information technology advisors, external auditors, the establishment of a
financial management system, and training for the PIT staff.


                                                 39

    In terms of Project Sustainability it is important to mention the Beneficiary's eagerness to maintain
    the results and to achieve the targets established within the TTFSE Program. The Customs Service
    will continue collecting performance indicator data to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of
    new or experimental measures introduced at pilot sites. Successful procedures will be replicated
    at other border crossings.

    The MCS will provide training on border management procedures to help improve performance.
    Training abroad and mutual exchanges with other Customs administrations is an effective method for
    officers to learn and adopt better practices; in this respect the MCS is cooperating closely with the
    neighboring countries.

    As well the MCS is highly appreciating the deep involvement of the World Bank team in the
    successful implementation of the Project.

    The project performance indicators are shown below:


          Source of Actual Values                 2002         2003       2004        2005         2006
  Total MCS Revenue Collected ­
  US$ M                                          183.4        253.4      337.6        448,6       515.28

  Total MCS Cost ­ US$ M                           4.4          4.8        9.6         11.1        8.59
  Total Number of MCS Staff                       1567         1743       1851        1801         1717
  Total MCS Salaries ­ US$ M                       1.9          2.0        2.7         2.8          4.6
  Annual Number of Declarations                 180 036      191 811    215 069      351 929     256182
  Trade Volume ­ Import ­ US$ M                  1072.7       1466.6     1820.3      2375.27      1433.7
  Trade Volume ­ Export ­ US$ M                   760.8       1082.1     1275.6      1180.39      2751.3
  Total Trade Volume ­ Million USD               1833.5       2548.7     3095.9      3555.66      4185.0



                                           Performance Indicators
                                                 2002         2003       2004         2005         2006
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff                117.09        145.26     178.64       249.08       300.11
Total Customs Cost/Revenue Collected             2.41         1.90       2.84         2.47          1.67
Salaries/Revenue Collected                       1.05         0.80        0.8         0.62          0.89
Trade Volume/Staff (USD)                      1 170 101 1 462 285 1 637 176 1 974 269            2 437 391
Declarations/Staff                             114.10        110.05     113.73       195.41       149.20
Cost Per Declaration                              19           18         30          31.54        33.53




                                                      40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not available.




                                    41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office-Reports, and Implementation Status Reports
  2. Quarterly Reports prepared by Borrower
  3. STAT Monthly Reports
  4. STAT Final Report (April 2007)
  5. Moldova Telecommunications Study ­ Final Report (2002)
  6. Trade Facilitation Assessment (2002)
  7. Analytical Report Exploring the Perceptions and Experiences with the Customs Control,
     Services, and Border Officers in 2002-2006
  8. Project Appraisal Document for the Republic of Moldova for the TTFSE, dated May 14,
     2003 (Report No. 25801)
  9. Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Moldova and the International
     Development Association dated June 13, 2003
  10. Presentations - Project Launching Workshop, September 2003
  11. ASYCUDA Presentation, UNCTAD, October 2006
  12. Poverty Reduction Support Credit
  13. TACIS Regional Action Plan 2003, TACIS 2003,
      http://www.delmda.ec.europa.eu/eu_and_moldova/3_en.html




                                           42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 31814R1
                                                                          15°
GERMANY                                                                                    CZECH REP.                                          20°                                                              25°             From Germany                                    30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Germany
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                SLOVAK REP.                                                                                  Exports: Imports:              $58 $159                                           TRADE AND TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $41 $89                    10/5 10/5         UKRAINE                    FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
                                                                                                                                                                                   To France           From France            60/10 60/10                  $475 $450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $1,400 $1,600                                                                                 EUROPE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                            Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                                               $722 $799                                                           Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                                               90/6 90/6                                                             $245 $133                                            MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
                                                              AUSTRIA                                                                                                                        $1,100 $1,600                                                          60/10 60/10
                                                                                                                                               Exports: Imports:                                                             Imports:                              $1,300 $650
                                                                                                                                                $1,627 $1,923                                                                $116
                                                                                                                                                  76/6 76/6                                                                                                          To / From
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            From
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10/3                                                                              IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (2002):
                                                  Exports: Imports:                                                                               $920 $1,270                                                                $350                              Russian Federation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Russian Federation
                                                       $132 $325                                                                                                                                                                                       MOLDOVA                                               Exports (US$, Millions)                                             Imports (US$, Millions)
                                                       78/6 79/7                                                                 HUNGARY                                                                                               Exports:
                                                   $1,730 $2,000                                                                                                                                                                                                $400                                                                               Exports: Imports:
                 Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                     $46                                                                                                           $211 $300
                    $631 $679                                                       Imports:                                                                                                                                           85/15                                                                                                      192/24 192/24

                    53/5 53/5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $3,800 $3,800
                                                                                     $530                                                                                                                                              $1,700
                 $1,400 $1,500                                                       19/5                                                                                                                                                                                                          Transport Time (between capital cities)*/                               Transport Time (between capital cities)*/
                                                       SLOVENIA                      $630                     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                            Waiting Time @ Border Crossing Points (Hours)**              Transport          Waiting Time @ Border Crossing Points (Hours)**
                                                                                                                $168 $491                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Costs
                                                                                                               60/10 60/10                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (US$)**
                                                                                                              $1,300 $1,700
                                                                 Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                          ROMANIA
                                                                   $481 $629                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Color of value reflects change in import/export situation since 1999:
                                                                    7/2 11/3                  $4,344                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $300       Worsening situation
                                                                   $300 $400                                                                                                      To USA
                                                                                                                                                                                            Exports:               $1,569                                                                                                                  192/24 Improving situation

                                                                                                                      Exports:            Exports: Imports:                                  $380                                              Imports:                                                                                     $3,800 No change in situation
45°                                                                                           CROATIA                                                                                                                                                    From Russian Federation
                                                                                                                       $498                 $256 $252                                                                                          $1,120
                                                                                                                                           55/10 65/10
          Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Thickness of import/export line reflects import/export amount;
                                                                                                                                          $1,900 $1,900
             $991 $1,318                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Color of import/export line reflects change in import/export situation since 1999:
                                                                             Exports: Imports:
             42/6 45/5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Worsening situation
                                                                                  $82 $545                                                                                                                                                                                           45°
          $1,000 $1,100                                                                                                                                                                        Exports: Imports:
                                                                                  9/1 12/2                                             SERBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                           Improving situation
                                                                                                                                                                                               $2,319 $2,443
                                                                                $630 $860                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No change in situation

                                                         Exports: Imports:                                 $1,114                                                                                 68/8 68/8                                      Exports:
                                                               $66 $341                                                                                                                        $1,100 $1,900                                      $627
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *Milan is used for Italy.
                                                              14/2 16/3                                                                                                                                                                           17/7                                                                      **Average time and costs estimated based on surveys and estimates.

  SAN MARINO                                                 $800 $1,000                                                                                                                                                                          $800
                                                                                              BOSNIA AND
                                                                                            HERZEGOVINA                                                                                    Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                                             $436 $905                                                                                                               MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
                                                                                                                                                                                            88/18 88/18
                                                                                                                                                          $605                              $2,000 $1,550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GDP per capita (US$)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Black                                                                                                    $4,000


                                                                                                                                           Exports: Imports:                                                                                                               Sea
                                    Exports: Imports:                                                               Exports: Imports:        $333 $190
                                       $216 $390                                                                      $188 $304              14/4 14/4                   Exports: Imports:                                                      Imports:                                                                                                                           $2,000
                                       51/8 51/8                                                                      11/2 14/3              $500 $600                      $686 $551                                                           $1,588
                                                                                                                                                                                                        BULGARIA                                         From Russian Federation
                                     $1,140 $1,590                                                                    $600 $600                                            56/16 56/16
                                                                                                                                                                          $1,700 $1,800                                                                                                                                                                                            $1,000
                                                      Exports: Imports:         Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $500
                                                          $150 $255
       ITALY                                                                       $23 $72                                                                                                                    $1,566                   Exports:
                                                          58/8 56/8                              MONTENEGRO
                                                                                144/24 144/24                                                                                                                                           $492
                                                      $1,150 $1,600              $2,000 $2,500                                                                                                                                          18/3                                                                 Color of circle, and GDP Per Capita value, reflects change in GDP situation since 1999:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $300
                                                                                                                                                              FYR                                                                                                                                                               $500                 Worsening situation

                                                                                                                                                     MACEDONIA                                                                                                                                                                  $500                 Improving situation

                                                                                                       Adriatic Sea                                                                            Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                $500                 No change in situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                 $376 $318
                                                                                               Imports:                                                         $1,704                           19/3 19/3                                                                                                             Real                 Exports
                                                                                                $111                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Import
                                                                                                         Exports: Imports:   ALBANIA                                         Exports:            $500 $1,100                                                                                                                GDP                                                       GDP
                                                                                                           $165 $338                                                           $84                                                                                                                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    US$               (FOB)             (CIF)              per
                                                                                                         120/24 120/24                $970                                     15/2                                                                                                                                                      billion           in                in                Capita
                                                                                                          $1,450 $2,500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       US$               US$
                                                                                                                                                                    Imports:   $600                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                                     $200                                                                                                                                                                                         billion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2002                                                                           billion           US$

                                                                                                                                                                     34/10
40°                                                                                                                                                                  $800                                                                                                                             ALBANIA*                                          3.8                  0.3             0.9           970

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA*                           4.2                  0.6             2.3         1,114
                                                                                                                                            Exports: Imports:                                            Imports:                                                                     40°
                                                                                                                                                $37 $213                                                                                                                                              BULGARIA                                         12.4                  4.8             6.5         1,566
                                                                                                                                                                                                          $50
                                                                                                                                             60/24 96/24                                                 120/48                                                                                       CROATIA                                            19                  4.4             7.9         4,344
                                                                                                                                             $1,100 $1,100                                               $1,900
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FYR MACEDONIA                                     3.7                  1.3             2.0         1,704
                                                                                          0              100              200                                                                        Aegean                                                                                           ROMANIA                                          35.2                10.3            13.0          1,569
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                      KILOMETERS                                         GREECE                                                                                                      TURKEY                           SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                             9.0                  1.7             3.7           865
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MOLDOVA**                                         1.5                  0.5             0.9           400
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                  20°                                                                                                                                                                   *1999 data.        **2001 data.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUGUST 2007

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 31815R1

                      Salzburg
                                                              15°                           Bratislava                          20°                                                                  25° Chernivtsi                                                                    30°
                                                                                                                                    Miskolc
                                    A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yuzhnoukrayinsk
                                                                                                                                            Nyíregyháza                                                               W  Siret
                                                                                                                                                                         Satu Mare                                                           M    Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                Gyor
                                                                                                   "                                                                                                                                                                         U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                      Budapest                Debrecen                             Baia                                   Suceava                O
                                                                                                                                                                                   Mare
        Lienz                                                     Graz                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                               Székesfehérvár                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                            H U N G A R Y                                    Oradea                                                                                          Chisinau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Iasi             O
                                      Villach                                                      V                                                                                                                                                                 Chisinau
                                                                                                                             Kecskemét
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Piatra-                              Leuseni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V      Tighina
                                                            Maribor                                              V   X      IV                                                                                      Neamt¸
                                  SLOVENIA                                                                                                                            Cluj-Napoca                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bacau                                          Palanca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Odessa
                           Ljubljana                                   Macelj                                                                                                                      Targu Mures

                                                                                                      Pécs               Szeged                                                                                                                IX
                                                                        Zagreb                                                                        Arad                                                                                               Cahul
                  Trieste                            Jankomir                                                                 Horgos                                                 R O M A N I A
    Venice                                                                 X

                                       Rijeka                     Karlovac  CROATIA                    Osijek                                                                        Sibiu                                      Focsani
45°                                                      Maljevac W           Gradiska         Slavonski                                                                                                        Brasov
                                                                                               Brod
                                                                               WNovi                  Samac
                                                                                                 W                           Novi Sad                                                      IV

                   Pula                                                         Grad                  W
                                                                                         Bosanska              Zupanja                                        IV                                                                             Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

                                                                   C  Izacic             Gradiska                                                                                   Ramnicu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Buzau                                                                                             45°
                                                                      Bihac                                C  W      Batrovci
                                                                                Banja    Banja                                                                                       Valcea
                                                                                 Luka    Luka      Orasje GunjaC
                                                                                                    Doboj            Raca                                         Drobeta-
                                                                                                                                                                    Turnu                             Pitesti Ploiesti
                                                                                                            Tuzla          Belgrade                                Severin
                   A                                                            BOSNIA AND
   SAN                                                                                      Travni                                                                                                                        Bucharest
   MARINO                 d                                                       Jajce
                              r                                              HERZEGOVINA                                            SERBIA                                   Craiova
                                 i                                                                                                                                                                                                              Constanta    C  Constanta
                                     a                                          D Kamensko                                                                      Vidin                                        Giurgiu
                                                                                                  V                                                                   W
                                          t                                                             Sarajevo                                                                                                        Rousse
                                              i                            Split                                                                                                                                                                                                         B l a c k
                                                                                                 Konjic                                                                                         VII                 C Rousse
                                                 c                                          Grude                                                        X                                                         IX                      Dobrich                                           S e a
  I T A L Y                                                                     Gorica D      Mostar                                                                                        Pleven
                                                                                                                                                           Nis             IV

                                                                                          D Doljani
   Tern                                                                                                  MONTE-                                                   X                                                                                    Varna


                            Pescara                              S                                                                                                                        B U L G A R I A
                                                                                                                                                            Gradina
                                                                     e                                    NEGRO
                                                                         a             Dubrovnik                                                                                                     Plovdiv               Sliven
                                                                                                          Podgorica                             Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                     Sofia                                                          VIII      W  Bourgas
                                                                                        Debeli Breg                                                              Pernik
Rome                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bourgas
      SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION                                                                                                               Presevo        Deve                                    Stara Zagora

    TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                                                                                                    Bair  C  Gyueshevo
                                                                                                                     Shkodër      C                    C      C
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                                                                  Morina       Tetovo           Tabanovce
                                                                                                                                    Kumanovo        Skopje
         EUROPE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                        Kapitan
                                                         Foggia                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                    Gostivar          FYR                       Cotse                                            Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                               Delchev                       Andreevo

                                                                                                           Durres                   VIII
              PROJECT*:                                                                                               Tirana               MACEDONIA                           Kulata
                                                                            Bari                             Durrës        Tirana                                            W                                                                 IV
          W                                                                                                                           Kafasan
             Naples
               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                               C  Struga        Prilep
          D                                                                                                                                     X
               DESIGN PROJECT                                                                                                    W                                                                                                                                Istanbul
                                                                                                                   Elbasan  Qafe        Ohrid                                                                                                                                     Kadiköy
               PILOT BORDER STATIONS                                                                                       Thane                Bitola
                                                                                                                                                                          IV                                                                                                                                  Sakarya

               PILOT INLAND TERMINALS                                                                              ALBANIA                                        X

          C    COMBINED PILOT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                  Taranto                                      Korçë                                                                                                                                                           Golcük
                                                                                                                                                                       Thessaloniki
40°       II  PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                 Lecce         Vlorë                                                                                                                                                                         T U R K E Y
              MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                   Ersekë                                                                                                                                                 Bursa

    Mediterranean
              MAJOR RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40°

              MAIN CITIES                                                                                                                G R E E C E
              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                   Sarandë
             Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0      50      100     150     200                                                                                                                               Balikesir     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                 15°                                                                                    20°                                     Larisa                                 25°                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30°
              *Subject to change as other projects are finalized.                           KILOMETERS                                       Trikala                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAY 2007

