Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4519-BF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Eighth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 10, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4519-BF 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated October 10, 2008, entered into between BURKINA FASO 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to sixty-one million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 61,5
00,000)
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association 
to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
03 BP 7050 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
SEGEGOUV 
 5555 
  (226) 
50-31-27-15 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By /s/ Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Ishac Diwan 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
To improve the investment climate and promote exports 
(a) 
The Recipient has further revised its producer pricing mechanism for cotton to better 
align it with the international market price and SOFITEX has started to reduce its 
operating costs in 2007 and has adopted and started implementing a restructuring plan 
aimed at further reducing its operating costs in 2008. 
(b) 
The Recipient has adopted a strategy and calendar for enhanced private sector 
participation in SOFITEX’s equity and an independent financial and operational audit of 
SOFITEX for 2004-2007 has been launched. 
(c) 
The Recipient has launched a broad stakeholders’ consultation process toward the 
adoption of an action plan for the implementation of the EITI. 
(d) 
The Recipient has adopted a regulation for land titling issuance and has implemented said 
legislation through the establishment of a one-stop shop for land titling and a one-stop 
shop for construction permits. 
(e) 
The Recipient has adopted labor regulations to enhance the flexibility in the hours and 
schedules worked and to remove the limitation in the renewal of term contracts in certain 
sectors including mining. 
(f) 
The Recipient has submitted to Parliament a draft law on the overall regulation of the 
Recipient’s electricity supply. 
To improve access to decentralized basic services  
(g) 
The Recipient has transferred the facilities for pre-scholar and primary education to forty-
nine (49) urban municipalities and has transferred to this effect school funds to twenty-
two (22) provinces and their urban municipalities through a credit delegation. 
(h) 
The Recipient has transferred the ownership of the real estate assets of health facilities to 
forty-nine (49) urban municipalities and has strengthened the human resource planning, 
training and management functions in the Recipient’s Ministry of Health as evidenced by 
the adoption of a Human Resources Hiring Plan and Health Personnel Training Plan, and 
the operationalization of the human resources software system. 
Page  7
6
(i) 
The Recipient has: (A) implemented a strategy for the maintenance of new water points 
by the General Directorate of Water Resources 
of
the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Agriculture, Water and Fisheries (
Ministère de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des 
Ressources Halieutiques
)
and (B) ensured that water piped systems have been transferred 
to twenty-five (25) rural communes and at least two (2) contracts have been signed 
between rural communes and professional operators to manage water piped systems.  
Furthermore, the Recipient has continued to implement the
 
ONEA hygiene and sanitation 
promotion program in four (4) secondary cities in accordance with said program. 
(j) 
The Recipient has strengthened the deconcentration of its budget management through: 
(i) the introduction of the accounting module of the Consolidated Accounting for Local 
Governments (
Comptes Intégrés des Collectivités Locales
 - CICL) software in at least 
twenty (20) urban communes and the adoption of a calendar for the development and 
deployment of CICL’s administrative management module; and (ii) the establishment of 
several branch offices of the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance (three (3) 
new services in DGB, ten (10) new services in DGTCP, two (2) new services in DCCF, 
and seven (7) new services in DGI). 
To promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources 
(k) 
The Recipient has enhanced effectiveness in public spending and strengthened 
 
institutional capacities of its ministries responsible for infrastructures and environment, 
respectively, by ensuring that the administrative structures in charge of developing 
program budgets are effectively working in the ministries responsible for infrastructure 
and environment, respectively, and that baseline data are collected to improve 
predictability in budget allocation (including for road maintenance). 
(l) 
The Recipient has made progress in the ongoing procurement reform through: (i) the 
production of baseline data for the monitoring and evaluation of procurement systems; 
and (ii) the establishment of procurement units in at least two line ministries and two 
regional level entities. 
(m) 
The Recipient has strengthened its independent audit institution for public finance 
through: (i) the adoption of a decree on the review of small communes' records and 
accounts by a regional accountant (
trésorier
); and (ii) the decision to execute the Court of 
Accounts’ (
Cour des Comptes
)
budget through related arrangements similar to those of 
the Faso Ombudsman or the High Council for Communication. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  8
7
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
61,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
61,500,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 1 and December 1: 
 
commencing December 1, 2018 to and including 
June 1, 2028 
1% 
commencing December 1, 2028 to and including 
June 1, 2048 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“DCCF” means the Recipient’s Central Directorate for Financial Control (
Direction 
Centrale du Contrôle Financier
)
established within its Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
2. 
“DGB” means the Recipient’s General Directorate for Budget (
Direction Générale du 
Budget
)
established within its Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
3. 
“DGI” means the Recipient’s General Directorate for Taxes (
Direction Générale des 
Impôts
)
established within its Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
4. 
“DGTCP” means the Recipient’s General Directorate for Treasury and Public 
Accounting (
Direction Générale du Trésor et de la Comptabilité Publique
)
established 
within its Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
5. 
“EITI” means the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a coalition of 
governments, companies, civil society groups, investors and international organizations 
supporting improved governance in resource-rich countries. 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Page  11
10
 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
Page  12
11
8. 
“ONEA” means the Office National des Eaux et de l’Assainissement, the Recipient’s 
national water utility. 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated August 12, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
11. “SOFITEX” 
means 
Société Burkinabè des Fibres Textiles
 (SOFITEX) a company 
(
société anonyme
)
established in accordance with the laws of the Recipient. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  13
12
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  14
13
(c) The 
te
rm “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
 
