        CONFORMED COPY                             k      0
                            SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 56 KE




Special Action Credit Agreement
             (Structeral Adjustment Credit)


                         between


                     REPUBLIC OF KENYA


                            and



           INTENATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
      as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
           etablished with funds contributed by
   the HEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAl ECONOMIC COHNUNITY




             Dated                 / C    1980
                                 SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT ACREEMENT 56        E

                    SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated      C,2 -    / 0            . 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account estab-
lished with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN
ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is undertaking a comprehensive
economic program for the short-term stabilization, medium-term
recovery and long-term development of the Borrower's economy;

     (3) the Borrower intends, inter alia, to implement, as part
of its economic program, a program of economic measures summarized
in the letter of intent dated January 2, 1980, addressed to the
Administrator by the Borrower's Vice President and Minister
responsible for Finance:

     (C) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the Inter-
national Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;

     (D) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account
in achieving the aforementioned objectives by providing part of
the foreign exchange required to finance essential imports of raw
materials, intermediate goods and capital equipment as provided in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the Administrator has determined
that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of
the Agreement of May 2, 1978 referred to above;

     (E)  the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrover and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement),    IDA is
agreeing   to   provide   such   assistance   in   an   agEregate   principal
amount equivalent to fifty-five million dollars ($55,000,000)
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit) subject to the terms and
conditions set forth In the Development Credit Agreement; and
                                   -2-


     WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed1 on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

     W   THEREFORE   the parties   hereto   hereby agree as   follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                 General Conditions; Definitions

     Bection 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):

     (a)   the term "Aseociation", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;

     (b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;

     (c)  Sectione 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and

     (d)  in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the folloving
additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Kember States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, I.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France,   Ireland,       Italy,     Luxembourg,    The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom,

      (b) "Administrator" means the International   Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;

     (c)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit       Agreements        of IDA,    dated March 15,     1974,   as
made applicable to such agreement, all                agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and                 all  schedules to the Loan
Agreement;

     (d)    "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification,     1963 Revision, published in Commodity
Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revised, Statistical   Papers, Series M. No. 38 (ST/STAT/Ser. M/38)
(1963);

     (e)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Kenya estab-
lished and operating pursuant to the Central Bank of Kenya Act,
Cap. 491 of the Laws of Kenya;
     (f)  -Project Account" means the account established pursant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement

     (g)   "Letter of No Objection Priviieges"     means the set
of administrative and contractual provisions whereby some private
enterprises have the right to object to the import of products
competitive with their respective production;

        (h)   "Shillings" and "Kah" mean the currency of the Borrower;
and

        (i)   "Fiscal   Year"   and   "FY"    mean the   Borrower's     fiscal year
beginning July 1 and ending June 30 in each year.

                                      ARTICLE II

                           The Special Action Credit

        Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower    on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement   set   forth or   referred    to,     the   following   currency
amounts:

     seventeen million
     one hundred forty-
     nine thousand           Belgian francs                (BF1l7,149,000);
     two million one
     hundred thirty-four
     thousand                Danish kroner                  (DK2,134,000);

     eight million two
     hundred forty-three
     thousand                Deutsche marks                  (DM8,243,000);

     eight million seven
     hundred fourteen
     thousand                French francs                   (V18,714,000);

     nineteen thousand       Irish pounds                      (IrM1,000);

     one billion eleven
     millin one hundred
     eighty thousand         Italian lire               (ItL1,011,190,000);
     five hundred thirty-
     nine thousand        Luxembourg francs                    (LF539,000);

     two million two
     hundred seventy-
     nine thousand           Netherlands guilders          (Dfl 2,279,000);

     and
     two million one hun-
     dred one thousand
     four hundred            Pounds   sterling                (E2,101,400).

     Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or. if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
imported goods provided for in such Schedule and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
                                        -5-


     (b)  Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of
the Member States and (B) any developing country, other than the
Borrower, which is a member of the International       Development
Association and could be the recipient of a special action credit,
as determined by the Administrator.


     (c)    Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in                the
respective currencies in which the expenditures               to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at  the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.


      Section    2.03.   Except    as   the    Administrator    shall     otherwise
agree, contracts for goods costing more than $5,000,000 equivalent
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
shall be procured on the basis of procedures that include broad
international tendering amongst suppliers from the countries
referred to in   Section 2.02 (b)  of this Agreement and contract
award to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Before requesting
a withdrawal of proceeds of the Special Action Credit on account
of any such contract,   the Borrower shall cause the Administrator
 to be furnished with a brief report, in form and substance satis-
factory   to the Administrator, on the procedures followed in
procuring such contract.


      Section    2.04.   The Closing Date shall be           September 30. 1980,
or such later      date as the Administrator shall  establish.                   The
Administrator     shall promptly notify the Borrower of such                  later
date.


     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1Z) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if   any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall   be payable in the currency
of the United States of America,              or in   another currency selected
by   the Administrator     in     accordance    with   the   provisions    of para-
graph (b)       of this Section,        after their      conversion into such
currency    on the basis    of    exchange rates determined        in   accordance
with the    provisions     of Section 4.05 of          the General Conditions.
                                                    -6-


     (b)   If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected Is not freely convertible or
freely eEchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its  operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice,       service    charges       shall    be    payable     in   such other        currency.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semisanually
on May I and November 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable an each May 1 and November 1 commencing Nay 1, 1990,
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1. 1999. to be one-half of one per
cent (112 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter  to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/21) of such
principal amount.

       (b)      Each    of the    installments             payable     pursuant    to    paragraph
(a)    of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total   amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a)   of this Section,   unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date    for the purpose of avoiding                       the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.

       (c)      If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the    Administrator           shall    have        purchased    with     one     or    more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the                               Administrator        for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency                             or currencies        so used.

        (d)     The Administrator           will, at the request of the Borrower
and    on     such     terms    and    conditions           as   the Administrator           shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under thie Agree-
ment upon payment by the                Borrower of sufficient              funds therefor in
                                 -7-


a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator  shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall  be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in    the currency or currencies required.


     Section 2.08. The Borrower's Central Bank is designated as
representative  of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section   2,02 of this Agreement       and Article V of the General
Conditions.

                             ARTICLE III

                      Exscution of the Project

     Section 3.01.   (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this  Agreement, or cause the Project to
be carried out,   with due diligence and efficiency and in     con-
formity with appropriate financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the facilities,     services
and other resources required for the purpose.


         (b) Without limitation    or restriction  to    the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take all     such action including    the expeditious
granting of import licenses as shall be necessary       or convenient to
facilitate    the timely importation of the goods to     be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.


     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the Project
Account) with the Central Bank and shall, upon each withdrawal
from the Credit Account,   deposit in  said account in   accordance
with its usual financial procedures the equivalent in Shillings of
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account (such
equivalent to be determined as of the respective date of such
withdrawal).   The amounts so deposited in    the Project Account
shall be used exclusively to finance economic development expendi-
tures of the Borrower.

     Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all   goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.
                                    B-
                                    B



     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank:
(i)  to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project, to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (JU) to enable the Adminis-
trator's accredited representatives to examine any relevant
records and documents in connection with the goods financed out of
the proceeds 9f the Special Action Credit; and (Iii)    furnish to
the Administrator at regular intervals all such Information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and
the goods financed out of such proceeds and their procurement.

      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the      Administrator shall,
from time to time, at the request of either      party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out         the economic program
referred to in paragraphs (A) and (3) of         the Preamble to this
Agreement.

     (b)  The first     such exchange of views shall take place not
later than April 30,    1980.

     (c)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator a report
containing such information as the Administrator shall reasonably
request, prior to and for the purpose of each such exchange of
views.

      Section 3.06. In order to assist the Borrower in implementing
a system of export insurance and financing, the Borrower shall
employ consultants not later than March 1, 1980, whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrator.

     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Administrator

     Section 4.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
                                         9 -


pursuant    to paragraph    (h)   thereof,       namely,     that subject    to para-
graph (b) of this Section:

            (i)   the   right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                  of the     IDA Credit          shall      have   been suspended,
                  cancelled or terminated                  in  whole or     in part,
                  pursuant to the terms of                 the agreement    providing
                  therefor, or


           (ii)   the   IDA Credit      shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

     (6)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if:   (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure    of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrover
under this  Agreement.


     Section 4.02.   For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions,  the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fled in paragraph (a) (ii)        of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                                    ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

       Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional    condition to the effectiveness     of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all     conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.

       Section 5.02.       The date          e             9, y    'Fe      is   hereby
specified     for the purposes     of   Section     12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.

       Section 5.03. The provisions of Article III of this Agree-
ment   shall  cease and determine on the date on which the Special
                                -   10 -



Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date tia years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.

                              ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          The Treasury
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          kenys

          Cable address:                       Telex:

               FINANCE                             22003
               Nairobi

     For the Administrator:

          Administrator of the Special Action Account
           (International Development Association)
          1818 R Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable addresa:                       Telex:

               INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
               Washington. D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
                                                    64145 (WI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized. have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United   States of America,   as of   the day and
year first above written.


                  Republic of Kenya

                  Is/ Authorized Representative




                    INTERNATTONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    as AIH4NISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
                    established with funds contributed by
                    the MENBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECON(HIC
                    C0*MUNITY International Development Association

                               Is/ Acting Regional Vice President
                    By         Eastern Africa
                                     -   12 -


                                SCHEDULE 1

         Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Special Action Credit

1.   The items that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Special Action Credit shall be those imported items included
in SIXC Divisions 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8, for which approved import
licenses have been returned              to the Central         Bank as specified
below

        A.   All items   included    in SITC Division 2 (Crude materials
             and   Inedible materials, except fuels) may be financed
             out   of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.

        B.   Items   included   in       SITC   Divisions       5, 6 and   7,   rea-
             pectively, may be financed out of the proceeds of the
             Special Action Credit except, however, for the following
             items   which may not be       financed     out of the     proceeds of
             the Special Action Credit:

SITC CODE                                        DESCRIPTION OF ITMS
Division 5:                                            Chemical

        553.000                                  Perfumery and cosmetics,
                                                    dentifrices and other
                                                    toilet  preparations
                                                     (except soaps)
        554.101                                  Soap, toilet
        554.102                                  Sap, other
        571.400                                  Hunting and sporting
                                                    ammunition

                                                   Manufactured goods
Division 6:                                      clas s   d by material

        613.000                                  Fur skins. tanned or
                                                    dressed
        632.710                                  Picture and mirror frames
                                                    of wood
        632.720                                  Household utensils of
                                                    wood
        632.731                                  Articles of personal
                                                    adornment of wood
        651.1h0                                  Silk yarn put up for
                                                       retail    sale
                - 13 -


                           Manufactured goods
Division 6:              classified by material


     651.250             Yarn of wool or animal
                            hair put up for
                             retail sale
     651.420             Cotton yarn and thread
                             put up for retail sale
     651.520             Flax or ramle yarn put up
                             for retail sale
     651.630             Yarn of continuous synthetic
                             fibers put up for retail
                             sale
     651.650             Yarn of discontinuous or
                             Waste synthetic fibers
                             put up for retail sale
     651.730             Yarn of continuous
                             regenerated fibers put
                             up for retail sale
     651.750             Tarn of discontinuous or
                             waste regenerated fibers
                             put up for retail sale
     653.110             Silk fabrics, woven
     654.000             Tulle, lace, embroidery,
                              ribbons, triumings, and
                              other small ware
     656.600              Blankets and travelling rugs
     656.930              Linens and other furnishing
                              articles of textile
                              fabrics, bed sheets, bed-
                              spreads, bed covers and
                              tablecloths
      656.940             Towels
      656.950             Curtains, textile
      656_980             Linens and other furnishing
                              articles of textile
                              fabrics, n.e.c.
      657-000             Floor coverings, tapestries,
                              etc.
      665.200             Glass tableware and other
                              articles of glass for
                              household, hotel and
                               restaurant use
      666.000              Pottery
                             -   14 -



                                           Manufactured goods
Division 6:                              classified by material

     667.000                             Pearls and precious and
                                            semi-precious   stones,
                                           worked or unworked
     696.000                             Cutlery
     697,000                             Household equipment of
                                            base metals

                                        Machinery and Transport
Division 7:                                   Equipment

     711.411                            Internal combustion engines
                                           for aircraft
     711.4ZZ                            Jets and gas turbines for
                                           aircraft
     724.100                            Television broadcast
                                            receivers, whether or
                                           not combined with sound
                                           recorders or reproducers
                                           or radios
     724.200                            Radio broadcast receivers,
                                           whether or not combined
                                           with sound recorders or
                                           reproducers
     725.000                            Domestic electrical equip-
                                           ment
     732.100                            Passenger motor cars (other
                                            than buses or special
                                           vehicles) whether or
                                           not assembled
     732.910                            Motorcycles, auto-cycles,
                                            etc. and side cars
     734.000                            Aircraft
     735.000                            Ships and boats
     C-   With respect to items included in SITC Division 8, only
          the following Items may be financed out of the proceeds
          of the Special Action Credit:
 SITC CODE                                   DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS

                                          Miscellaneous  manufactured
Division 8:                                       articles

     561.100                             Optical elements
                                               Niscellanecus manufactured
Division 8:                                             articles

        861.330                               Microscopes and diffraction
                                                  apparatus, electron and
                                                  proton
        861.340                                Compound optical microacopes
        861.390                                Optical appliances and
                                                  inatruments, n.e.s.
        861.700                                Medical instruments, n.e.8.
        861.800                                Meters and counters,            non-
                                                  electric
        861.900                                Measuring, controlling and
                                                  scientific instruments,
                                                  n.S.S.

        895.000                                Office and stationery sup-
                                                  plies, n.as.
        899.600                                Orthopedic appliances

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of                paragraph         I   above,    no
withdrawels shall be made in respect of:

        (a)     expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods      or   services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

        (b)     payments   made   for   expenditures       prior   to       January   1,
1980;

     (c)  expenditures for goods to be aspplied under a contract
which another official export financing institution or any inter-
national development institution shall have financed or agreed to
finance;

     (d)  payments for taxes levied by. or in    the territory
of, the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; and

     (e)  expenditures for goods           procured   under invoices           for less
than Kah 20,000 equivalent.
                              -   16   -



                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The Project  consists  of certain   measures to be taken by
the Borrower in carrying out its   economic program referred to in
paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement, includ-
ing the measures described in       Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement
and a program of importation of essential goods.
                               - 17 -


                             SCHEDULE 3
     In reviewing the progress achieved by the Borrover in the
carrying out of the economic program referred to in paragraphs (A)
and (U) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower and the
Administrator shall focus in particular on:

     (1)   The adequacy of the Forward        Budget   for     the Fiscal
           Years 1980/81 to 1982183;

     (2)   Improvements in debt management, including:

           (a)   the provision of technical assistance to and the
                 strengthening of staff of the Treasury dealing
                 with external debt; and

           (b)   the establishment of    a record of private external
                 debt;

     (3)   Implementation of measures to phase out Letters of
           No Objection Privileges, including enforcement of the
           Borrover's directive providing that no new Letters of No
           Objection Privileges shall be granted, and that existing
           Letters of No Objection Privileges shall not be renewed
           or extended but shall to the extent permitted be termi-
           nated;

     (4)   The Borrower's measures      to ensure   adequate    incentives
           for export, including:

           (a)   a plan of measures, to be implemented during the
                 Borrower's Fiscal Year 1980/81, for the adminis-
                 trative simplification of its   existing export
                 compensation system;

           (h)   progress made in the design of an export insurance
                 and financing system, which is expected to be
                 introduced by September 1980;

     (5)   The introduction or retention of an appropriate           level
           and structure of interest rates in Kenya; and

     (6)   Progress achieved in carrying out the ongoing study
           aimed at rationalization of Kenya's trade regime.
