                CONFORMEDCOPY                        o
                                     CREDIT NMBER 999 KB




Development Credit Agreement
        (Structural Adjustment Credit)



                    between


               REPUBLIC OF KENYA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVEIHENT ASSOCIATION




     Dated                          .01980
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 999 KE



                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter   called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called the Asso-
elation)

     WHEREAS (A) The Borrower is undertaking a comprehensive
economic program for the short-term stabilization, mediLr-tern
recovery and long-term development of the borrower's economy;

     (0)    The Borrower intends, inter ala, to implement, as part
of its economic program, a program of economic measures summarized
in the letter   of intent dated January 2, 1980, addressed to the
Association by the Borrower's Vice President and Minister respon-
sible for Finance;

     (C)  The Borrower has requested the Association's assistance
in achieving the aforementioned objectives by providing part of
the foreign exchange required to finance essential imports of raw
materials, intermediate goods and capital equipment as specified
in Schedule I to this Agreement;

       (D)   The Borrower has requested the Association as Admints-
trator     of the Special Action Account established    with funds
contributed by the Member States of the European Economic Com-
munity to provide similar financial assistance;

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

     NOW THEREFORE    the   parties   hereto hereby agree as   follows:

                                ARTICLE I

                     General Conditions;    Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties     to this  Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if   they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicabte to nevelopment Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
                                   -2-


     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1963 Revision, published in Commodity
Indezes for the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, Nu. 38 (ST/STAT/Ser. M/3S)
(1563);

     (b)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Enya estah-
11shed and operating pursuant to the Central Bank of Kenya Act,
Cap. 491 of the Laws of Kenya:

     (c)  "Project Account" means the account established pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;

     (d)  "Letter of No Objection Privileges" means the set of
administrative and contractual provisions whereby some private
enterprises have the right to object to the import of products
competitive with their respective production;

     (e)   "Shillings- and "tsh"    mean the currency of the Borrower;

     (f)  "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's fiscal year
beginning July 1 and ending June 30 in each year; and

     (g)   "Special Action Credit Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the Member States of the European Economic Com-
munity, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions as made applicable to
such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Special Action
Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Special Action Credit
Agreement.

                              ARTICLE 11

                              The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
an the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to ftft--five million dollars ($55,000,000).

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of imported
goods provided for in such schedule and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit,

      Section 2.03. Fxcept as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods costing more than $5,000,000 equivalent
 to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall he procured
on the basis of procedures that include broad international
 tendering amongst suppliers from the Association's member
countries and Switzerland and contract award to the lowest eval-
uated rusponsive bidder. Before requesting a withdrawal of pro-
ceeds of the Credit on account of any such contract, the Borrower
 shall cause the Association to be furnished with a brief report,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the
 procedures followed in procuring such contract.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30. 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Assoclation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(314 of i%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

    Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April I and October 1 In each year.

     Section 2.07.   The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installements payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1990, and ending Octo-
ber 1, 2029, each installment to and Including the installment
payable on October 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such princtpal amount.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.

     Section 2.09. The Borrower's Central Bank is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2,02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.

                           ARTICLE III

                    Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01, (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or cause the Project
to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial and administrative prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to       the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take all such action including    the expeditious
granting of import licenses as shall be necessary   or convenient to
facilitate the timely Importation of the goods to    be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.

     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the Project
Account) with the Central Bank and shall, upon each withdrawal
from the Credit Account, deposit in said account in accordance
with its usual financial procedures the equivalent in Shillings of
the curreacy or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account (such
equivalenr to be determined as of the respective date of such
withdrawal). The amounts so deposited in the Project Account
shall be used excLusively to finance economic development expendi-
tures ot the Borrower.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank: (1)
to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project, to identify the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project;  (ii)   to enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to exanine any relevant records and documents in connec-
tion with the g3ods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and (iii)   to furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall      reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it. the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the goods financed out of such proceeds and their
procurement.

     Section         3.05.       (a)   The Borrower     and the   Association      shall,
from time to time, at the request of either                     party, exchange views
on the progress achieved In carrying out                        the economic program
referred     to     in      paragraphs     (A)   and   (B) of   the   Preamble to this
Agreement.

     (b)     The         first    such    exchange of views     shall   take   place not
later than April 30,              1980.

     (c)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a report,
containing such information as the Association shall   reasonably
request,  prior to and for the purpose of each such exchange of
views.

     Section 3.06. In order to assist the Borrower in implementing
a system of export   insurance and financing,   the Borrower shall
employ consultants not later than April 30, 1980, whose qualifice-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.

        Section      3.07.  The Borrower shall   cause the Central                   Bank
to maintain          records adequate to reflect     in accordance                   with
consistently          maintained appropriate accounting practices                     the
operations,         resources and expenditures           in respect     of   the Project.

                                            ARTICLE IT

                                 Remedies of the Association

     Section 4.01.  (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h)  thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:

              (1)         the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                          of the special action credit    provided under the
                                  -6-


                 Special Action Credit Agreement shall have been
                 suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                 in part, pursuant to the terms of said Agreement,
                 or
         (ii)    said credit shall have become due and payable
                 prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if,    (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event Is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event apEcified in
paragraph (a) (1i) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                               ARTICLE V

                      Effective Date:   Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all   conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Special Action Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date       Q   .     /dg/IYO       is hereby
specified for the purposes of     ection 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 5.03. The provisions of Article III of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date two years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.

                               ARTICLE VI

                Representative of the Borrower;   Adressea
     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
rhe purposes of Section 11.01 of the Ceneral Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

         The Treasury
         P.O. Box 30007
         Nairobi
         Kenya
         Cable address:                           Telexi
              FINANCE                                  22003
              Nairobi
    For the Association:
          international Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
          Cable address:                          Telex:
              INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
                                                        64145 (WI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,     the parties heretom       acting   through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.

                  Republic of Kenya

                  /s/ Authorized Representative




                  International Development Association

                  /s/ Acting Regional Vice President
                  Eastern Africa
                                              SCHEDULE I

                       Uithdrawal     of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.        The    items      that   may   he    financed    out    of the     proceeds    of    the
Credit shall be those Imported items included in SITC Divisions 2,
5,   6,        7 and   8,    for which approved            import licensee        have        been
returned to the Central Bank, as specified below:

          A.     All     items     included     in   SITC Division 2 (Crude           materials
                 and     Inedible materials,            except fuels) may be            financed
                  out of the proceeds of the Credit.


          B.      Items      included     in     SITC     Divisions     5,    6 and     7.    res-
                  pectively,       may be financed         out of the proceeds of the
                 Credit except,  hovevir, for the following items which
                 may not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:

SIT CODE                                                   DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS
Division 5:                                                      Chemical

          553.000                                          Perfumery and cosmetics,
                                                                 dentifrices and other
                                                                 toilet preparations
                                                                 (except soaps)
          554.101                                          Soap, toilet
          554.102                                          Soap, other
          571.400                                          Hunting and sporting
                                                                 ammunittn

                                                             Manufactured goods
Division 6:                                                classified by material

          613.000                                          Fur skins,      canned or
                                                                 dressed
          632.710                                          Picture and mirror frames
                                                             of Wood
          632.720                                          Household utensils of
                                                             wood
          632.731                                          Articles of personal
                                                                 adornment of wood
          651.140                                          Silk yarn put up for
                                                                 retail sale
               -9-


                       Manufactured goods
Division 6:          classified by material



     651.250         Yarn of wool or animal
                        hair put up for
                        retail sale
     651.420         Cotton yarn and thread
                        put up for retail    sale
     651.520         Flax or ramie yarn put up
                        for retail sale
     651.630         Yarn of continuous synthetic
                        fibers put up for retail
                        sale
     651.650         Yarn of discontinuous or
                        waste synthetic fibers
                        put up for retail sale
     651.730         Yarn of continuous
                        regenerated fibers put
                        up for retail sale
     651.750         Yarn of discontinuous or
                        wate regenerated fibers
                         put up for retail sale
     653.110         Silk fabrics, woven
     654.000         Tulle,    lace, embroidery,
                        ribbons, trimmings, and
                        other small ware
     656.600         Blankets and travelling rugs
     656.930         Linens and other furnishing
                        articles of textile
                        fabrics, bed sheets, bed-
                        spreads, bed covers and
                        tablecloths
     656.940         Tavels
     656.950         curtains, textile
     656.980         Linens and other furnishing
                        articles of textile
                        fabrics, n.e.c.
     657.000         Floor coverings, tapestries,
                        etc.
     665.200         Glass tableware and other
                        articles of glass for
                        household, hotel and
                        restaurant use
     666.000         Ibttery
                                          Manufactured goods
Division 6±                             classified by material
     667.000                            Pearls and precious and
                                           semi-precious stones,
                                           worked or unworked
     696.0oo                            Cutlery
     697.000                            Rousehold equipment of
                                           base metals
                                       Machinery and Transport
Division 7;                                  Equipment
     711.411                           Internal combustion engines
                                          for aircraft
     711.422                           Jets and gas turbines for
                                          aircraft
     724.100                           Television broadcast
                                          receivers, whether or
                                          not combined with sound
                                          recorders or reproducers
                                          or radios
     724.200                           Radio broadcast receivers,
                                          whether or not combined
                                          with sound recorders or
                                          reproducers
     725.000                           Domestic electrical equip-
                                          met
     732.100                           Passenger motor cars (other
                                          than buses or special
                                          vehicles) whether or
                                          not assembled
     732.910                           Motorcycles, auto-cycles,
                                          etc. and side cars
     734.000                           Aircraft
     735.000                           Ships and boats
     C.      With respect to items included in SITC Division 8, only
             the following items may be financed out of the proceeds
             of the Credit:
 SITC CODE                                  DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS

                                         Miscellaneous manufactured
Division 8:                                       articles
     861.100                            Optical elements
                                                     Miscellaneous manufactured
Division 8:                                                   articles

        861.330                                      Microscopes and diffraction
                                                        apparatus, electron and
                                                        proton
        861.340                                      Compound optical microscopes
        861.390                                      Optical appliances and
                                                        instruments, n.e.a.
        861.700                                      Medical instruments. n.e.s.
        861.800                                      Meters end counters, non-
                                                        electric
        861.900                                      Meaauring, controlling and
                                                        scientific instruments,
                                                        n.e.s.
        893.000                                      Office and stationery sup-
                                                        plies, n.e.s.
        899.600                                      Orthopedic appliances

2.      Notwithstanding         the     provisions     of   paragrapn    I above,    no
withdrawals shall he made in respect of:.

        (a)   expenditures       in the currency of             the Borrower    or for
goods or      services       supplied     from the territory of the Borrower:

        (b)   payments made for expenditures prior                      to January   l,
1980;

        (c) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which another     official       export    financing    Institution     or any inter-
national development           institution shall have financed            or agreed to
finance;

     (A) payments for taxes levied by, or in     the territory
of, the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof:

     (e)  expenditures for goods procured                   under invoices     for less
than X h 20,000 equivalent; and

      (f) any expenditures after     the aggregate of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached
the amount of twenty milion dollars ($20,000,000)       equivalent,
unless the Association is satisfied,    after the exchange of views
                             -   12 -


which shall take place pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of thin
AgreeUL, With respect to the progress achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out of the economic program referred to in para-
graphs (A)   and (B) of the Preamble to this   Agreement and in
particular of the measures described in   Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
                              -13   -



                           SCHEDULE 2

                   Deacription of the Project

     The Project consists of certain measures to be taken by
the Borrower in carrying out its economic program referred to in
parAgraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement, includ-
ing the measures described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
and a program of Importation of assential goods.
                                    -14-


                                 SCHEDULE 3

     In    reviewing   the   progress   achieved   by the   Borrower     in the
carrying out of the economic program        referred to in paragraphs (A)
and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement,             the Borrower and the
Association shall locus in particular on!

     (1)    The adequacy of the Forward            Sudget   for    the   Fiscal
            Years 1980/81 to 1982/83;

     (2)    Improvements in debt management,       including:

            (a)    the provision of technical assistance to and the
                   strengthening of staff of the Treasury dealing
                   with external debt; and

            (b)    the establishment    of a record of private external
                   debt;

     (3)    Implementation of measures to phase out Letters of
            No Objection Privileges, including enforcement of the
            Borrower's directive providing that no new Letters of No
            Objection Privileges shall be granted, and that existing
            Letters of No Objection Privileges shall not be renewed
            or extended but shall to the extent permitted be termi-
            nated:

     (4)    The Borrower's measures        to ensure    adequate    incentives
            for export, including:

             (a)   a plan of measures, to be implemented during the
                   Borrower's Fiscal Year 1980/81, for the adminis-
                   rrative simplification of its   existing export
                   compensation system; and

             (b)   progress made in the design of an export insurance
                   and financing system, which is expected to be
                   introduced by Septemher 1980;

     (5)     rhe introduction or retentiun ot an appropriate               level
             and structure of interest rates in Kenya; and

     (6)     Progress achieved in carrying out the ongoing study
             aimed at rationalization of Kenya's trade regime.
