Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqwt No. 11835
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2335-ZDM)
APRIL 30, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =      Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
US$ 1.00 (at Appraisal)    =      Z$ 0.91
US$ 1.00 (at Closing)      =      Z$ 5.00
US$ 1.00 (at Appraisal)     =     SDR 0.930
US$ 1.00 (at Closing)      =      SDR 0.724
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)   =    2.20 pounds
1 metric ton     =     1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton     =     0.98 long ton
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Zimbabwe         =      July 1 to June 30
IFAD                           =      July 1 to June 30
World Bank                     =      July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AGRITEX    Department of Agricultural Technical Services and Extension
CA           Communal Area
CAF          Communal Area Farmers
CMED         Central Mechanical Equipment Department
COFRE        Committee for On-farm Research and Extension
CP           FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
DR&SS        Department of Research and Specialist Services
ES           Extension Supervisor
EW           Extension Worker
FA0/ISP      FAO Investment Support Program
FSR          Farming Systems Research
GOZ          Government of Zimbabwe
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
MEU          Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFEPD        Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MIS          Management Information System
MLARR        Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement
MPCNH        Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
MSB          Management Service Branch of AGRITEX
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PCR          Project Completion Report
ROFREC       Regional On-farm Research and Extension Committee
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TB           Tender Board
WB           World Bank



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dlrector-General
Operations Evaluation
April 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe
National Aaricultural Extension and Research Proiect (Loan 2335-ZIM)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Zimbabwe - National Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Loan 2335-ZIM)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II of the report was prepared by the Borrower.
The project is rated satisfactory as it did eventually lead to improved research
and extension services. Major improvements, however, are still required before the
services can be considered effective and efficient. The adequacy of operational funds to
sustain and improve the services is not assured. Attempts are being made to address the
issue under a subsequent Agricultural Services Project (ASP-1 992).
The Project Completion Report provides an adequate account of project
implementation.
The project may be audited in conjunction with the ASP after its completion.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performanco of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2335-ZIM)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .......................................................   i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   ...........................................                                                                                       iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK/IFAD PERSPECTIVE ..................   1
Project Identity  ...............................................                                                                             1
Background   .................................................                                                                                 1
Sector Development Objectives and  Strategy  .............................                                                                    1
Project Objectives and  Description  ...................................                                                                      2
Project Design  and  Organization   ....................................                                                                      3
Project Implementation   ..........................................                                                                           4
Project Results   ...............................................                                                                             6
Project Sustainability ........................................... 9
Bank/IFAD  Performance  .........................................                                                                            10
Borrower Performance   ..........................................                                                                            10
Lessons Learned   ..............................................                                                                             11
Consulting  Services   ............................................                                                                          12
Project Documentation  and Data   ....................................    12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                              ........ 13
Introduction .................................................  13
Major Project Results  ...........................................                                                                           13
Bank  Performance  .............................................                                                                             19
Borrower's Performance   .........................................    20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .................................  21
Related  Bank  Loans/Credits  .......................................    21
Project Timetable   .............................................                                                                            22
Loan  Disbursements  ............................................    23
Project Implementation   ..........................................                                                                         24
Project Costs and  Financing  .......................................                                                                       25
Project Costs and  Financing  .......................................                                                                       26
Project Results   ...............................................    27
Status of Covenants   ............................................    28
Status of Covenants  ............................................    29
Status of Covenants  ............................................    30
Status of Covenants  ............................................    31
Use of Bank  Resources  ..........................................                                                                           32
Use of Bank  Resources  ..........................................                                                                           33
MAPS: IBRD 17003R and IBRD 16940R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2335-ZIM)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (NAERP) in Zimbabwe, for which Loan 2335-ZIM, in the amount of US$ 13 million, was
approved on 7 July 1983. The project was co-financed by IFAD with Loan 123-ZI in the amount of SDR
17 million which was approved on 29 July 1983. The World Bank was appointed as IFAD's Cooperating
Institution to administer the loan. Loan 2335-ZIM closed on 30 September 1991, three and a half years
behind schedule. A balance of US$ 2.2 million of the IBRD Loan and SDR 5 million of the IFAD Loan
were cancelled.
Parts I and III of this PCR was prepared jointly by the staff of the World Bank Southern Africa
Agriculture Operations Division, IFAD and FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP), and are based
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and information gathered by the joint
mission which visited Zimbabwe in November 1991. Part II was prepared by the Borrower following
a more complete final project report.
The Borrower commented on an earlier draft of Parts I and III and these comments were taken
into account where appropriate.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2335-ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Zimbabwe consistently produced a food surplus; however, this
surplus production came predominantly from the large-scale commercial farmers. In contrast, the
majority of communal area farmers (CAFs) were oriented toward subsistence production, because the
majority lived on agriculturally marginal lands, lacked credit facilities, inputs, marketing services,
adaptive research and adequate extension services.  The Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) at
independence was concerned about the income disparities between the commercial farmers and the
smallholders in the CAs and the potential for social and political instability if these imbalances were not
addressed. Therefore, GOZ initiated programs to improve the access of CAFs to agricultural services
as well as to resettle 162,000 CA households. The program also intended to improve the farmers'access
to credit, input supplies and marketing services, as well as to extension services, which would be backed
by strong adaptive research.
2.    The project was formulated with the principal objectives of improving agricultural productivity
in the CA and thus raising the farmers' income levels. These objectives were in line with IFAD's lending
policies and criteria which target the least privileged as well as the Bank's objective to alleviate poverty.
Besides equity considerations, increased agricultural productivity in CAs would serve as a basis for
commercial and export crop production and diversification.
Implementation
3.    The Bank/IFAD loans became effective in November 1983. Project activities were completed on
30 September 1991 and the loans were closed on 31 January 1992, three and a half years behind
schedule.
4.    During the 1980s, a number of external factors impacted on the project. Civil service capacity
experienced a progressive erosion due primarily to a decline in the real value of public sector salaries,
a decline in the real value of recurrent budgets, especially in the last two years, and a consequent loss
of morale on the part of civil servants. The pace of implementation was very slow in the first several
years of the project, due in large part to these externalities. A number of senior experienced staff left
government service following independence in 1980, and rapid staff turnover was caused by employees
moving to higher paying jobs, particularly in the private sector. Further, the lack of familiarity of
implementing agencies with Bank/IFAD procedures and inadequate implementation capacity by MPCNH
which was responsible for execution of the civil works program were significant factors in slow start-up
of the project.



- iv -
5.    Procurement, particularly of research equipment for DR&SS, was a continuing problem. The
situation improved in 1990 when, after repeated requests, the Government allowed the project to engage
a procurement consultant to help prepare the necessary bid and tender documents. The civil works
program was continually behind schedule and MPCNH resisted all requests to sub-contract part of the
construction work to private contractors. When they were eventually hired in 1990, the civil works
program moved at an appreciable speed. The delivery of vehicles was generally well executed by CMED
although minor disputes arose about canopies for the pick-up vans. The recruitment of technical
assistance was sub-contracted to a private firm and proceeded smoothly. Several consultants were
retained by Government at the end of their assignments. The external training envisaged for AGRITEX
and DR&SS staff largely never materialized because Government was not keen to use loan funds to
finance training activities.
6.    The implementation lag of the initial years resulted in a correspondingly low  rate of
disbursements. By the end of June 1987, almost four years after project activities started, only US$ 5.8
million or about 19% of the loan had been utilized. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account was
set up at the end of 1984 from which GOZ would be able to settle some of the foreign payments without
recourse to Washington and Rome. However, although the Bank promptly deposited US$ 0.35 million
in the account, it was untouched until 1990. The lost momentum of the initial years, particularly in the
civil works and procurement programs, was never regained and the project was extended four times, for
a total of three and a half years.
7.    Actual project costs are estimated at US$ 209 million or 22% in excess of the SAR estimate. The
World Bank and IFAD respectively contributed US$ 11 million and US$ 16 million, or 13% of total
costs, while Government contributed US$ 182 million, or 87%. Because of the initial disbursement lag,
the depreciation of the local currency vis-a-vis other major currencies, and the reluctance of GOZ to
utilize borrowed funds to finance external training. Consequently, a balance of US$2.2 million of the
IBRD Loan and SDR 5 million of the IFAD Loan were cancelled.
Results
8.    The project was a considerable success in strengthening AGRITEX and DR&SS as institutions,
particularly during a period when resources available to these units were extremely limited. During the
life of the project, 1,194 residential houses, one laboratory, and five office blocks were constructed. The
project also provided 407 vehicles, 1,638 motorcycles and research equipment and offered in-house
training for staff. The provision of residential quarters and vehicles (the latter sold to AGRITEX staff)
substantially improved morale and considerably reduced turnover.
9.    An analysis of the main farming activities in the CA shows that there has been substantial
improvement in productivity during the project period. With the exception of soybeans and groundnuts,
the production of key crops such as maize, sorghum and cotton in communal areas increased both in
terms of yield and share of total national production. There has also been an all-round increase in animal
population in the CA ranging from 17% for cattle to 98% for pigs; however, it is difficult to separate
the project's impact from other factors, such as improved credit, input supplies, price and marketing,
which also contributed to improved CAF performance.



Sustainability
10.   To ensure sustainability of support services, the Government will have to change the method of
financing recurrent costs. Such changes are being considered under a follow-up project - the Agricultural
Services Project (appraised in June/July 1992) - to be financed by IDA. The government has awarded
a high priority to that project, indicating its intention to address deficiencies and ensure sustainability.
11.   Innovative methods are therefore required to ensure sustainability:  Cost sharing with
beneficiaries; introduction of extension and research strategies which can be sustained within the available
government budgetary resources; promotion of bottom-up approach with farmers participation; and cost
reduction strategies including coordination of services between AGRITEX and DRSS to avoid duplication
of efforts particularly in the area of farm trials.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.   In retrospect, the following lessons may be learned from the project experience: (1) A steering
committee or special unit is needed to coordinate the work of the different agencies involved. (2)
Research and extension activities are better executed if they are part of a national master plan. (3)
Recipient and donor institutions must develop flexible procedures.  (4) Research and extension
management systems should encourage adequate in-house consultation. (5) Top-down delivery of
technical recommendations is not an appropriate way to meet the needs of farmers. (6) An adequate level
of recurrent funding must be sustained if investment in research and extension is to be fully realized. (7)
The implementation capacity of participating agencies must be adequately reviewed at appraisal. (8)
Services such as water, sewerage and electricity must be adequately provided when planning large-scale
housing construction programs.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2335-ZIM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK/IFAD PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name       National Agricultural Extension and Research Project
IBRD Loan No.      2335-ZIM
IFAD Loan No.       123-ZI
RVP Unit           Africa
Country            Zimbabwe
Sector             Agriculture
2. Background
2.1   The National Agricultural Extension and Research Project (NAERP) was the first IFAD-assisted
and second Bank-assisted agricultural development project in Zimbabwe. The project was originally
defined by an IFAD Project Identification and Programming Mission which visited Zimbabwe in April
1981. A follow-up mission visited Zimbabwe in September 1981, and in November, FAO/ISP and IFAD
mounted a joint Preparation Mission. The World Bank appraised the project in September 1982 and sent
a post-appraisal mission, assisted by IFAD, to Zimbabwe in December 1982. Bank co-financing with
IFAD was proposed when it became apparent, during the course of preparation, that the project would
be fairly large in scope as well as of fundamental importance in the Government's overall sectoral
development strategy. The loans were approved by the respective Boards in July 1983 for IFAD and in
August 1983 for IBRD. They became effective in November that year.
2.2   The project was scheduled to be completed on 31 March 1988. However, implementation was
very slow in the first years due to a combination of factors discussed in para 5.2 below. Momentum in
the initial years never developed and completion deadlines had to be extended four times. Thus, the
project was completed in September 1991, three-and-a half years behind schedule.
Sector Development Objectives and Strategy
2.3    At independence, Zimbabwe inherited a dualistic farming system with commercial (usually white)
farmers occupying most of the fertile, highly productive land while the majority of small farmers (mostly
black) were restricted to communal areas (CA) where land was poor and yields were low. Therefore,
although the country as a whole consistently produced a food surplus, marketed production came
predominantly from commercial farmers. Conversely, CAF productivity was low, as they lacked credit
facilities, inputs, marketing services, adaptive research and adequate extension advice.
2.4   Because the Government of newly independent Zimbabwe (GOZ) was concerned about the
potential for social and political instability if the above imbalances were not addressed, it initiated a
resettlement program for the landless and those with insufficient land. Access to credit was to be
improved as well as input supply and marketing services. As part of the strategy, extension services were
to be improved and backed by strong adaptive research.



- 2 -
2.    Because its lending policies and criteria target the least privileged, IFAD decided to address the
needs of CAFs and those to be resettled by Government. IFAD concluded that a project that would
strengthen and re-orientate research and extension services towards the CAs would lead to increased
production. Besides equity considerations, increased food crop productivity in these areas would release
commercial farm resources for export crops and the expected surplus cash crop production from CAs
would complement and, in some cases (e.g., with cotton) even play a major role in export crop
production and diversification.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1    The project's main objectives were:
(a) to improve agricultural productivity in the communal areas; and
(b) to raise the income levels of the CAFs.
3.2   They were to be achieved by:
(a) supporting an adaptive research program targeted to CAs; and
(b) introducing new technologies through strengthened extension services.
3.3    The project took the form of a national program with activities throughout the country. It had
two broad components:
(a) Strengthening the extension program. This included establishing a Management Services
Branch within the Department of Agricultural Technical Services and Extension (AGRITEX)
in the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement (MLARR); rationalizing field
extension services; strengthening in-service training of extension staff; and setting up pilot
schemes in order to refine current extension techniques and test new ones. Extension field
staff were to be provided with vehicles and appropriate housing facilities.
(b) Strengthening the research program. This included improving the administration of the
Department of Research and Specialist Services (DR&SS) in MLARR; providing research
station infrastructure, equipment and vehicles; expanding research in CAs--including on-farm
trials, farming systems research (FSR) and on-station research; training staff; and offering
technical assistance.
3.4   Total project costs (including non-incremental costs) were estimated at US$ 177 million. The
World Bank and IFAD would contribute 18% of total financing requirements by respectively providing
US$ 13 million and SDR 16.7 million by way of loans. The remaining US$ 146 million or 82% of total
costs were to be funded by Government.



-3-
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    Design.  The project was generally well-designed and appropriate for the circumstances,
institutional structures and capacities at the time. Its overall objective of focusing on the communal
farmers was appropriate since little research and extension effort had been channelled to them in the past.
Because of the increased emphasis on CA agriculture following independence, the project rightly
recognized that new approaches would be needed in the management of extension and research. Since
it was not considered feasible to establish a parallel extension system for CAs or to construct new
research stations in the CAs, the project correctly decided to use the existing agencies of AGRITEX and
DR&SS but increasingly to re-orientate them towards CAs. This implied an increased need for transport
facilities, equipment, better housing and training which the project provided.
4.2    A main drawback of the project policy and planning environment was the lack of a National
Research and Extension Master Plan that would have identified research and extension priorities, gaps
and inter-relationships which project activities could have addressed.
4.3   In the civil works program, the design of junior staff houses had two major flaws:
(a) Because the eaves were too short, walls were often wet during the wet seasons; and
(b) No provision was made for use of woodfuel by the junior staff who cannot afford electric
cookers and electricity for cooking.
4.4    During the implementation of the second phase of the civil works, the Bank pointed out these
flaws and MPCNH changed the design but never put the new version into practice. Another design flaw
was to plan the construction of a large number of houses, without, in some cases, adequately providing
for services such as water, electricity, cooking facilities and sewage. As a result, existing services were
overloaded which, in turn, translated into intermittent service and potential environmental and health
hazards.
4.5    Organization. A conscious decision was taken not to set up a separate management unit for the
project. Instead, the project was to be implemented by the existing agencies in the respective line
ministries. Extension activities were to be carried out by AGRITEX, while research (including
determining the materials and equipment to be procured) was to be managed by DR&SS. The Ministry
of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH) was to undertake the civil works while the
Central Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED) was responsible for the procurement of vehicles.
AGRITEX and DR&SS staff were to meet in joint annual review meetings which, for the first time,
would allow the two agencies involved in extension and research to formally assess progress and map out
a strategy for their activities, together. However, the project lacked a coordinating mechanism for all
the ministries involved--which included the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and Development
(MFEPD)--chaired by MLARR, which would have greatly helped to ensure a harmonious implementation
of the project.



-4 -
5. Project Implementation
5.1    The Bank/IFAD loans became effective in November 1983 after a delay of one month. This
slight delay was necessitated to enable IFAD to obtain from Zimbabwe copies of all laws, decrees and
orders to which legal opinions referred.
5.2   Project implementation was extremely slow in the first several years of the project. This was due
to a combination of factors, including the loss of senior experienced staff following independence in 1980;
rapid staff turnover as employees moved to higher paying jobs (particularly in the private sector); and
lack of familiarity with Bank/IFAD procedures by the implementing agencies. The civil works
construction was further slowed by the inadequate implementation capacity of MPCNH which, based on
post-independence political attitudes, had been charged with implementing all aspects of the program to
the exclusion of the private sector; the scattered nature of the sites; lack of adequate budgetary
allocations; and delays in acquiring the targeted construction sites.
5.3    As a result of the above bottlenecks, project implementation lagged for an extended period. To
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account was set up in late 1984 from which GOZ could settle some
foreign payments without recourse to Washington or Rome. Although the Bank promptly deposited
US$ 0.35 million in the account, it was untouched until 1990. Thus, by the end of June 1987, when the
project was close to scheduled completion, only about US$ 5.8 million or 19% of the Bank/IFAD funds
had been disbursed--largely for technical assistance and equipment. In addition, the civil works program
was very much behind schedule and the bulk of the equipment, particularly for DR&SS, had not been
procured.
5.4   It thus became apparent that the project would have to be extended if it was to meet its objectives.
The first extension was to the end of March 1991 (in three one-year tranches), and then to September
1991 (for an additional six months). This was needed to facilitate the procurement of important
equipment for DR&SS and complete some crucial civil works activities which, by then, were progressing
well (MPCNH had agreed to sub-contract part of the work to private contractors and GOZ had allowed
them to import badly needed building materials). The Bank/lIFAD loans were closed at the end of
January 1992.
5.5    As shown in Part III, Table 5, actual project costs are estimated at US$ 209 million or 22% in
excess of the SAR estimate. The World Bank and IFAD contributed US$ 27 million or 13% of total
costs while Government contributed US$ 182 million or 87%. Because of the initial disbursement lag,
the depreciation of the local currency vis a vis other major currencies and the reluctance of GOZ to utilize
the US$ 1.2 million provided by Bank/lFAD loans for training. Consequently, a balance of US$2.2
million of the IBRD Loan and SDR 5 million of the IFAD Loan were cancelled.
5.6   The key project implementation indicators are set out in Part III, Table 4. The implementation
of individual components is reviewed in the following paragraphs.
Research Program
5.7    The reorientation of the research programs (at the research stations) towards the needs of CAs
and the expansion of this program have been successfully implemented. This is to the credit of senior
staff of DR&SS, research scientists and consultants who worked for varying periods. To improve
research/extension linkages, the Committee for On-Farm Research and Extension (COFRE) was set up



at the national level and regional On-farm Research and Extension Committees (ROFREC) were
established for each region. This arrangement was considered a success and was accepted as a sound
concept by both research and extension staff. Initial problems in methodology and management were
worked out, but unfortunately in recent years the DR&SS on-farm trials program and the off-station
programs had to be curtailed because of lack of transport and reduced levels of funding. Since on-farm
trials were expensive and research stations were far from the CAs, the COFRE program was more
adversely affected than the on-station programs by shortages of funds. Many COFRE participants are
of the opinion that the program should have been independently financed and not relied on the DR&SS
and AGRITEX budgets. Had this been done, the priority funding arranged for this activity might have
been maintained instead of being the first to be reduced in periods of financial stringency.
5.8   Except for the in-service training provided by the consultants for their counterparts, little external
training was funded for research staff under the project. The Government made a decision not to use
Bank loan funds for overseas training and study tours, instead preferring to use lower cost IFAD funds.
5.9   Procurement was a constant problem. DR&SS staff were unacquainted with the intricacies of
international procurement and the Bank's requirements for awarding contracts. Although research
vehicles arrived early in the project, only small amounts of research equipment were acquired. This
experience adversely affected the confidence of DR&SS senior staff and convinced them of the need to
seek professional assistance before embarking on a second round of procurement. The Bank offered to
provide a procurement adviser under the project but this was steadfastly refused by the Tender Board
(TB) until it became clear in 1990 that the Bank intended to close the project. Finally a consultant was
engaged and the equipment procured (in the eighth year of the project). This equipment was sorely
needed from the outset, and the delay frustrated the research staff, who neither understood, nor were
informed, of the cause. However, the situation was partially alleviated because some of the equipment
was secured from either bilateral donors or purchased with alternative funds. DR&SS staff also were
unhappy at not being offered project vehicles on personal loans as had been the case for AGRITEX.
5.10  For most of the project period, MPCNH was reluctant to award contracts to private contractors
for the construction of civil works on research stations. When contracts were eventually awarded, the
construction progress was much faster but the quality of some of the work was poor, due to poor design.
Conversely, construction by MPCNH was of good quality but proceeded at a very slow rate. Because
of the compartmentalization of responsibilities, research staff were unable to correct mistakes in design
and construction although these were obvious.
5.11   The execution of the research program was seriously hampered by the lack of operational vehicles
and farm equipment. The decision that all repair and maintenance should be done by central workshops
which were inadequately supplied with spare parts, meant that vehicles sent for repair were retained for
long periods and often cannibalized for parts needed elsewhere. The result was a shortage of equipment
at research stations and inadequate repair and maintenance facilities.
Extension Program
5.12   In general, the extension program got off to an encouraging beginning. The first tranche of pick-
up trucks and motorcycles were ordered and delivered, and a modest start was made on the field housing
program. Some streamlining in the line of command was made in the Field Services Division of
AGRITEX, and the Technical Services Division made more specialist staff available at provincial and
district levels (who were redeployed from the center). The first pilot scheme at Wedza continued and



-6 -
two additional schemes were initiated: One incorporated a modified form of Training and Visit (T&V),
the other involved the use of radio, video and the media. However the other two pilot schemes never
got off the ground; and both baseline surveys done for the Media Pilot scheme and the Midlands T&V
Pilot scheme were not completed.
5.13   Technical assistance was recruited to work on curriculum development and help set up an M&E
Unit, and the Management Services Division was created in AGRITEX. Technical recommendations
particularly for hybrid maize, cotton and sunflower, (all crops of major importance in the large-scale
commercial sector), began to be made on a widespread scale to CA farmers (particularly those in more
fertile zones). However, it soon became clear that extension recommendations were often irrelevant to
the large mass of CA farmers. Thus, DR&SS decided to carry out more diagnostic surveys before
agreeing to new extension sub-project activities, and to evolve a better mechanism to improve research-
extension linkages through COFRE and ROFREC.
5.14  In late 1985, the Ministry of Agriculture was merged with the Ministry of Lands and Rural
Resettlement, which inevitably caused some disruption and was accompanied by more staff losses,
including the AGRITEX Director, who had helped prepare and appraise the project. Disputes also
surfaced with MPCNH, which led to delays in the housing program. Motorcycle spare parts proved
difficult to obtain making it difficult to keep the field level extension workers and their supervisors
mobile. Later, field staff mobility deteriorated further when, although the budget remained constant, staff
mileage and travel allowances were increased, with the result that less travel was possible.
5.15   As with DR&SS, there was little external training under the project for AGRITEX staff. Only
four man-months out of the SAR estimate of 198 man-months for fellowships and study tours were
utilized.
6. Project Results
6.1   General. The project results estimated by examining pre- and post-project crop production and
livestock data indicate that, with the exception of soybeans and groundnuts, crop production in CAs has
increased both in terms of yield and share of total national production. (See Part III, Table 6).1 Table
Increases in production and yields of main crops in CA were as follows:
Crop      -----------81/82 ----------    ------------90/91 ----------  ---------Increase--
Yield     Prod.         Yield        Prod.                 %
(mt/ha)   (000 mt)       (mt/ha)    (000 mt)       Yield        Prod.
Maize         0.6          595          1.1         1,019          83          71
Sorghum       0.3          50           0.5          51            67          2
Cotton        0.5          27           0.7          138           40         411
This table is a summary of Part Jll, Table 6.



6 also shows an all-round increase in animal population ranging from 17% for cattle to 98% for pigs.
Although other factors like improved credit facilities, input supplies and marketing contributed to these
increases, the project complemented them. Therefore, there are good reasons to assume that the project's
main objectives (para 3.1) were largely achieved. It is true that the impact of the project on CAFs has
not been adequately analyzed. In part, the reason is that the full benefits of the project-particularly the
research program--are yet to be realized. Also, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU), which was
set up in AGRITEX by the project, has not carried out any impact assessment studies. However, for a
balanced judgement, it must be recognized that deficiencies in M&E have been experienced in most
agricultural development projects in Africa and the rest of the world.
6.2    The project also strengthened AGRITEX and DR&SS as institutions. As shown in Part III, Table
5, the project offered the two institutions better residential quarters, office accommodation, transport
facilities, technical assistance and training. In particular, the provision of residential quarters and vehicles
(the latter on personal loan for AGRITEX staff) substantially improved staff morale and considerably
reduced turnover. However, rapid turnover in the earlier years and an insufficient number of counterparts
meant the benefits of technical assistance and training were not fully realized. Further, lengthy delays,
particularly by DR&SS, in procuring the research equipment (some of it is still arriving) meant that
benefits from their use will not be realized for some time to come. The results and impact of the
individual components are discussed below.
6.3    Research. The primary aim of the component was to expand research on agricultural problems
in the CAs. This was largely achieved and research stations were equipped with housing, facilities and
vehicles, albeit not to the levels originally envisaged at appraisal. The project built 479 junior staff
houses, 72 senior staff houses, 10 flats/bachelors quarters, five office blocks, one laboratory unit and
carried out five major rehabilitation works including the installation of new sewerage systems. The
project also purchased 47 motor vehicles, 11 tractors, 38 motorcycles, personal computers and an
assortment of research equipment.
6.4    Some useful results were obtained from research, including:
(a) Use of sorghum and millet stover in animal feed;
(b) Release of low-chill requiring apple cultivars;
(c) Small-scale irrigation based on porous pots and pipes;
(d) Improved bulls for release in CAs;
(e) Ways to pen fatten culled cattle;
(f) Methods to feed and maintain draft animals;
(g) Provision of virus-free planting material of sweet potatoes and strawberries;
(h) Construction of tied furrows for moisture retention;
(i) Methods to produce vegetable seed;
(j) Methods to store onions;
(k) Release of cotton cultivars highly regarded by spinners;
(1) Peg-board methods for insect scouting;
(m) Moisture conservation through tied ridges and pot-holes for cotton cultivation.



- 8 -
6.5    Additional research programs were initiated on topics of special interest to the CAFs. These
included research on small ruminants, rabbits, agro-forestry, mixed cropping (especially food crops mixed
with fodder crops), donkey draft power, tissue culture of planting material, flower culture, use of crop
residues and gathered wild material for animal feeding, pyrethrum, raspberries, nuts and soft fruit. There
has been limited progress in farming systems research (FSR), except for the establishment of a small unit
at headquarters. There appears to be little commitment to FSR as a separate topic for research; rather,
it is felt it should be integrated into ongoing disciplines and commodity programs.
6.6    Extension. The main result of the extension component was to develop a more effective grass
roots extension service in closer contact with CAFs through the use of a group approach. However, at
the outset of the project, extension recommendations drawn from the commercial sector were passed on
to farmers in a top-down fashion with little adaptation or consideration for the very varied resources of
individual farmers. The more sensitive extension supervisors and field workers did adapt messages,
especially with regard to fertilizer recommendations, but many did not. It took sometime for AGRITEX
headquarters staff to understand this problem, but moves were made in 1987 to adopt a more iterative
approach in discussing seasonal programs with farmer groups, in setting different seasonal targets for
different members according to their resources, and more recently, since 1989, in adopting a diagnostic
approach when planning any new extension activity, trial or demonstration. In effect, a de facto
stratification of farmers took place in some areas, but it is not yet accepted as a key tool of extension
methodology, nor has it been introduced into the training curricula. So while an encouraging move in the
right direction was made, it has not yet been adopted as standard practice. Thus, there are hardly any
extension messages of direct relevance to the poorest 30% of all farmers, especially to single-headed
households with limited labor and no access to draught power.
6.7    The learning process from refining and testing extension messages and methodologies through the
four pilot schemes as envisaged at appraisal did not largely materialize. Only two of the four schemes
were launched but these, along with the old pilot scheme at Wedza, were never closely monitored by
AGRITEX and no useful analysis of their experiences is available.
6.8    The project did not succeed in establishing an effective Management Service Branch (MSB) and
a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) in AGRITEX. Thus, within that department, the MSB never
became the main unit for evaluating data generated from the field (as envisioned) or for analyzing
economic issues and serving as an in-house policy unit for AGRITEX. For its part, the MEU is a small
and weak unit lacking guidance and direction which does not enjoy the confidence of field staff and whose
survey approach does not analyze AGRITEX's main problems.  Consequently, the input from  a
monitoring and evaluation consultant designed for 18 months and spread over a three-year period was
largely squandered. The lack of commitment to the monitoring operation and the inflexible attitudes of
senior AGRITEX staff resulted in a failure to assess the effectiveness of the various extension options to
be tested under the project. An attempt to design a management information system (MIS) for AGRITEX
did not materialize and suggestions to bring in more support to design such a system were not acted on
even though AGRITEX agreed this was needed.
6.9    The project built 633 residential houses for extension workers and rehabilitated another 206. It
also helped staff to purchase 349 vehicles and 1,600 motorcycles on personal loans. Further, it offered
in-house training to over 14,600 staff and farmers (see Part III, Annex 1) in areas of animal and crop
husbandry, extension process, farm management, personnel management and land use. The provision of
residential quarters, transport and training greatly helped improve staff morale and stem the tide of staff
leaving to take up better jobs elsewhere.
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - -     - - -



- 9 -
6.10   Opportunities Missed. While the project has undoubtedly strengthened the research and extension
services, and reoriented their operations towards the CAs, it nevertheless missed some opportunities,
although not at a level significantly exceeding the situation observed in other countries under similar
conditions. These are:
(a) More housing units could have been built and thus more staff given decent living quarters
if the civil works program had proceeded according to schedule;
(b) The quality and range of research and trials could have been improved if the necessary
research equipment had been procured on time;
(c) The use of vehicle loans for research staff would not only have improved morale (and
reduced staff losses) but also would have enabled on-farm trials to be supervised more
effectively and enthusiastically;
(d) Failure to monitor the pilot schemes with an effective MEU or set up an MIS system delayed
AGRITEX's ability to develop a stronger national extension strategy;
(e) The continuance of a top-down approach to extension, failure to stratify farmers at an earlier
stage and develop more appropriate recommendations for all types of farmers, or to work
in a more participatory manner with farmers, reduced potential extension impact and meant
that many poor farm families were largely by-passed;
(f) appropriate action on the proposal by supervision missions to set-up Project Coordinating
Committee if accepted, would have improved the project implementation through
coordination of efforts of the different implementing ministries; and
(g) the World Bank advised the use of special account in PY2 but final action in that respect for
World Bank Special Account was not taken until 1990, a year to the end of the project; and
never for IFAD Special Account. Failure in this respect heightened the project liquidity
problem. Lack of action to operationalize IFAD's special account led to a situation where
the Government used the World Bank funds to finance IFAD eligible expenditure. IFAD
loan is at 4% while the IBRD Loan is at normal market rate.
7. Project Sustainabilitv
7.1    To ensure sustainability, the government will have to introduce changes in the way recurrent costs
are financed. Such changes are being considered under a follow-up IDA project - the Agricultural
Services Project (appraised in June/July 1992). As the Government has awarded high priority to that
project, there are good reasons to assume that deficiencies described below will be addressed. Project
design required on-farm research in CAs to be conducted by scientists located at research stations, several
of which were outside the CAs. These are expensive operations, requiring a substantial outlay in
operating funds for office overheads, travel and subsistence, in addition to the normal costs associated
with running experiments. It seems clear that Government is unable to continue to finance these costs
and recently began to reduce its level of recurrent funding in real terms (on a gradual basis), while
overhead and transportation costs have increased. The problem has been aggravated by the sustained
increase in staff: For example, the number of professional and technical staff at AGRITEX increased by



- 10 -
33% during the life of the project (see Part III, Annex 2). Thus, funds allocated to core extension and
research programs had to be cut to balance the budgets. If not corrected, this would have jeopardized
not only the investments in physical infrastructure but the whole CA extension and research plan.
7.2    Extension and research activities cannot be conducted indefinitely under conditions of scarce
financial resources. Innovative methods are therefore required to ensure that sufficient operating funds
are available. These might include:
(a) Obtaining outside funding (contracting). This has already been exploited by some research
stations, e.g. those for cotton and horticulture, which obtained funds from both in-country
and external sources for specific research programs. If more funds were obtained in this
manner, it could free up Government funds for other programs.
(b) Establishing revolving funds from the sale of research station and extension products or from
levies or cess imposed on benefitting crops. This method could be used for cotton,
horticulture, livestock and others where the station produces a marketable product as a result
of its research activities. Provision would have to be made to ensure that funds raised are
retained by the station and not transmitted to treasury.
(c) Establishing a fund into which donors would be requested to contribute instead of supporting
individual and discreet extension and research projects.
(d) Increasing the use of NGOs in partnership with AGRITEX and DR&SS.
(e) Turning the DR&SS into a research parastatal which will operate on commercial lines in
partnership with the private sector.
8. Bank/IFAD Performance
8.1    The decision by the Bank and IFAD to support GOZ in improving research and extension services
was appropriate given the target group and the commitment of the two institutions to alleviate poverty.
However, the project as designed appears in retrospect to have been too ambitious and under-estimated
the time and effort required to reorient the research and extension thrust to the CAs, especially under the
conditions prevailing in a country which had just become independent. IFAD and the Bank also over-
estimated the implementation capacity of the GOZ agencies, particularly since many key senior staff had
left or were leaving their posts following the country's independence and those who remained were
looking to other sectors for better remuneration.
8.2    As shown in Part Ill, Table 8, the project was actively supervised. A total of 21 supervision
missions visited Zimbabwe during the project to monitor implementation progress. Their input was found
useful by the implementing agencies. However, given the procurement difficulties and the slow pace of
the civil works program (which were evident from the very early stages of the project), the missions
should have included members proficient in those two fields far earlier. More could then have been
achieved in the physical implementation program and the project could have been completed earlier.



- 11 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.1    Throughout the period of implementation, GOZ demonstrated continuous support for the project:
despite budgetary constraints especially in the last two years. GOZ also met all covenants relating to the
loan agreement with the notable exception of those relating to financial audits which were generally
submitted late. The Comptroller and Auditor General's office corrected the audit default situation, which
was partly due to a conceptual misunderstanding between the Bank and the Auditor General about the
reporting style and format. All audit reports which were due have now been submitted.
9.2    GOZ agencies, however, were not always willing to deviate from bureaucratic procedures even
when this would have improved project implementation. For example, for a long time, MPCNH refused
to award part of the civil works construction to private contractors although it was apparent that MPCNH
was not able to do the works on its own. Another example is the prolonged refusal by the tender board
(TB) to allow the project to hire a procurement specialist even when it was clear that such services were
necessary for DR&SS to comply with the procurement procedures under Bank and IFAD rules. The
refusal by MPCNH and TB to give the necessary timely clearances in these two situations cost the project
dearly in terms of time and money as delays occurred and prices for the related civil works and
equipment continued to rise.
10. Lessons Learnd
10.1  Several important lessons have been learned from this project:
(a) Whenever a project is implemented by different agencies, a coordinating unit or steering
committee composed of representatives from the agencies involved should be created to
oversee project activities and iron out any inter-agency problems.
(b) Procedural flexibility by Government and the lending institutions is essential to successful
project implementation.
(c) The importance of having a research and extension master plan as well as having an effective
means of coordinating research and extension activities.
(d) Research and extension management systems should encourage adequate consultation and
communication between headquarters and field staff so that each is aware of the other's
objectives and needs.
(e) The planning of large-scale housing construction programs should include adequate provision
for related services such as water, sewerage and electricity.
(f) Before implementing a project which has substantial procurement and civil works programs,
the implementation capacity of the participating agencies should be adequately reviewed (at
appraisal), and their staff should be given adequate up-front training in the Bank/IFAD
procurement and disbursement procedures.
(g) In a project of this nature, it is essential to have an effective MEU to carry out and analyze
base line surveys (for all units participating in the project) at regular intervals throughout the
life of the project so as to gauge the impact of project activities on the target group.



- 12 -
Alternatively, M&E activities may be contracted out to consultants with the MEU limiting
itself to supervisory roles.
(h) Top-down delivery of technical recommendations is not an appropriate way to meet the needs
of farmers--particularly those with varying resources and risk averse situations.
(i) Investment in strengthening research and extension services is jeopardized if the necessary
level of recurrent funding is not maintained to keep them operating effectively.
(j) When staff are assembled for Bank/IFAD supervision missions, all key disciplines in the
project should be addressed--especially if they show potential for problems. In this project,
earlier inclusion of staff with expertise in building design and construction as well as
procurement procedures would have significantly facilitated implementation.
11. Consulting Services
11.1  The recruitment of consultants for the project was contracted to Amex company of the UK.
Originally it was planned that AGRITEX would receive 66 man-months of consultancy while DR&SS
would receive 444 man-months. During the project, AGRITEX received a Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist, a Training Specialist and a Sociologist/Economist, together utilizing 63 man-months. DR&SS
received 12 consultants together utilizing 562 man-months. Major disciplines covered included soil
microbiology, agronomy, plant pathology, pneumatology, ecology, dairy husbandry, horticulture and
meat technology.
11.2  Although there were some personality and health problems, the impact of the consultants on
agricultural research in Zimbabwe was considerable. They arrived at a critical stage when many of the
DR&SS senior staff were leaving the service, and although originally recruited as advisers with mainly
station mandates, many adopted a research officer and/or an executive officer role, and filled the gaps
in the staff ranks. Besides actively conducting research programs, they provided mature guidance and
training needed by the inexperienced young scientists who were recruited to replace the retirees. For
example, the present station heads at Grasslands and Makoholi stations benefitted from interaction with
the livestock consultant who specifically trained them for management. At the end of the project, three
consultants remained in Zimbabwe and took positions on local terms. One other, who was retained to
continue research on horticulture and act as head of the Horticulture Research Station, was financed by
the Bank-supported Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1  The SAR was of good quality and served as a useful tool during project implementation. The
loan agreements were adequate and well-understood by all parties involved. However, the project lacked
a focal point where data could be collected and consolidated. Thus, information tended to be scattered
among the respective implementing agencies and no project-level picture emerged. A coordinating unit
(had there been one) or lead ministry could have served this purpose.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2
1. Introduction
Project Design
1.1    The project design was generally appropriate. However, the following weaknesses did not pass
unnoticed:
(a) Some immediate project objectives were not stated explicitly and precisely to enable
verification at a later date. For example, there was no specification of the number of staff
to be trained and their disciples;
(b) Initially, there were no work plans or other means of work scheduling which could offer
explicit, time-phased guidance to the Bank, the borrower and the project implementing
agencies during the initial crucial phase of the project;
(c) A project implementation management unit was not foreseen in the original project
document, to oversee the management of the project on a day-to-day basis and to follow up
on agreements reached between the Bank Mission and implementing agencies at the annual
supervision meetings;
(d) Although the roles and responsibilities of the Borrower and the Bank were well defined in
the IBRD and IFAD loan agreements, those of the project implementing agencies were not
clearly specified.
Strengths in Proiect Design
1.2    The project was designed to reflect a national program for extension and research as opposed to
an area specific program or project, in line with government policy to improve agricultural production
in the communal and resettlement areas throughout the country.
2. Maior Proiect Results
(a) Project Outputs
(i) Civil Works
2 The Government of Zimbabwe prepared a separate report entitled "Project Completion Report on the Zimbabwe National
Agricultural Extension and Research Project" dated November 1991. In response to a request from the World Bank,
Government identified portions of that report to be included as Part II of the Bank's Project Completion Report. Hence
this section contains those parts of the Government's PCR identified by Government for inclusion.



- 14 -
AGRITEX
2.1    When the project officially terminated on 30th September, 1991, 649 out of a total of 660 staff
houses for extension workers had been completed which was the department's full requirement. The
reduction in the number of houses from 660 to 649 was due to a duplication error on 11 housing sites.
However, new sites to replace these could not be identified and neither could the site plans be drawn
before the official completion of the project. All of the 254 war-damaged staff houses were rehabilitated
and one office block at Kotwa was completed.
DR & SS
2.2    During the first phase of the project, 223 staff houses were constructed. Of the 289 staff houses
and 4 office blocks earmarked for construction during the second phase of the project, only few houses,
including office blocks were at various stages of completion.
2.3    Some of the staff houses in Chiredzi, which were built during the first phase of the project have
developed some cracks mainly because of poor house designs, and bad construction standards. This is
a reflection of little or lack of interaction between the designing and constructing agencies, and the user
agency. Besides, there was no pressure on the part of the former agency to change the standard designs
when they were found to be faulty.
2.4    Construction of staff houses at Matopos, Grasslands and Henderson Research stations started very
late because of delays in producing surveying and civil drawings. Tenders for Grasslands and Henderson
were only awarded in February 1991 while the Matopos' job was taken up by the MPCNH in December,
1990, barely a year before termination of the project funding agreement. The 76 houses earmarked for
construction at Matopos Research Station have now been completed, save for electrical connection. At
Grasslands Research Station, only 16 houses out of the target 150 have been completed. The bulk of the
work will be completed well after the official project termination date. At Henderson Research Station,
8 out of 61 houses have been completed and the remaining 53 houses are to be completed after the project
termination date.
2.5    Although the number of houses built for both Agritex and DR & SS staff is not adequate when
compared with needs, they relieved the shortage of staff accommodation at the out stations, increased staff
morale and reduced staff turn over.
(ii) Vehicles and Equipment
AGRITEX
2.6    All in all, 335 vehicles and 1,600 motor cycles were purchased for Agritex. Most of these were
sold on loan to field officers and extension workers respectively, with the exception of 6 vehicles which
were handed over to the DR & SS and 30 which were retained as pool vehicles. 54 cycles have also been
retained in the pool. The project had envisaged the provision of 270 bicycles for use by extension
workers operating in the pilot schemes but this component was later taken over by an American
organization CILCA which provided 30 bicycles to the Wedza pilot scheme workers.



- 15 -
2.7    The vehicles and motorcycles provided under the project have had a positive effect on extension
staff mobility and morale. Agricultural extension workers are satisfied with the performance of the motor
cycles and are now able to service farmers in outlying areas more regularly and to attend agricultural
competitions such as the Groundnuts competition, Good farming and Maize Grower of the Year organized
for communal area farmers. Motorized extension officers are now able to carry bags of fertilizer and
seeds to the communal areas for demonstration trials. Extension supervisors are now able to supervise
extension workers more regularly and to program their extension visits systematically.
2.8    Field staff are, however, constrained by the limited subsistence and travel allowances from
Government which, in most cases, bears little or no relationship to the large distances the staff are
expected to cover. For example, extension supervisors with a limited monthly mileage of 600 km are
having difficulty maintaining supervision schedules and extension workers with a limited mileage of 300
km per month are having problems in servicing small scale farmers on regular basis. Also, because of
shortage of spare parts, some field staff are unable to service their vehicles or motor bikes regularly.
However, despite these problems, vehicles sold to AGRITEX staff are well maintained since members
take personal pride in the maintenance of these vehicles.
Equipment
2.9    The project purchased audio visual equipment for the training branch and computers which are
being used to store and process information for the Management Systems Branch. Audio visual
equipment replaced the old equipment which were no longer serviceable. However, both the computers
and the audio visual equipment are having less than expected impact because they were not accompanied
by a full complementary program for training AGRITEX staff to use them especially on the analytical
techniques.
DR & SS
2.10   2 water bowsers, 45 vehicles, 4 caravans, 38 motor cycles, 9 tractors and 2 trailers were
purchased by the project for the DR & SS. These have all been received by the department.
2.11   Although the vehicles were allocated to the department as pool vehicles and not for resale to the
staff, research officers are now able to monitor projects regularly in the station units which are about 15
km away from the research stations and to travel more frequently to the communal areas to carry out on-
farm research and research on demonstration trials. However, because of the limited travel and
subsistence budget provided by Government, and shortage of spare parts to service their vehicles, officers
are unable to carry out their tasks effectively.
Research Equipment
2.12   As a result of the delay in submitting bids for equipment, most of the equipment ordered by the
DR & SS have not yet been received. This is greatly affecting research programs since the department
lacks the crucial equipment. Most of the equipment will now be received well after the project
completion date.



- 16 -
(iii) Training. Fellowships and Study Tours
AGRITEX
2.13   A consultant successfully prepared a training needs analysis and designed appropriate training
course for each category of staff. A total of 26 courses were designed and training manuals and curricula
developed and handed over to Agritex. However, funds provided for fellowships and study tours only
benefitted few staff members.
DR & SS
2.14   Very few research officers benefitted from the project funds. The funds were mainly used to
benefit the Department's directorate staff.
2.15   Although consultants were recruited to train research officers, they ended up performing research
tasks because of the shortage of operational staff in the department. Some pedologists were trained
locally during 1986 using project funds.
(iv) Linkages Between Research and Extension
2.16   These have increased greatly because of the establishment of COFRE (Committee for on Farm
Research and Extension). Since the establishment of this committee, technical constraints affecting the
communal farming sector are being identified and tackled by both AGRITEX and the DR & SS in a
complementary manner.
2.17   Joint AGRITEX and DR & SS workshops are being organized at national, regional and local
levels and these have produced useful technical plans and recommendations for improving agricultural
production in the communal areas. However, COFRE's operations are constrained by shortage of funds.
Unless Government can provide sufficient funds to sustain the operations of the committee, the latter may
not be able to carry out its mandate.
(v) Agritex Pilot Schemes
2.18   Studies from  the following pilot schemes contributed greatly to the improvement in the
formulation by AGRITEX of appropriate extension strategies suitable for different areas, clients and
technologies:
(a)  The Training and Visit scheme (T & V);
(b) The Master Farmer Training scheme. This is a successful program which has been ongoing
before the inception of the project;
(c) Radio listening groups (Mass Media) scheme; and
(d) The Wedza Farmer extension promoter scheme.



- 17 -
Details of the pilot scheme
2.19   Radio Listening Group.  This scheme was carried out in Chimhanda communal areas
(Mashonaland Central) and Nzwazi communal areas (Matabeleland South). A practice Adoption Survey
amongst the members of the groups is still underway to determine the effectiveness of the radio as a
means of communicating and achieving the adoption of recommended practices. The survey will also
assess the cost effectiveness of this means of extension services.
2.20 Training and Visits (I & V) Extension Strateg=. This strategy was tried out in the Shurugwi and
Chiwundura Communal areas in the Midlands Province using the group approach and contact to spread
the extension messages. The results of the baseline studies carried out during the period 1983 - 1991
reveal that membership of the T & V based groups has steadily increased. On average, the percentage
of farmers receiving loans has gone up and the adoption rate in the usage of fertilizer has slightly
increased. This scheme was criticized by some farmers who contended that Agritex was transmitting
inappropriate and outdated messages.
2.21   A review of this project by Agritex M & E section, is in progress and until it is completed the
above conclusions should be regarded as provisional.
2.22   Wedza Farmer Extension Promoter (PEP) Proiect. Table 6, which illustrates the changes that
have taken place since 1982 in the project area reveal that there has been a moderately favorable change
in crops other than small grains. There has also been an increase in the membership of cattle farmer
groups and the formation of savings clubs. The scheme has also witnessed a decrease in the number of
cattle sold per farmer, though the number of cattle fed increased steadily. The formation of savings clubs
also increased but the average banked member was more or less stagnant.
2.23   An overall review of this project is underway and until this review is completed, no definite
conclusions can be drawn regarding the desirability of the wide use of the Farmer Extension Promotion
concept.
2.24   As can be noted from the above schemes, there are certain features which appear to be very
favorable, however their impact cannot be assessed to a reasonable degree of certainty pending the
completion of the review exercise. Another factor to be taken into consideration during the review is the
extent to which the limited mileage allowed the extension workers is constraining the effective supervision
of the scheme.
(vii) Institution Building
AGRITEX
2.25   Consultancy. The significant result of the consultancy was the acquisition of IBM personal
computers and the introduction of certain programs, notably the Statistical Package for Social Science
(SPSS). The monitoring and evaluation staff were trained in the use of SPSS, Wordstar and Enable
packages to design questionnaires, plan and carry out surveys, analyze data and produce reports for the
evaluation of different projects. AGRITEX as the institution providing vital services to small scale
farmers in the communal and resettlement areas has been greatly strengthened by the establishment of the
Management Services Branch and the re-organization of its Technical Services Branch. Although the
former has not been effective enough in providing the Directorate of Agritex with operational policy



- 18 -
guidance or advice, the Branch has been very influential in providing data on farm management,
production economics and the adoption rates of extension advice or innovations by the small scale farmers
in the communal and resettlement areas. Through its Technical Services Branch, AGRITEX is now able
to systematically program its national extension services and provide specialized technical information
to field staff.
DR & SS
2.26   Manuals were produced and these have strengthened the department's organizational,
administrative and accounting structures and enhanced its ability to prepare equipment specification bids
acceptable to the World Bank or any other donor agency. The department also received training in
computer programming techniques, although it must be mentioned that the computer equipment will only
arrive towards the end of the project.
2.27   One of the consultants introduced new technology called "pot irrigation" suitable for dry areas
such as Chiredzi, Omay, etc. This has brought new insight into the research methodology of the DR &
SS.
2.28   The capacity of the department has also been strengthened through the provision of staff houses,
vehicles and research equipment. However, since these fall short of the Department's requirements as
identified when the project was initiated, more funds will have to be provided for the purchase of
additional vehicles and research equipment and the construction of additional staff houses.
(b) Project Impact
2.29   Although it is difficult at present to have an accurate assessment of the impact of the project since
the project has just terminated, information gathered on the project suggests that the project succeeded
in building a national agricultural extension and research capacity which has contributed greatly to an
increase in agricultural production and farm incomes in the communal and resettlement areas. There has
also been a great improvement throughout the whole country in the transmission of agricultural
information on technical packages and farm management practices to small scale farmers in these areas.
The project has also promoted staff retention, especially in the outlying operational areas.
Cost-effectiveness
2.30   The project was not implemented cost effectively due to a number of factors such as insufficient
Government contribution, delayed start, lack of project co-ordination and poor management and poor
housing design. This had the effect of increasing the project costs in Z$ terms, which was exercebated
by the devaluation of the Z$. At the start of the project, housing costs were as low as Z$9,000 or
US$9,900 per unit but most of the houses were completed at a minimum cost of Z$38,000 or US$20,000.
Improvements in the original design of the houses as well as increases in costs of building materials also
contributed to increasing housing costs.



- 19 -
Project Relevance
2.31  In view of the above-mentioned project results, it can be concluded that the project objectives are
still significant in their qualitative form, and continue to be worth pursuing.
3. Bank Performance
3.1   The Bank was very flexible in its operations, for example, it allowed the MPC & NH to contract
work to private local contractors to speed up construction although this was not included in the original
project document; it allowed project funds to be used to import building materials such as cement,
procure vehicles for contractors in a bid to speed up the civil works program which was lagging behind
and granting three extensions to the project agreement to allow for the completion of the various project
components. The Bank was expedient in disbursing project funds, it was always forthcoming with its two
thirds of the annual contribution funds pledged in the loan agreement. Reports produced by the Bank's
supervisory Mission gained importance during phase II of the project because they gave some useful
recommendations which improved the implementation of the project. The Bank is to be commended for
granting the three extensions to the project.
Weaknesses of the Bank
3.2   The calibre of some of the members of the World Bank team who appraised the project fell short
of the Government's expectations. For example, the World Bank team was led by a Transport Economist
who did not serve much purpose since he lacked technical expertise on agricultural extension services and
research. Also, one of the Bank's team members was an Agricultural Adviser who had very little, if any,
experience on agricultural development in Africa, and was therefore not well conversant with Zimbabwe's
needs or situation. This also led the Bank team to turn down a proposal put forward by the DR & SS
during the formulation of the project to put up several small research stations in the communal areas in
order to be closer to the farmers because it was assumed then that the department did not have capacity
to take up additional work in the communal areas. Instead, the Bank team was only interested in
strengthening few existing research stations whose impact on the communal areas was very minimal.
This also put the Zimbabwean team in a background position in terms of contributing actively to the
project formulation. The Bank provided funds to purchase research equipment and computers but did
not provide technical assistance to train the user staff on how to operate them.
3.3   The Bank and IFAD were supposed to contribute equal amounts into a special off-shore account
for quick disbursement on project procurements. IFAD never paid its contribution into this account.
However, the Bank finally made its contribution in December 1984 and the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe,
due to lack of understanding on the operation of the account, converted the amount deposited by the
IBRD into Z$s, thereby rendering it of no use in the purchase of items in foreign currency. Furthermore,
the operational agencies were not familiar with the account's draw-down procedures, and MFEPD's
assistance in this area was minimal. As a result, it took time before the account became active. The first
draw down was for the financing of Fellowship and Study Tours for both AGRITEX and DR & SS staff
which amounted to US$5,025,12 as at 30th November, 1990. By 14th January, 1991 an additional draw-
down of USS267,974,11 was incurred for payment of computers and equipment for the DR & SS, giving
a cumulative draw-down of US$272,999,23. The special account has not been topped up since then.
Had information been disseminated properly and timeously, this account could have facilitated the speedy
purchase of items requiring foreign currency without having to approach the Bank in Washington for



- 20 -
direct disbursement and would probably be fully drawn by now. IFAD may also have paid its
contribution by now. It is however, not clear whether IFAD will honor its commitment.
Lessons Learned
(i) Appraisal missions would perform better if they are acquainted with the subject under
consideration and problems be:ng experienced by the borrower country;
(ii) There is need for dialogue between borrower and financier on an equal partnership basis from
the beginning; and
(iii) Where special accounts other than those already part of the borrower country's system are to
be set up, the financiers should ensure proper and timeous dissemination of information
regarding the account's operations to avoid undue delays in the utilization of the account.
4. Borrower's Performance
Weaknesses
4.1    Throughout the project life, the performance of Government was far below that of the Bank.
Government was not properly organized to implement the project and was not firm on decision making,
resulting in inconsistences in its own policies.
4.2    Technically, since the implementing agencies were not familiar with the World Bank's
procedures, they had problems in submitting their re-imbursement claims and procurement documents.
MFEPD did not perform any better mainly because of staff turnover and hence the Ministry could not
actively and timeously assist these agencies. As a result, re-imbursements were either not submitted
regularly or were not submitted at all and Government therefore lost a lot of funds which should have
been re-imbursed from the project fund.
4.3    Undue delay on the project was caused by the insistence of the MPC & NH to construct all the
staff houses country-wide when it had no capacity to do so. This weakness was further compounded by
lack of transport for the Ministry to ferry materials to the project sites, as well as carry out supervisory
functions on both direct and private contractors' work.
4.4   Inconsistencies in Government policy shows on the part of the borrower. The shifting of the
procurement function for vehicles and motor cycles from CMED to CPA and then back to CMED lead
to unnecessary confusion and delay in the implementation of the project. The payment of duty has also
delayed the allocation of motor cycles to officers. The borrower failed to make effective use of the
foreign currency component and line of credit made available by the project. There was a delay in the
utilization of project funds due to the lack of capacity by the implementing agencies, poor project design
and lack of a project co-ordinating unit to oversee project progress on a periodic basis. The housing
component suffered from poor designs which had to be changed during the course of implementation to
suit the user departments' requirements.  Project costs therefore rose during implementation.
Accountability during the implementation of the project was minimal if not non existent. MFEPD's
assistance or corrective action to the operational agencies in this regard was generally poor. Time was
also wasted during implementation because of poor co-ordination among the implementing agencies.



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Title                             Purpose             Year of     Amount        Status
Approval    (million)
- Small Farm Credit Project       On-farm credit       1982      SDR 27.9    Completed
(Cr. 1291-ZIM)                   and institutional
support
- Rural Afforestation Project     Forestry             1983      SDR 6.8    Completed
(Cr 1368-ZIM)
- Agricultural Credit and Export  On-farm credit       1990      US$ 36.3      On-going
Promotion Project                processing
(Ln 3063-ZIM)                    facilities and
institutional
support
- Forest Resources Management     Forestry support     1990      US$ 14.5      On-going
and Development Project
(Ln 3179-ZIM)



- 22 -
Table 2. Proect Timetabl
Activity                    Date Planned            Date Revised             Actual Date
- Identification              April 1981                                      April 1981
- Post-Identification           -                                             September 1981
- Preparation                 November 1981                                   November 1981
- Appraisal                   September 1982                                  September 1982
- Post-Appraisal                                                              December 1982
- Loan Negotiation            April 1983                                      April 1983
- Board Approval              April 1983                                      July 1983
- Loan Signature                                                              August 1983
- Loan Effectiveness          October 1983                                    November 1983
- Project Completion          March 1988             March 1989
March 1990
March 1991
September 1991           September 1991
- Loan Closing                September 1988         September 1989
September 1990
September 1991           September 1991
Source: Project Files.



- 23 -
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
............ Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .
IBRD                IFAD               TOTAL
(US$ m)            (SDR m) 3            (US$ m)
A. Total Cumulative
Appraisal Estimate                      13.1                16.7                31.1
Projected Actual                        10.9                11.5                27.2
Actual as % of Estimate                  86                  68                  87
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACrUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY84    FY85       FY86       FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90   FY91   FY92
Appraisal Estimate (USS m)    1.5       5.1       9.0       11.8      13.1      13.1         -       -        -
Actual (USS m)                0.19       1.5      2.13      2.45      5.02      6.65      7.53    9.47   10.90
Actual as % of Estimate        12        29        23        20        38        50
Source: MIS and IFAD disbursement statement.
3/ The actual disburwements in SDR terms are relatively lower than those in USS terms because of the depreciation of the dollar againrt
the SDR. At the time of appraisal I USS = SDR 0.930; at the beginning of December 1991, 1 USS - SDR 0.724.



- 24 -
Table 4. Proiect Implementation
Indicator                                 Unit      Appraisal     Actual    Actual as % of
|         I  Estimate                    Estimate
A. Extension Program (AGRITEX)
(a) Civil Works
- Staff Houses:
. New                                  No.          660          633            96
. Repairs                              No.         254           206            81
- Offices                                No.            I           -              -
(b) Vehicles and Eguipment
- 4-W Drive                               No.          22            22           100
- Motorcycles                             No.        1,254        1,600           128
- Pick-ups *                              No.           19          327          1721
- Mobile Units                            No.           3            -             -
(c) Technical Asst. & Consult.           m/m            66           63            95
(d) FellowshiDs & Study Tours            m/m           198            4             2
B. Research Prozram (DR&SS)
(a) Civil Wo-rks
- Staff Houses                           No.          585          551            94
- Offices                                No.            2            5           250
- Flats/Bachelor Quarters                No.            0           10             -
- Laboratory Blocks                      No.            3            1            33
- Rehabilitation Works                   No.            0            5             -
(b) Vehicles and Equipment
- 4-W Drive                              No.           14           45           321
- Lorries                                No.            1            2           200
- Pick-ups *                             No.           22           -              -
- Motorcycles                            No.           38           38           100
- Tractors                               No.            5           11           220
(c) Technical Asst. & Consult.           mt/mr        444           562           127
(d) Fellowships & Study Tours            m/m           384         n.a.4         n.a.
Source: AGRITEX, CMED, DR&SS, MPCNH.
* The need to increase the number of pick-ups was due to the increasingly serious budget crisis faced by government during the 1980s.
This crisis meant that AGRITEX was not given a budget allocation that would allow procurement of vehicles. Given the importance
of transport to the effective dissemination of information to farmers, the project agreed to supply the necessary vehicles.
I   n.a.  Data not avaitabte.



Table 5. Proiect Costs and Financine
(Page 1)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
............ .SAR Estimate                 ...  Projected Actual .
Local          Foreign         Total           Local     |   Foreign    I       Total
A. Non-Incremental:
Extension Program:
- Recurrent Costs                     71.2            17.8           89.0            91.5           22.9             114.4
Research Program:
- Recurrent Costs                     37.7            9.4            47.1            45.0            11.3             56.3
Total:                            108.9           27.2           136.1           136.5           34.2             170.7
B. Incemental:
Extension Program:                                                                                                                       n
- Capital Costs                        7.0            6.6             13.6            8.6            8.0              16.6
- Recurrent Costs                      8.6            2.1             10.7            4.5            1.1               5.6
Sub-total:                         15.6            8.7            24.3            13.1            9.1             22.2
Research Program:
- Capital Costs                        1.1            8.9             10.0            7.6            6.2              13.8
- Recurent Costs                       5.4            1.3             6.7             2.2            0.5               2.7
Sub-total:                          6.5           10.2            16.7            9.8             6.7              16.5
Total:                             22.1           18.9            41.0            22.9           15.8              38.7
C. Front End Fee:                       -             0.1             0.1              -             0.1               0.1
TOTAL COSTS:                      131.0           46.2           177.2           159.4           50.1             209.5
Source: SAR; AGRITEX; DR&SS; CMED; MPCNH.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
(Page 2)
B. Project Financing
......... . . . .. Planned  ... .... . .... ... . . . Revised  ... ...... ... . . . . Projected  Actual 
Source:                                IBRD        IFAD        Total       IBRD    |   IFAD        Total      IBRD       IFAD         Total
A. IBRD/IFAD                          (USS m)    (SDR m)    (USS m)       (USS m)     (SDR m)    (USS m)   (USS m)   (SDR m)         (USS m)
1. Civil Works                          5.70       6.49        13.55       7.50         8.78       17.77       5.74       5.74        14.38
2. Vehicles and Equipment               1.00       2.04         2.35        2.20        3.57        5.20       2.66       3.07         6.81
3. Consultant Services                  1.90       2.32         4.50        1.90        2.32        4.50       2.32       2.33         5.52
4. Fellowships and Study Tours          0.50       0.45         1.19        0.50        0.65        1.19       0.03       0.08         0.12
5. Incremental Operating Costs          3.10       3.99         7.35        0.10        0.17        0.28       0.10       0.17         0.25
6. Project Preparation                    -        0.07         0.08         -          0.07        0.08         -        0.07         0.08
7. Fee                                  0.43         -          0.03        0.03          -         0.03       0.01        -           0.01
8. Unallocated                          0.87        1.14        2.05        0.87        1.14        2.05         -         -             -
Sub-total:                          13.10       16.70       31.10       13.10       16.70       31.10      10.86      11.46        27.17
B. GOZ                                                        146.10                               146.10                             182.29
TOTAL:                                                     177.20                              177.20                             209.46
Source: WB and IFAD Loan Agreements; disbursement records; and mission estimates.



Table 6. Priect Results
.... .... ..      19.. 1 1ai   .. . . . . . .  .  .    . .  .  .  .  . .  .   19SM/7    .. . .  . .  .  .  .      .  .  . .  .  .  . .  . 1990191  ...     .  . .  .  .  .
Natid N T_   |      Tea       | (S)CA   |  Yild CA         N _awmu TO_j        Tel        | (S) CA       YieW CA       Na_T_ Taal          TOW          (s) CA       Yied CA
(*1000)            CA                       (MI            (halo" 00)         CA                                       (Mt-OCO)           CA                        04h)
(WOOD)                                        ,       I      OMt8                                                      (116-O00l
A. Ceep PladmdL
-''',                                1.a0o            595            33           0.6           1.094            628            57           0.6            1.586            1,019          64           1.1
- 5z_                                67              50            75           0.3              52              40           77           0.2              68               51           75            0.5
-Syab-                                 92               7             a           0.8             95             0.9             1           0.4              97                2            2           0.8
-    _o                               III              95            86           0.4              79             55            70           0.3             107               s0           75           0.4
-Cdl.                                 135              27            20           0.5             280             83            30           0.6             261              138           53           0.7
3. Ilv        P_ _o                                       196142                                        199190                                       (S)
i CA.                                                   (00                                          ('00)                                      1_e
- C   b                                                    3,240                                        3.,m                                          17
-pip                                                        84                                            "9
-Sheep                                                      297                                           412                                         39
1.203                                        2.367                                        97
Soup= AGgrrEX.



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 1)
Loan Agreement Section    Subject                                                   Status
4.01 (b)                  The borrower shall maintain, in real terms, the           Largely complied. Only in last 2 years did
amounts budgeted for carrying out the existing           GOZ budgetary allocations decline slightly
extension and research program as specified by the       in real terms.
Project, and provide all the necessary resources for
the carrying out of MAO's Agricultural Education
Program.
4.02                      The borrower shall take all the necessary action by      Complied.
not later than January 1. 1984, to change the
composition of its Agricultural Research Council to
ensure that the communal area farmers are directly
represented.
co
4.03 (a)                  The Borrower shall employ training consultants in         Complied.
order to assist AGRITEX in its staff training
program.
(b)                  The Borrower may employ appropriate consultants in        Complied.
order to assist DR&SS in the review of its
organizational, administrative and accounting
structures.
(c)                 In order to assist AGRITEX in monitoring and              Complied.
evaluation, the Borrower shall employ a M&E
specialist.



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 2)
Loan Agreement Section         Subject                                                                                                 Status
4.03 (d)                        In order to assist DR&SS in the formal establishment and maintenance of an on-the-job training system  Complied.
within its organization, the Borrower shaU employ a training officer.
(e)                        In order to assist DR&SS in carrying out of research, in inter alia, management, plant breeding, plant  Complied.
protection, farm systems, horticulture, cotton, agronomy, and pathology, the Borrower shall employ
appropriate specialists.
(g)                        The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that the necessary permanent staff of the        Complied.
Borrower, who shall work with the officer and specialists referred to in 4.03 (c), (d) and (e) are
appointed to the established position.
4.05 (a)                        The Borrower shall take all necessary action to reduce the training period for students at agricultural  Complied.
institutes from three to two years by the beginning of the academic year startine September 1983.
(b)                       The Borrower shall ensure that the starting salaries in its civil service for graduates of the two-year  Complied.
program referred to in (a) above shall be equal to the salaries of those who shall have graduated from the
three-year program.
(c)                       The Borrower shall review the remuneration packages of AGRITEX and DR&SS staff by not later than        Efforts were made to improve
June 30, 1984, and by not later than July 1, 1985, introduce a system for making adjustments in the    staff salaries and conditions of
remuneration packages for AGRITEX  nd DR&SS staff to ensure their ability to recruit and retain        service but the improvement
qualified and experienced staff.                                                                       were not adequae to stop many
key staff from resigning to take
up more lucrative jobs
elswhere.



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 3)
Loan Agrcement Section           Subject                                                                                      Status
4.07                             The Borrower shaHl through MOA, establish not later than January 1. 198, and thereafter      Complied.
maintain a Management Service Branch within AGRITEX.
4.08                              AGRrTEX shall: (i) carry out a review of the Organization of its Technical Services         (i)  Complied.
Division; (ii) carry out a review of the Provincial Structure of extension field services;
(iii) prepare time scheodules of visits by extension workers with farmers, farmer groups,   (ii)  Complied.
supervisors, subject matter specialists and training personnel, with a view of increasing
their effectiveness.                                                                        (iii) Largely complied.
4.09                             The Borrower shaUl cause AGRITEX to submit to the Bank/Fund for review and                   Complied.
comments, proposals for carrying out pilot schemes as stated in the Project.
4.10                              Subject to recommendations of the review as stated in Section 4.03 (b), DR&SS shall         Complied.                                0
establish by not later than September 30. 1984, a Unit within its organization, with
responsibilities to coordinate the on-farm research program for the communal area.
4.12                              The Borrower shall, through MNS, cause CMED to administer loans to AGRITEX and              Complied and later a Revolving Fund
DR&SS extension and research staff for the purchase of vehicles to be financed out of the   was set up.
proceeds of the Loan, under normal CMED terms.



Tabk 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 4)
Loan Agreement Section   Subject                                                                       Status
4.13 (a)                AGRITEX and DR&SS shaU prepare and submit to the Borrower, the Bank            Complied.
and Fund for their review and comments, Work Plans covering the period of
12 months commencing on the following July 1.
(c)                 The Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall hold annual review meetings on       Complied.
each such Work Plan.
4.15 (a)                The Borrower shal take or, through MOA cause AGRITEX and DR&SS to              Largely complied with.
take such action as shal be necessary to acquire, all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall bc required for the construction of houses for the
Project by not later than May 1. 1984.
5.01 (c)                The Borrower shaU have the accounts in respect of the Project audited by       Poor compliance. The Project has been submitting only Project
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Fund and submit the       Accounts in the form of 'Statement of Expenditure' for each
auditor's certified report to the Bank and the Fund by not later than nine    fiscal year up to and including FY 1988189. Situation has now
months after the end of each year.                                            improved and aU due audit certificates have now been received.



Table S. Use of Bank Resourc,
(Page 1)
A. Staff Inputs
To be completed by World Bank Washington
B. Missions
Sugke of Project Cycle                    Serttby           Month/Year    |      No. of Persons         Period in Ficid          Specialization         Perfonnance        Types of Pmbletra
(weeks)              Represented'              Rating
Identification                             IFAD                 4/SI                                          4
Post-Idenification                         IFAD                 9/81
Preparation                              FAO/CP                I/ISI                   6                       7                A, E, C, T, H
Appraisal                                  WB                   9/82                   5                      2                   A, E, X, T
Post-Appraisal                           WB/IFAD               11/82                   2                     1.5                     A, T
Supervision I                               WiB                 7/3                    1                      1.5                     E                      I                   None
Supervision 2                            WB/IFAD                9/13                   6                      2                   E, A, X, F                 I                   None
Supervision 3                               Wi                  2/84                   2                      1.5                    E, X                    I                   None
Supervision 4                            WB/IFAD                6/84                   6                      2                   A, E, X, F                 I                   None
Supervision 5                            WBIIFAD               11/84                   4                       1                   E, F, X                   I                   Nonw
Supervision 6                               WiB                 2185                   1                     0.5                      E                      I                   Other
Supervision 7                            WB/IFAD                6/15                   6                      1.5                 A, E, X, F                 I                   Other
Supervision S                              WI                  10/15                   4                      2                   A, E, X, F                 2
/ Key:
A - Agricutuirt; E- Economist; C - Cooperative Specialist; H - Architect; T - Agricultural Educationid; X - Extension; F   Funncial Specialist; P - Procuretent Specialist;
R - Agricultural Resach Specialist.
Source: Project Files.



Table S. Use of Bank Resource.
(Page 2)
A. Staff Inputs
To be conplited by World Bank Washington
B. Miasions
Stage of Poject Cyce                |      Sent by           Month/Year          No. of Persons        Period in Field         Specialization   |   Perfornance        Types of Problems
I _                                               (weeks)             Represented"             Rating
Supervision 9                                WB                 2/86                  4                      2                  A, E, X, T                2
Supervision 10                               WB                 6/86                  2                      2                    A, E,                   2
Supervision I                                WIB               10/6                   3                      3                   A, E, X                  2
Supervision 12                               WB                 2/S7                  2                      2                    A, E                    2
Supervision 13                            WB/IFAD               10/87                 3                      2                   A, P. F                  2
Supervision 14                            WB/IFAD               3/l8                  3                      2                   A, X, F                  2
Supervision 15                            WB/IFAD               1/89                  3                      2                   A, X, F                  2
Supervision 16                               WB                 9/t9                  4                      2                  A, P, R, X                3
Supervision 17                            WB/IFAD               2/90                  4                      1                  A, E, F, P                2
Supervision IS                               WB                 11/90                 4                      2                  A, P, R, X                2
Supervision 19                               WB                 4/91                   1                    0.5                     F
Supervision 20                               WB                 5/91                  2                      2                    A, P                    2
Supervision21                             WB/IFAD               11/91                 4                      3                  E, P, R, X
Project Conpletion Repoti                  FAO/CP               11/91                 1                      3                      F






IBRD 1700
ZIMBABWE
COMMUNAL AREAS AND NATURAL REGIONS                                                                                  V
NATURAL REGIONS                        Mo1of Rogd,
F. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~   0
flb    n hon,io For n.g 8. on                 In.or.nlt Ro( . ' o '.,
(18. roiny pentod,/I.oo  l     *  0  M1oj, Ci,i.I. T.                      I>                     - 
160-13 ,oov poeos./..-o,o                                                                                                                                                 NS{i)\\/ S\\\R
S.   otooss Fo-.nq R.gion                                                                                                                                                       ''
(6 0.800,.-. -m,.11r,I Iyd
LI/  J  S.O.i ote-   F-'                                                                                          SO Utq Roos-n
1>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
COMMUNAL AREAS
20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0-
MOMM    IMBABWE!  100                                           3                        5 .-
BOTSWANA        N.        / %22?ID-J 






IBRD 16940R
r    mj'_           .m._                                                                                                                                                    APRIL I
ob CtJ~~>  -A  ri                                             I M  B A  B w  E
I. ;<7                 __ :                 AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH STATIONS
'    / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~              
?IR  ib  ^8; byiyC /                fr  *.                                                                    \. 
FWC WC-7. C--C OW .0b h0-                                                                                                    .    MOZAMBIQUE
_. IV. p0015                                                                                                  L--- 8.0 -  yCC07  IP..  0
-btWh _$ b 1 00 'C- 01 o*    I   ,OI C   d . . I . MC-
Z Ai.  M V I
e < A i X ~~~~~~~~~~~,,.,                                                   .
Fall                                                                                          SE.J
BOTSWANA                           MATAB  E    N D
\. ~~~~N    O R T                                                                                                              M A NI   A L G6 D 
I-HENDERSON RESEARC ISTATION    D      ,             \? =  
20' 2.GRASSLANDS RESEARCH STATION                               l        b                                                                                         2
3.HARARE RESEARCH CENTERt                                                                       , .
4 COTTON RfSEARCH INSTITUTE
5 MATOPOS RESEARCH STATION             _vmt_                             5
6 MAKAHOLI EXPERIMENT STATION               T. Ate                         9        >                      t}                U       t                  t       8 1
7. CHI REDZI RESEARCH STATIDN               sou                                                                >o               VIN9       
8.CHISUM8UNUE EXPERIMENT STATION {.I<r>rXs)r.A
SABI8 VALLJEY EXPERIMENT STATION (cbil                 <t                            =     < _-           _     s >;                 >1    
10' HORTICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTER(,                                                       -Fhl            -                        7                  /
I 1 RHODESaINYANGA EXPERIMENT STATION   MATABELEL         ND   
12 CHIPINGA COrFEE RESEARCH STATION                                   A T A  B    L E                             _D,S       r                          r
13.PANMURE EXPERIMENT STATION                   N  l   <\\;  
14.GWEBI VARtIETY TESTING CENTER                             _t                       TH '    f 
15 N1UANETSI EXPER111MENT STATION Ilesd) gx\>t9\.
16.TJOLOTJO EXPERlIMENT STATION (Il_ mkdod)_4S \*        
17NYAMIANDHLOVUEXFERIMIENTSTATIDN(I lli,k,l't-\dm w)      
-22-  NY4MeETn  0    le              o                           BIOTSWAN                                                                                HND SUIA ; Chi IWLHADSI
fso     '     S~~O     '      1.0                                                                         _                             AINFr'".o
SO U TH                                                      P FR V|zCAL W <_""olc^ UN,OARIES
26'                                     2t                                                                                      ,g    INTERtNATMAL 0UARIES



