Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3465a-ZIM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENI
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$13.1 MILLION
TO ZIMBABWE
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJ:
June 15, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



/
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  =  Z$0.91
Z$1.00 = US$1.09
SDR 1.00 = US$1.07867
ABBREVIATIONS
AGRITEX     -   Department of Agricultural Technical
Services and Extension
CART        -   Communal Area Research Trials
CMED        -   Central Mechanical Engineering Department
CONEX       -   Department of Conservation and Extension
DEVAG       -   Department of Agricultural Development
FSR         -   Farming Systems Research
MOA         -   Ministry of Agriculture
PSC         -   Public Service Commission
R&SS        -   Department of Research and Specialist
Services
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower           Government of Zimbabwe
Amount             US$13.1 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms             Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace with
variable interest rates.
Purpose            The proposed project would support the national agricul-
tural extension and research programs by strengthening
the institutions and providing the necessary facilities
and equipment. The project would substantially increase
agricultural production and farm incomes in the communal
areas. It would also sustain the performance of the com-
mercial agricultural subsector.
The potential risks relate to uncertainty with regard to
adequate budgetary allocations for extension and research
and to staffing. The Government would be required to
maintain, in real terms, its present budgetary allocation
as well as assume an increasing share of the incremental
expenditures. The extension and research organizations
also would execute a training program, and the project
provides for technical assistance in key areas to support
permanent staff in established positions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Project Cost Summary
(1983/84 - 1986/87)
Estimated Costs                                     Local  Foreign  Total
US$ Million ----
A. Non-Incremental a/
Extension Program
Directorate & Administration           1.5      0.2      1.7
Field Services                        46.0    11.5    57.5
Technical Services                     6.4      1.7     8.1
In-Service Training                    4.1      1.0     5.1
Pilot Schemes                          0.1      -       0.1
Sub-total                         58.1    14.4    72.5
Research Program
Directorate & Administration           1.5      0.3      1.8
Livestock & Pasture Research          10.8      2.8    13.6
Crop Research                          9.8      2.4    12.2
Research Services                      8.0      2.0    10.0
Sub-total                         30.1     7.5    37.6
Non-incremental Base Costs            88.2    21.9   110.1
Price Contingencies                 20.8      5.1    25.9
Total Non-Incremental                    109.0    27.0   136.0
B. Incremental b/
Extension Program c/
Management Services Branch             0.3      0.2     0.5
Rationalization of Field Serv.
Transport                            0.6      1.1     1.7
Housing                              5.0      3.3     8.3
Recurrent Costs                      4.6      1.1     5.7
In-Service Training                    1.0      1.3     2.3
Pilot Schemes                          0.8      0.4      1.2
Sub-total                         12.3     7.4    19.7
Research Program
Org. & Admin. (Cons. Serv.)            -        0.1     0.1
Eliminating Backlog                    2.5      1.4     3.9
Expansion                              4.2      1.9     6.1
In-Service Training                    0.2      -       0.2
Tech. Assistance & Cons.               -        3.3     3.3
Fellowships & Study Tours              -        0.7     0.7
Sub-total                          6.9     7.4    14.3
Incremental Base Costs                  19.2    14.8    34.0
Physical Contingencies                   1.2      1.0      2.2
Price Contingencies                      5.5      3.3      8.7
Total Incremental Costs                   25.9    19.9    44.9
Total (A + B)                                134.8    46.1   180.9
Less Taxes and Duties                          3.8     -        3.8
131.0    46.1   177.1
Plus Front End Fee                             -       0.1      0.1
Total Financing Required                     131.0    46.2   177.2
a/  Non-incremental costs are equal to what the Government allocated
to these activities in the 1982/83 budget maintained in real terms
over four years.
b/  Refers to costs over and above the non-incremental costs.
c/  Technical assistance, consultancies, fellowships and study tours
have been allocated to the various functional categories.
April 21, 1983



-iii -
Financing Plan                                             Local Foreign Total
----US$ Million----
IBRD                                4.8    8.2   13.0
IFAD                                6.7   11.3   18.0
Government                        119.5   26.6  146.1
TOTAL                          131.0   46.2  177.2
Estimated                                             US$ Million
Disbursements
BANK FY84   FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual           1.6    3.6       3.9      2.8      1.2
Cumulative       1.6    5.2       9.1    11.9    13.1
Appraisal
Report                   Number 4305-ZIM.
Rate of Return           Not applicable
Maps                     IBRD 17003 -- Communal Areas and Natural Regions.
IBRD 16940 -- Research Centers, Stations and
Substations.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO ZIMBABWE
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Zimbabwe for US$13.1 million equivalent, at variable interest
rates, payable in 20 years, including five years grace to help finance a
National Agricultural Extension and Research Project. The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is expected to contribute US$18.0
million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The first Bank economic mission to independent Zimbabwe visited
the country in September 1980. A Country Economic Memorandum (Report Num-
ber 3234a-ZIM) was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1981.
This description is based on that memorandum and on information obtained on
subsequent missions.
3.        Zimbabwe is a landlocked country of about 390,000 sq km, bordered
by Mozambique on the east, Botswana on the southwest, Zambia on the
northwest and South Africa on the south. The population as of December
1981, was estimated to be 7.7 million, 97 percent of whom are Africans. 1
The remainder consists of about 170,000 Europeans, 10,000 Asians and 23,000
people of mixed origin. The growth rate of the African population is esti-
mated to be about 3.4 percent per year. The number of Europeans has been
declining due to emigration, which has been occurring at an average rate of
about 1,700 persons per month. According to estimates based on pre-war
data, 20 percent of the population is urban; but this is almost certain to
understate the present extent of urbanization.
4.        In 1980, per capita income was Z$470 (US$630, using the World
Bank Atlas methodology). Estimates for 1981 suggest that real per capita
income grew at about 4.6 percent, giving a 1981 figure of slightly under
Z$500 per person. In spite of this good growth performance, distribution
1 The Government of Zimbabwe's nomenclature for population divisions is
used throughout. The first census since 1969 was carried out in August
1982; the results are not yet available.



- 2 -
of income and assets between Africans and non-Africans remains highly
skewed. The Land Tenure Act of 1969 updated legislation of the 1930s and
confirmed division of the country's total land area into roughly two equal
parts for European and African settlement. the Europeans possessing most of
the best land. Given the difference between the size of the two groups,
the division resulted in an allocation at independence of approximately
2.5 ha per African and 65.2 ha per non-African. The degree of disparity
will begin to change now that majority rule has been achieved, but similar
disparities exist in the distribution of other productive assets and in-
come. Rough estimates made in 1979 of the differences in per capita income
suggest that the average per capita income for Africans was about Z$110
(US$175) compared with roughly Z$5,500 (US$9,000) for non-Africans.
5.       Following the Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI) in
1965, the international community imposed economic sanctions, and in 1973,
a costly guerrilla war started. The sanctions were only partly effective.
Between 1965, when they began, and 1974, real GDP grew at about 7.0 percent
per year and per capita income at about 3.5 percent. Exports expanded, en-
hancing the country's ability to import. Notably, the sanctions stimulated
development of local import substitution capacity, so that by 1979 consumer
goods were only about 10 percent of total imports, compared with 22 percent
in 1964. Sanctions also encouraged the diversification of commercial agri-
culture and the rapid growth of investment in and exports from the mining
sector.
6.        However, the economic situation changed for the worse between
1975 and 1979. The added effect of the guerrilla war, increases in the oil
price and two droughts caused economic activity to decline, so that per
capita income in real terms fell by 35 percent to its 1965 level. While
the value of exports rose slightly even during this period, the dramatic
increase in the cost of imports, in particular oil, caused the volume of
imports to fall precipitously. Real investment and formal employment also
declined significantly.
7.        Despite these setbacks, the new Government inherited a well-
diversified economy with good potential for growth. Agriculture, manufact-
uring and mining are all important, contributing 18 percent, 26 percent,
and 5 percent, respectively, of GDP in 1981, and together providing
52 percent of total formal employment. Agriculture and forestry account
for more than 290,000 jobs or 28 percent of the total; manufacturing for
173,000 jobs and mining for 69,000. Most of the remaining formal employ-
ment is provided by service sectors such as public administration, educa-
tion and, in particular, domestic service. Mining and agriculture earn
significant amounts of foreign exchange and supply most inputs for manufac-
turing, which in turn accounts for between 30 and 35 percent of Zimbabwe's
merchandize exports, mainly processed agricultural and mineral items.
8.        Since independence, the economy has rebounded strongly as resump-
tion of normal economic activity has been accompanied by an improvement in
the terms of trade and expansion of external borrowing. Imports increased
by 47 percent in 1980 and by 26 percent in 1981, facilitating increases in



- 3 -
capacity utilization. Growth has been extremely strong in agriculture,
which benefited from good weather in 1980 and 1981. Consequently, overall
real growth of the economy was about 11 percent in 1980, and over 8 percent
in 1981.
9.       The substantial increase in imports in 1980/81 was financed with
reserve drawdowns and short-term borrowings. This increase in imports and
short-term borrowing, coupled with a slower than required rate of growth of
exports, has resulted in a very serious balance of payments situation.
10.      Some short- and long-run problems must be addressed if the country
is to experience more equitably distributed growth. The major short-run
problem is controlling domestic demand so as to reduce inflation (currently
about 17 percent per year). Some needed policies are already being imple-
mented. Sales and import taxes and interest rates have all been raised.
The rate of expansion of the money supply was reduced from 22 percent in
1980 to 15 percent in 1981. The overall budget deficit as a percent of GDP
has declined from its high of 14 percent in 1979/80. However, further re-
ductions must be accomplished during the current (1982/83) budgetary exer-
cise if stabilization efforts are to fully succeed. Significant longer-
term problems concern the need to increase the level and quality of invest-
ment, to expand domestic savings, and to adopt a wage policy consistent
with the need to increase employment. Although these issues are inter-
related, the Government recognizes that increasing employment and labor
productivity are key to achieving its aim of growth with equity.
11.      The Government is taking measures to address some of these prob-
lems. It has published a three-year Transitional National Development Plan
which sets course for the economy for the next three years. The Government
is executing and IMF stabilization program which the IMF Board approved in
March 1983 and stipulates a number of measures including: an exchange rate
adjustment (the Government devalued the Zimbabwean dollar by 20 percent on
December 9, 1982 in order tc, restore export competitiveness that had been
eroded by large increases ii. labor costs and high domestic inflation); an
adjustment in the basket of currencies on which the value of the Zimbabwean
dollar is determined; a reduction in the budgetary deficit; limitations to
wage and salary increases; and ceilings to short-term external debt and
domestic credit.
12.      Should the measures Government is taking effectively deal with the
above-mentioned problems, prospects for respectable growth and more equit-
able distribution of income are quite good. Real increases in GDP could
well average 5.5 percent per year in 1980-85. Thereafter growth could
slow, perhaps, to an average of four percent per year, as investments are
made in longer-gestating programs with a more even distribution of assets.
Much of the burden of achieving these growth and equity goals must fall on
the agricultural sector. In the past, the commercial farms accounted for
most agricultural production. However, the development of smallholder
agriculture has been assigned the highest priority.



- 4 -
13.       Zimbabwe emerged from 15 years of sanctions and the war with
relatively low external indebtedness. In December 1981, foreign debt
totalled Z$948 million (US$1,318 million equivalent) and the country's
gross international reserves equalled about Z$150 million, or an estimated
two months of imports. The external debt figure was equivalent to about
24 percent of estimated GDP. The debt service ratio, which was about four
percent in 1980, is estimated to have risen to 8 and 15 percent in 1981 and
1982, respectively. This rapid rise reflects the fact that nearly all
Zimbabwe's present debt must be repaid in the next six years which will
exert pressures on the short-term balance-of-payments situation. However,
so long as the country avoids recourse to large amounts of short-term
commercial borrowing, the debt service ratios should begin to decline after
1984 even with large amounts of additional external borrowing. In light of
this and the country's potential for growth and expansion, Zimbabwe is
creditworthy for Bank lending. However, given the country's massive
external resource requirements for the next few years and the expected high
level of international interest rates and relatively hard repayment terms
of non-concessionary borrowing, it is clear that Zimbabwe needs to receive
part of its external assistance on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       Before 1965, the Bank made five loans totaling US$140.3 million
benefiting Rhodesia -- two directly to the Government for agriculture
(US$5.6 million) and power (US$28.0 million), two loans totaling US$87.7
million to the Central African Power Corporation (CAPCO), and a US$9.0
million loan to the Rhodesia Railways. As a guarantor of each of the
loans, the United Kingdom serviced them after 1964. The loans for
agriculture and railways have been repaid, and CAPCO resumed servicing its
two loans after the lifting of sanctions on December 21, 1979. During
FY81, the Bank and the Association approved a loan of US$50 million and a
credit of US$15 million for the Manufacturing Rehabilitation Imports Pro-
gram. The loan (1959-ZIM) and the credit (1120-ZIM) financed priority
import requirements of raw materials, spare parts, and components and bal-
ancing equipment needed to utilize idle capacity in the manufacturing sec-
tor. The Bank also approved a loan (1944-ZIM) of US$42 million to finance
import requirements of spare parts, track maintenance equipment and tools
for the railways, equipment for the Central Mechanical Equipment Department
and technical assistance. In FY83, a Small Farm Credit Project, approved
by the Association for US$30.4 million (1291-ZIM), will provide the
Agricultural Finance Corporation with funds for seasonal loans and for
medium- and long-term loans for equipment and farm improvements, as well as
technical assistance. The Association also approved a credit (1296-ZIM)
for US$1.2 million to select the optimum system of supplying petroleum. A
loan of US$105.0 million, approved by the Board in December 1982
(2212-ZIM), will enhance power generating capacity through a Phase II
extension of Hwange Thermal Power Station. In February 1983, the Board
approved a US$70.6 million loan for a Manufacturing Export Promotion
Project that will make available foreign exchange to finance priority



- 5 -
import requirements of raw materials, spare parts, components, balancing
equipment and export promotional services. A summary statement of Bank
Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
provided in Annex II. Project implementation thus far is satisfactory and
disbursements have kept to schedule.
15.       IFC's first investment in Zimbabwe, approved by its Board in
March 1981, was in the Wankie Colliery Company Limited, to help finance a
project for producing coal for a thermal power station, now being
constructed, and other uses. The investment was in the form of a
US$38.0 million loan (552-ZIM), of which US$20.0 million was for IFC's own
account, and US$18 million comprised commercial bank participation in the
loan. IFC was also responsible for arranging a further US$10.3 million of
commercial bank financing related to a proposed loan by the Export-Import
Bank of the United States.
16.      The Bank is identifying and preparing projects in agriculture and
rural forestry development, power, railways development, manpower
development and training and industrial intermediation. Meanwhile a high-
way project, which includes constructing about 400 km of rural roads in the
communal areas plus a pilot feeder road program and a rural afforestation
project are scheduled for Board presentation in May 1983.
17.      The Bank has reviewed the agriculture, energy, urban, education
and manpower, population, health and nutrition, and telecommunications sec-
tors, for which reports either have been completed or are being written.
18.      Since Bank lending to Zimbabwe is very recent, Bank Group exposure
is still very low. At the end of 1981, the Bank accounted for six percent
and IDA and the Bank combined, for about eight percent of Zimbabwe's public
debt.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.      These are essentially three subsectors within the agricultural
sector:
(a)  5,800 large-scale commercial farmers (Zimbabweans
mostly of European origin) on 15 million ha under
freehold title;
(b)  8,500 small-scale commercial farmers (Zimbabweans
mostly of African origin) on 1.5 million ha (form-
erly called African Purchase Lands under tenancy or
freehold title; and
(c)  840,000 farm families comprising about 4 million
people on 16 million ha in the communal areas
(formerly Tribal Trust Lands) with tenure based on



traditional rights allocated by the hereditary
chiefs.
20.      Most agricultural production comes from the commercial farms which
are highly mechanized and efficient. These farms are predominately found
in the country's relatively high and stable rainfall regions (natural re-
gions I and II). Due to their productivity, Zimbabwe is one of the few
countries in Africa which consistently produce food surpluses. In 1981,
agriculture contributed an estimated 18 percent of GDP, the total value of
agricultural production was US$1.1 billion and agricultural exports reached
US$600.0 million, constituting 47 percent of total exports. The commercial
farms were largely responsible for this performance.
21.      In contrast, less than 20 percent of the value of total agricul-
tural production comes from the communal areas and about 24 percent of this
amount is marketed. Most of the production is for subsistence. However,
recently the communal areas as a whole have not been self-sufficient in
food. During the 1970s, production in the communal areas actually de-
clined. The per capita gross farm income in the communal areas was
estimated at US$58 in 1980.
22.      The fact that over 50 percent of the total propulation and about
70 percent of the rural population lives in the communal areas, is of cru-
cial importance. Even if the Government's program to resettle people on
newly acquired commercial agricultural land proceeds at presently planned
rates (162,000 families over the next three years), which seems unlikely,
it would just barely keep pace with rural population growth. Raising in-
comes, therefore, for the vast majority of rural inhabitants depends mainly
on increasing agricultural production in the communal areas.
23.      Equally significant is the fact that over 90 percent of the com-
munal areas are located in the relatively low rainfall zones of natural
regions III, IV and V. In the past, the Government treated these areas as
marginal agricultural land. In fact, natural region III was regarded as
the border zone for crops; natural region IV was recommended for mostly
livestock with some cropping in a few areas; and natural region V was
recommended exclusively for ranching or irrigation. Natural region II,
where most of the large-scale commercial farms are located, was viewed as
the national granary which could feed the entire country.
24.      If development is to be widespread and benefit the majority of the
population, this geographical pattern of economic growth must change.
Furthermore, the country can no longer afford to ignore the agricultural
potential of natural regions III, IV and V. Compared to many parts of the
world, with similar or even less favorable natural resource endowments,
these regions are not doing nearly as well as they could. Much can, and
should, be done to increase agricultural production in the communal areas.
Probably the biggest development challenge facing Zimbabwe at the present
time is how to accomplish this growth and bring the majority of the popula-
tion into the mainstream of economic activity, while maintaining and, if
possible, expanding the productive capacity and strength of the commercial
agricultural/industrial sectors.



- 7 -
25.      Particularly important in bringing about these changes will be the
Government's commitment to the agricultural sector. For 1982/83, the
Government budgeted Z$141.9 million, or about 8.0 percent of its total bud-
get (excluding defense and donor aid) to the agricultural sector. The
agricultural sector received the second largest allocation after education,
which received 23 percent. Of the total amount budgeted for agriculture,
veterinary services, extension, research, tsetse control and agricultural
education received 11.6 percent, 10.4 percent, 6.0 percent, and 0.6 per-
cent, respectively. Consumer food subsidies to marketing parastatals
accounted for the lion's share (53.4 percent), while the remaining portion
(14.0 percent) was allocated to the central administration of the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA).
26.      As a proportion of the total budget, the amount allocated to agri-
culture is substantial compared to other sectors, but as its composition
reveals, only a very small proportion actually goes to support productive
services, such as extension and research; most of it is absorbed by con-
sumer food subsidies. As the Government begins to implement its fiscal
austerity program, following the December 1982 devaluation (20 percent) of
the Zimbabwean dollar it has started to reduce certain Government expendi-
tures, including consumer food subsidies. At the same time, essential
government services, especially those which increase the productive
capacity of the economy, such as extension and research, need to be
expanded. In fact, expansion in these areas will not be possible unless
even larger reductions are achieved elsewhere in the budget. Some diffi-
cult choices will need to be made. This issue can be expected to receive
major attention in the Bank's continuing sector and macroeconomic dialogue
with the Government.
Sector Issues
27.      While the Government has assigned highest priority to reducing the
large gap between the commercial and communal areas by transforming the
latter iato a more modern and productive part of the economy, the Govern-
mentts strategy and policies for achieving this objective are still evolv-
ing. Some of the main issues which need to be addressed in this context
include: the large number of organizations, committees and ministries with
overlapping responsibilities for rural development; the presently untapped
potential of the private sector, particularly in the areas of marketing and
input supply and the role of cooperatives; the fiscal drain and regressive
distributional effects from the large subsidization of food; the total
resources that should be allocated to resettlement relative to the communal
areas where the vast majority of the population is located; the need to
develop a more effective extension service in the communal areas; the lack
of technological packages for the drier areas; and the chronic shortage of
well-trained and experienced agricultural personnel in both Government and
the private sector. The Government is aware of these issues for which some
solutions will need to be found, if the Government's development objectives
are to be achieved.



- 8 -
Agricultural Extension and Research Services
28.      Extension.  The Department of Agricultural Technical Services and
Extension (AGRITEX), within the MOA, is responsible for the provision of
all agricultural extension services in the country. AGRITEX was estab-
lished in July 1981 through the amalgamation of two separate organizations:
the former Department of Conservation and Extension (CONEX) within MOA, and
the former Department of Agricultural Development (DEVAG) within the former
Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources and Rural Development. Under the
previous structure, CONEX was responsible for providing extension services
to commercial and African purchase land farmers, while DEVAG provided those
services in the former Tribal Trust Lands.
29.      At present, AGRITEX is expanding the extension services provided
to communal area smallholder farmers. The emphasis is to be placed on
reaching as many as possible of these farmers through the formation of
farmer groups. To devote the maximum possible resources to this effort,
AGRITEX plans to provide only an advisory (mostly on-call) extension
service in the commercial areas where farmers are already very knowledge-
able and self-reliant. To succeed in implementing this new policy will
require some major changes within AGRITEX, both in resource allocation and
general orientation to problems.
30.      Of a total establishment of about 2,000 technical and professional
posts, AGRITEX as of the end of 1982 had some 200 vacancies. There are
vacancies at all levels but the largest number occur at the field level.
31.      The number of specialists working in the field in disciplines
which are needed especially in the communal areas, such as crop production,
is extremely small. However, it is in such areas, where the need for
specialist assistance is greatest, as the extension workers serving the
communal area farmers are not nearly as highly trained as those who used to
serve the commercial areas, a situation that makes in-service training all
the more important.
32.      The relatively small number of extension workersis a major
constraining factor. Their ratio to farm families in the communal areas
ranges from about 1:600 in Mashonaland West to about 1:990 in Matabeleland
North, an average of about 1:750. Compounding the staff shortage problem
is the fact that none of the extension workers are motorized. Some have
bicycles but these can hardly provide the necessary mobility where
extension workers are expected to travel often as much as 20 km per day on
very difficult rural roads. Under these conditions, extension workers
simply do not make these trips and serve fewer farmers than the simple
extension ratios would indicate. A further limiting factor is the extreme
scarcity of adequate housing in the field, which forces extension workers
to live in towns, far from the farmers they are supposed to serve, while
many others resort to improvising their own shelters, many of these being
mere hovels. This definitely lowers the extension worker's self-esteem and
status in the farm community, making it increasingly difficult to attract
and retain competent staff.



- 9 -
33.      For these reasons, the extension service is not as effective as it
should be. Consequently, the many technical messages that already exist
regarding moisture conservation, plant population, varieties, pest control,
intercropping, etc., are not being regularly communicated to the majority
of farmers in the communal areas, a situation that is all the more
unfortunate because, with the change in Government, farmers in these areas
now appear to have much higher expectations and to be eager to improve
their livelihood. The present time is particularly opportune to improve
the extension service and take advantage of this interest.
34.      Research.  The Department of Research and Specialist Services
(R&SS) is responsible for the Government's agricultural research program.
R&SS has contributed substantially to Zimbabwe's agricultural prosperity,
but to date, this research has mainly benefited commercial area farmers.
Only very recently has R&SS begun widespread adaptive research aimed
specifically at the communal areas. While considerable technological
information already exists which could be applied in the communal areas
(particularly in natural regions II and III), given an improved extension
service, there is much less that is relevant to natural regions IV and V.
Much of it will need to be adapted to the kinds of farming systems found in
those areas.
35.      Research management in R&SS has been of a high caliber, as past
achievements in commercial farm research have demonstrated. Much of this
success has been due, in large part, to a fairly vocal and well-represented
commercial farm subsector that has insisted on the provision of good agri-
cultural services. Similar pressure could be exerted by the communal area
farmers if properly organized. However, R&SS also will need to reinforce
and deepen its experience in the kind of farming systems research needed
for the communal areas. Furthermore, with a number of senior managers
expected to retire or change jobs shortly, the need to strengthen the
management of R&SS will become imperative very soon.
36.      Of a total establishment of 355 technical and professional posts,
R&SS had some 86 vacancies, as of the end of 1982. The division suffering
the most from staff shortages is clearly the Crop Research Division with an
average vacancy rate of 33 percent. Within this division, the Crop Breed-
ing Institute, which recently lost several of its most experienced plant
breeders, has been able to fill only about 65 percent of its positions.
The situation for the lowveld research stations, which serve the low rain-
fall areas of natural region V, is even worse; only about 56 percent of
these positions are filled. For the Livestock and Pastures and Research
Services Divisions, staffing is much less a problem mainly because both
these divisions are able to recruit a large proportion of their staff from
a fairly wide cross section of scientific disciplines, while much of the
staff needed for crop research must normally have specific agricultural
training.
37.      Associations have recently been established with a number of
international research centers. These relationships should be of



- 10 -
considerable benefit to R&SS, given the losses of RS,SS' own staff and also
because of the wide experience of many of these centers in dealing with the
very difficult problems of research for smallfarm situations in low rain-
fall areas--a field that R&SS has only recently entered.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.      The project was identified by IFAD and appraised by the Bank.
Bank cofinancing with IFAD was proposed when, during the course of prepara-
tion, it became apparent that the project would be fairly large in scope as
well as of fundamental importance to the Government's development program
in the agricultural sector. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4305-ZIM,
dated June 16, 1983) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Joint negotiations were held in Rome with IFAD from April 4-7,
1983 with the Zimbabwean delegation led by Mr. Isaac Takawira, Deputy
Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development. A loan
and project summary is given at the beginning of this report. Annex III
contains supplementary project data.
Objectives and Rationale
39.      The project comprises the national programs for agricultural
extension and research over the next four years (1983/84-1986/87) and the
strengthening of the respective implementing organizations, AGRITEX and
R&SS. The extension and research capacity would be developed in terms of
institutions and policies as well as investments. Because the project
encompasses the total national programs for such basic agricultural
services as extension and research, its general objectives are quite broad,
involving the performance of the entire agricultural sector. Specifically,
the project would begin to build, over the next several years, the agricul-
tural and research capacity needed to substantially increase agricultural
production and farm incomes in the communal areas, while allowing the com-
mercial agricultural subsector to at least maintain and, if possible,
improve its performance.
40.      In light of the various problems associated with extension and
research, particularly the staff shortages that are expected to continue as
an overriding constraint in both AGRITEX and R&SS over the next several
years, the process of building up the needed extension and research capa-
city in the country will take more than the four years proposed project
period. The national extension and research programs, which comprise the
project are aimed at strengthening the foundation. Thus, the provision of
basic infrastructure, increasing the effectiveness of the limited supply of
trained manpower, in-service training, and institution building are the
cornerstones of the present project.



- 11 -
Staff Requirements
41.      AGRITEX and R&SS are expected to reach full strength by the end of
the project period, but will have a relatively large number of inexperi-
enced staff, (which will place much heavier demands on in-service
training). However, even to achieve establishment strength by the end of
the project period, depends critically on the Government's commitment to
its present agricultural education program. Beginning with FY84, the
Government would budget the necessary resources to maintain the student
enrollment capacities implied by present plans (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.01). Agreement was also obtained that by the start of the school
year (September 1983), the training period at the agricultural institutes
would be reduced from three to two years and that starting salaries for
these graduates would not be lowered (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05).
In addition, the Government would review the remuneration packages for both
AGRITEX and R&SS and introduce appropriate changes to make these
organizations more competitive, by January 1, 1985 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.06).
Project Description
42.      During the initial years of the project, while the adaptive
research program is underway and the results are not yet available, the
focus of the extension effort would be on promoting broader adoption of
various already known and tested techniques in farm and crop management
practices. Farmer groups would be used in order to reach as many of the
communal area farmers as possible.
43.      In addition to maintaining in real terms what was budgeted for
extension and research in 1982/83, the following incremental parts are
included in the project.
Extension Program (1983/84-1986/87)
44.      Establishment of a New Management Services Branch.  A new branch,
called Management Services, would be established to provide operational
policy advice to the directorate of AGRITEX. To help the new branch estab-
lish a monitoring and evaluation capability, 18 man-months of technical
assistance would be provided. The Management Services Branch would be
established and made operational by January 1, 1984 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.07).
45.      Reorganization of the Technical Services Division.  To provide ex-
tension field staff with the maximum possible support in those technical
fields which are most important in the communal areas, the Technical Ser-
vices Division within AGRITEX would be reorganized. The present structure,
both in terms of the distribution of subject matter specialists between
head office and field, and the relative importance of the different
technical branches, needs to be re-examined in the light of present
priorities to concentrate extension efforts in the communal areas. AGRITEX
would carry out this assessment and make recommendations which it would
first discuss with the Bank/IFAD and then implement by September 30, 1984
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.08).



- 12 -
both in terms of the distribution of subject matter specialists between
head office and field, and the relative importance of the different
technical branches, needs to be re-examined in the light of present
priorities to concentrate extension efforts in the communal areas.  AGRITEX
would carry out this assessment and make recommendations which it would
first discuss with the Bank/IFAD and then implement by September 30, 1984
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.08).
46.      Simplifying and Streamlining the Provincial Structure of
Extension. AGRITEX, with the assistance of the new Management Services
Branch, would make recommendations for the new simplified provincial
structure which it would discuss with the Bank/IFAD and implement by
September 30, 1984 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.08).
47.      Programming.  To increase the effectiveness of extension workers,
schedules, indicating with whom, when and how frequently, extension workers
would meet with farmers or farmer groups, supervisors, specialists, and
training personnel, would be drawn up, discussed with IFAD and the Bank,
and strictly adhered to and implemented in all the provinces by September
30, 1984 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.08).
48.      Housing.  To enable AGRITEX to attract and retain suitable staff
and reduce the unproductive time field staff spend going from home to work,
the backlog in field staff housing would be eliminated over the four-year
project period. A total of 660 new houses would be constructed and 250
houses would be either reconstructed or repaired.
49.      Transport.  To increase the mobility of the extension workers and
consequently the area and the number of farmers they can effectively cover,
the entire staff of extension workers and supervisors in the communal areas
would be motorized. Some 1,200 motorcycles (125 cc) would be made avail-
able to these staff on a loan basis administered by CMED of the Ministry of
National Supplies.  In addition, the vehicle requirements of field officers
would also be met.
50.      In-Service Training.  To cope with the substantial increase in
in-service training requirements that are expected to arise from the rapid
turnover of supervisory and specialist staff and from the focus on the com-
munal areas, AGRITEX's in-service training program would be substantially
strengthened by:
(a) having training programs prepared for each category
of staff;
(b) designing new curricula to meet present needs;
(c) providing a training program for managers and
supervisors;



- 13 -
(d) supplying mobile information units, four-wheel
drive vehicles and equipment for preparing training
material; and
(e) providing selected staff with fellowships and study
tours abroad.
Consultants would be engaged during the first, second and third years of
the project to assist the Training Branch of AGRITEX in carrying out (a),
(b), and (c) above.
51.      Pilot Schemes.  Four pilot schemes would be established on a dis-
trict scale in physically and socioeconomically representative parts of the
communal areas in order to refine extension techniques and test new teach-
ing aids, support services and equipment. The new Management Services
Branch would be responsible for implementing the pilot schemes. Each of
the four pilot schemes would be tested over a three-year period to allow
AGRITEX to evaluate the results during several planting seasons. A base
line study would be carried out in all the pilot areas in order to identify
the pre-pilot situation. Before implementing the pilot schemes, AGRITEX
would provide the Bank and IFAD the opportunity to comment on the proposals
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.09).
Research Program
52.      Organization and Administration.  R&SS would carryout a review of
its organizational, administrative and accounting structures and practices
in order to increase its efficiency in meeting present priorities.
Consultants would be provided to assist R&SS in this task. The consultancy
would also assist R&SS in organizing its research program and accounts on a
project basis, as compared to the present system which shows expenditures
only against institutes and stations. In addition, by January 1, 1984, the
composition of the research council would be modified to ensure that the
communal area farmers are directly represented (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02).
53.      Eliminating the Backlog.  Some research activities, such as plant
breeding, agronomy and cotton research, have been seriously underfunded in
recent years. For these activities, the backlog of equipment, vehicles and
houses would be eliminated and the related staff vacancies would be filled
as a matter of first priority.
54.      Expanding Communal Area-Related Research.  Only those research
activities which directly benefit the communal areas would be expanded.
This expansion would be accomplished by filling existing positions and
existing positions and providing houses, vehicles, and equipment. With few
exceptions, no new posts would be created. The activities covered under
this program would include:
(a) the communal area research trials;
(b) the farming systems research (FSR) program,



- 14 -
(c)  the establishment of an on-farm research coordin-
ation unit;
(d) the plant breeding and agronomy components of the
crop production units of those research stations
serving mainly the lower rainfall areas in the com-
munal areas;
(d) cotton research;
(e) plant protection; and
(f) a physical resource inventory including soil class-
ification and erosion potential.
55.      In-Service Training.  To help train a large number of relatively
inexperienced research staff, a more systematic approach to the
apprenticeship system would be introduced. Because a good part of training
in research occurs through contact with experienced researchers, primary
reliance would be placed on this type of on-the-job-training. To make this
system more effective, a training officer, would be responsible for
supervising the training programs for each new researcher coming into
R&SS. If R&SS is unable to appoint a qualified person to the established
vacant post of training officer, then technical assistance would be
provided. To supplement the number of experienced researchers, who would
provide this on-the-job training, technical assistance would be provided.
Fellowships and study tours abroad would also be included.
56.      Technical Assistance.  Some 420 staffmonths of technical
assistance would be provided in certain key areas (e.g., research
management, plant breeding, farming systems research, plant protection,
cotton agronomy and pathology) to support permanent staff while they
undergo on-the-job training.
Project Costs and Financing
57.      The total cost of the project, including all capital and recurrent
expenditures, physical and price contingencies, and taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$177.2 million, of which US$46.2 million or 26 percent is
foreign exchange. The incremental costs account for 25 percent of the
total costs or US$44.9 million. A total of 43 man years of technical
assistance and consultancy services are included at an average cost of
about US$8,100 per month.
58.       The Government, over the four-year project period would, in addi-
tion to maintaining in real terms what it presently budgets for these acti-
vities (US$26.2 million per annum in 1982/83), contribute a gradually
increasing proportion of the incremental recurrent expenditures, rising
from 20 percent in the first year of the project to 80 percent in the
fourth year and to 100 percent thereafter. On this basis, the Government's
total incremental and non-incremental contribution (net of duties and
taxes) would be US$10.1 million and US$136.2 million, respectively, for a



- 15 -
total of US$146.3 million or US$36.6 million on average per annum over four
years.
59.       IFAD and the Bank would finance all the new capital expenditures
and the remaining incremental recurrent expenditures over the four-year
project period. IFAD would provide US$18.0 million and the Bank
US$13.1 million.
Procurement
60.       The staff houses to be constructed under the project would be too
widely scattered in the communal areas and would individually involve too
small a sum to attract foreign bidders. Civil works estimated to cost
US$18 million, would be carried out by private local contractors or through
force account. Those works carried out by private contractors would be
awarded through local competitive bidding in accordance with Zimbabwean
procurement procedures which have been reviewed and found acceptable to
IFAD and the Bank.
61.       Vehicles, equipment and spare parts, estimated to cost
US$4.3 million, would be bulked as far as practical. Orders of US$100,000
and above would be procured through international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank guidelines, from suppliers who maintain or agree to
establish and maintain adequate after-sale services and spare parts in
strategically located places. Vehicles, equipment and spare parts which,
because of genuinely special circumstances and urgency, cannot be bulked in
orders of US$100,000 or more, would be procured through local competitive
bidding in accordance with government procurement procedures. These have
also been reviewed and found acceptable to IFAD and the Bank;
representatives of foreign firms would be eligible to bid. Procurement
through local competitive bidding would not exceed US$250,000 in aggregate.
62.       The individuals or firms to provide technical assistance and con-
sultancy services would be ,.elected and engaged in accordance with proce-
dures, and under terms and conditions acceptable to IFAD and the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03). In addition, before contracting any
technical assistance, the necessary permanent staff would have been
appointed to the positions in AGRITEX and R&SS (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03).
.
Disbursement
63.       Disbursements for both the IFAD and Bank loans would be on the
following basis:
(a) civil works-- 80 percent of total expenditures;
(b) vehicles, equipment and spare parts--100 percent
of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs);and 65 percent of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally;



- 16 -
(c) consultant services and technical assistance:
--100 percent of local expenditures for services
of consultants domiciled within Zimbabwe and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for services of
other consultants;
(d) fellowships and study tours; 100 percent of total
expenditures; and
(e)  incremental operating costs at a percentage
declining gradually from 80 percent in the
project's first year, 60 percent in the second
year, 40 percent in the third, 20 percent in the
fourth, subject to overall average of 45 percent
of the total incremental recurrent expenditures
over the project period.
64.       Disbursement for civil works, vehicles, equipment, spare parts,
consultancy services would be made after presentation of full documenta-
tion. Disbursement for incremental operating costs would be made against
statements of expenditure.
Accounting and Auditing
65.       AGRITEX, R&SS, MOA, and CMED would each maintain a separate ac-
count of the funds and expenditures, for which they are directly respons-
ible under the project. The accounting system applied by these agencies is
sound and the agencies have the capacity to maintain satisfactory and
timely accounts. These accounts would be audited annually by the Auditor-
General's Department which has the capacity to carry out this work in a
satisfactory and timely manner. The Auditor-General would be requested to
make specific reference to, and comments on statements of expenditure and
the supporting documents. The audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IFAD and the Bank within nine months
following the end of the fiscal year. Agreements to these arrangements
were obtained (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Project Implementation
66.       As the project has no separate identity apart from the national
programs which it encompasses, its organization and management are those of
the various departments and branches concerned (AGRITEX and R&SS). A new
Management Service Branch would be created within the department which will
strengthen AGRITEX' capability to plan and make policy decisions, including
reorganization of the Technical Services Divisions and the streamlining of
the provincial structure of extension field services. In R&SS, with the
assistance of consultants, the organizational and administrative structures
would be changed to enable management to exercise the control it needs.
Moreover, technical assistance will be provided to R&SS to support
permanent staff in key areas, while they undergo on-the-job training. R&SS
will further be strengthened by the establishment of new unit to liaise
with AGRITEX and coordinate the various research disciplines involved in
on-farm adaptive research.



- 17 -
67.       Civil Works.  MOA, through its maintenance division, would be
responsible for the construction and maintenance of the new staff houses,
repair works, and other major civil works. MOA is well established and has
the necessary technical competence and capacity to ensure that the works
would be carried out in accordance with sound engineering standards.
However, AGRITEX and R&SS would be responsible for determining the number
of houses to be constructed each year and for identifying and acquiring the
sites.
68.       Transport.  The vehicles to be procured for the extension and
research programs would involve both loan and hire arrangements with CMED.
Almost all the motorcycles would be provided on a loan basis. For vehicles
financed under the project and for which loans would be given, CMED's
normal terms would apply and loans would cover 100 percent of the cost of
motorcycles and for 90 percent of the cost of other vehicles (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.12).
69.       AGRITEX and R&SS would be responsible for preparing tender docu-
ments, inviting and evaluating bids for vehicles to be made available to
the staff on a loan basis. In the case of government vehicles, AGRITEX and
R&SS would advise CMED of their requirements in time to ensure inclusion of
these costs in the budget estimates for the concerned year.
Supervision
70.       Because of the comprehensive program nature of the project, con-
siderable flexibility was built into the design to allow for needed adjust-
ments over the four-year period. AGRITEX and R&SS would prepare annual
work plans indicating the next year's plan in detail; such plans would be
submitted to the Bank; and that Annual Project Review Meetings would be
held to discuss these plans and review the long-term program (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.13). To assist the Government, these annual review
meetings would also be attended by some of the international research
organizations which already or will soon, have associations with R&SS. As
a group they would serve as a technical advisory committee.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
71.       Quantifying the benefits from any extension or research project
is a difficult task.  The complicating factors include:  a long gestation
period before full realization of the benefits; a very long project life
over which predictive accuracy diminishes; the inherently uncertain nature
of research; and the fact that research and extension are essential but not
sufficient by themselves to ensure sustained agricultural growth.  For
these reasons a break-even approach has been adopted which determines the
agricultural development which would be required to minimally justify the
level of incremental expenditures under the project. After having
determined this level the likelihood that this growth would ocur as a
result of the project is assessed.



- 18 -
72.      There are a number of agricultural development scenarios which
would satisfy a minimum economic rate of return say, 12 percent. This
could be achieved if, in the third year of the project about 18,000 average
communal area farmers begin to adopt the extension message resulting in an
overall 30 percent increase in yields and, for the next twenty years, an
equal number of new average farmers adopt this message with the same
results. Even with only the present technology, using improved farm and
crop husbandry practices, these yield increases should be attainable. The
adoption rates are also quite low, implying that each extension worker
would need to reach only 17 new average farmers each year. After twenty
years this would imply an adoption rate of only about 36 percent of the
total farm population. While there are many more scenarios which could be
considered, including variations among different farmers instead of
presenting the case only in terms of the average farmer, this example
sufficies to indicate the high probability that the project is economically
justified. Other scenarios involving different gestation periods, adoption
rates and yield increases, lead to the same conclusion, that with modest
values for the key parameters, the minimum rate of return can be achieved.
Risks
73.       The major risks to the project are the possibilities of substan-
tial shortfalls in budgetary allocations and staff recruitment, losses of
experienced staff, and possible inadequate output from local training pro-
grams. To reduce these risks, several measures have be taken. Regarding
budgetary allocations, the project's funding implications have been very
carefully identified and clear commitments would be discussed and agreed
during negotiations. Also, the review of this matter would be given the
highest priority in the Bank's continuing sector and macroeconomic dialogue
with the Government. To help ensure that AGRITEX and R&SS are able to
recruit the staff they need to implement their programs, agreements would
be sought at negotiations that the Government would implement MOA's agri-
cultural education program and introduce more competitive salary and bene-
fit packages in both AGRITEX and R&SS. Lastly, consultancy services as
well as technical assistance would be provided to give AGRITEX and R&SS the
capability they need to systematically train a relatively large number of
inexperienced staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zimbabwe and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition for effectiveness is that the loan
agreement between IFAD and Zimbabwe has become effective and that IFAD has



- 19 -
appointed the Bank as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund loan.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
June 15, 1983



- 20 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZIMBAWE --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZIMBABWE                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7fAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL.           390.6                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      73.4              1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 240.0       340.0     630.0                1053.2                  1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   1333.2       1093.0     783.2                 610.1                   713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3605.0       5308.0   7396.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.6        16.9      23.0                  28.3                    47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      17.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        63.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        9.2        13.6      18.3                  54.7                    35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     52.6        73.7      97.4                 129.9                   420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.4        46.5      47.4                  46.0                    44.3
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50 8      50.0                 51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         2.7       2.6                  2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              4.0         3.9       3.3                   2.8                     2.8
URBAN                              5.7         6.8       6.4                   5.2                     4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    55.4         55.4      54.2                 47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     16.5        14.0      13.0                 15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.9         3.9       3.9                  3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        18.6/c   507.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      14.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          76.0        93.0      92.0                 90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REqUIRDEMNTS)                  110.6        96.2    108.5/d                93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          77.8        68.4      74.4/i               54.8                     71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       20.4        21.0      20.4/d                17.0                    18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     23.4        17.2      11.8                 23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
WIR  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   49.2         53.2      54.5                  51.0                    56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          117.5        94.6      74.3                118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     59.1
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     83.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4793.9      6372.1    7027.2/j            14185.2                   4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1013.7/e   1098.1    1172.7/1              2213.2                   1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            249.0/f     294.5     371.3/j             1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                               ..        71.8        ..                430.8                    538.3
RURAL                               ..      1025.0        ..               3678.6                   2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        30.5      24.5/                   ..                    25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              0.8         0.7
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        .                     ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 21 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZIMBABWE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZIMBABWE                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0        100.0     104.0                   83.3                     88.7
MALE                 107.0        114.0      109.6                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                86.0         86.0      95.5                   80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0          8.0      14.7                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   7.0         10.0       17.2                  19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 4.0          6.0       12.2                  11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  17.0             ..        4.2                   4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RAFIO
PRLMARY                             37.7           .,      39.0                   38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                           21.0         22.0      23.0                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         39.4/e         ..       74.0                  35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          22.2         23.5      29.8/i                 31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            *-         27.3      42.0                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.7          9.4       9.8                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   24.7         15.6      15.5                   19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                   0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1363.8       1868.9    2441.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    30.4         30.1      28.9                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               69.0         64.0      60.0                   56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         13.0      15.0                   17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 37.8         35.2       33.0                  37.0                      26.0
MALE                                  53.3         49.7       46.6                  46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                22.7         21.0       19.2                  27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.5                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
H1IGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 200.6                    178.6
ESTLIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 203.6                    285.6
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ,.                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c 1972; /d 1977; /e 1962; /f 1963; /g 1976; /i 1974.
May, 1982



- 22 -                                                          ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCiAL IND7CTIS                                           Page    3   of   5
.toes:  Althoush the dus tat  draw fete sources generally judged the St a- thorisative  nd  elisble. it r-hosid also be netad that they fly sot be inter-
s_tionally ooprurable becanse uf tbe lack of standardised defititioss and cotcept- used by differeet coentcie  in coliecting the data.  The data ore, tote-
rheleas, useful to describe orders of oSgoitudt. ludicate trends, oud characterize certain eajor differe-ta bs-e-weu countries.
The reference groupt ace (1) ehe sane country group of the tub]ect couotryund (2) a osutry group eitb sotewhot higher overage incoe tha  thbe c.outry group
of the subject couutry (eexcrt for   "igh I come   Oil Suporuera" frOop chets "Middle Ioemer North Aferic  and Mfiddle  ast" is chosen because of strouger
socio-culcuutl affititiet).  In the reference group data the avetuges ace populatiot seighted erithmeti tmeass for such indicstor aed shown only whet
eatjurity of tbhcucountriee inuatroup has data far that indicator.  Since the cuvelage of counteies acoug the fndicaters depeedt on the uvailability of iota
and is nor uoffort. cuction =ut be -nercied in relating averasee of one indi-ator to unother.  These ave--ges oet  only usefol incoepartug the nalue of
use indicacor at a ffse snsng the country aod refereune groups.
hARg  (thousand eq.kh.j                                                                      Populatiou pet ioseftel  od - fotal. =rban. und roral - Populosioc (atuf,
Total - Total sutfoce area co-pcifing food  -roa sod ilsd eaters; 1979 deta.               urban, uud erurl) dinided by their respective no-ber of huspitul beds
Asrioultntcl - Estitcte of agricultoral          used te-pocerily or Per-uestly              available it public and pribete teer   ane=d apecialfoed hespituf und re-
for crops, pastures, sachet and kitbhen garden_ ot i lie follow; 1979 data.                habilitation centert.  Hotpital  are ostablisbttents p hreaently staffed
by at least one phyeicitn.  Eta-bsifhasn  providiog priecipallp cultu-
IHP PER CAflTA (ISO) -  tiSP  per capita estieateN at curteno t.arket prices. cal-             dial ones are not included.  E Iral hoepital`. however, include health
culated  r sUt  convnetfsi  methd as World hank Atlas  (1SPt-dD baeis); 1960,                aod medical ceeters eot peraeotiy staffed by a physician (but by a
1970, aud 1980 data.                                                                         medoallaseigst-d, =urse, eidvife, etc.) which offer iu-patie=t acomto-
datien and precide a limited rango of meNdicol facilitfee. Poe totiti-
EhfguGT CONSUhtPTlON ff0 CAPITA - Annuoal cunsuoptiou of coawoecial energy (coal               tinsi psrpouset urhas baspituls include tOGs principal/general heopituls,.
end lignite, petroleue, ooarual gas und hydro-,  _uolear aod geothermal elec-                and ruesl hospitals, linal or oural hospi.tland   dinol end etetufty
trinity) i1 ltflogro.s of  coal oquivaleet Per capira; 196O, 1970, aid 1979                  cesters.  Specialieed hospitals are included ooly ueder total.
duta.                                                                                      Adtissiess pee Hospital Hod - Total maober of adeission  en or diacharges
free hospitals divided by the tahber of beIu.
PIPULATIION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Populatfon, Hid-fear (thousatds) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, und 1980         HfUgGIN       S
data.                                                                                   Anerage Site of Houseobld (persous per household) - totol, utbao, and rural-
Srhan PPupaltio    i (percnrt of total) -   efoi. of erban no total population;              A hosabhold consists of n group of P ndioiduals who shore lliog q-a-era
differeut definitions of urban areas aay affect tonparability of datu                      end their bati  walts.  A boarder  ro ldgur may or map or be included ic
snug countries; 1960, 1970. anid 19d  data.                                                the houeehold for sta-   tiical purposes.
Population Projections                                                                    Average ou,tet of persons per room -total. arban, and rural - averafe nutt
Populutlee in year 2000 - Cucreut populati-o projections ore based no 1980                ber of persons pee room 1n ol  urban, and rural occupied cnuventional
total yopulation by age and sco and their  artality and fertility rates.                dwellingo, respecti-ely.  SWelliogs.exclade non-po neontttructures asd
Projection paraeters for  _ernolity rates cooprioe of three levels ussun-               uounuupied prrt.
ig liPf  expectatoy ot birth increasing with 7ountry's per capita incoe              Acess to Electricity (perceot of dvellings) - tota1. urbut. and rural -
local, and feoaio life nepectuncy stab liIs I   at 77.5 yeats.  The para-               Cnetional isellitgs with clectriclt  in lining quarteru as percentage
tsiers for fertility rate elan have uhrer levelu  asapcinf decline ft                   of total, orban, and rural dweltings reopentively.
fertility according tcoioo-  lenl ad poot farily plan=ing perforcaote.
loch couPiry is thou assigned vue of these nice coniahioalsu of soprculicy         FE7UCATIOO
and fertility crtods for projcction purposes.                                         Adjusted gutuliweot lotlut
tatieuary Populotiot - It a statifonuTy populotics there is so growth since               rrimurr school - totul, maPle atd female - Ghtps total. tale aed fenEle
the birth rate is tqual to the death rate,  and also the age ucructure ye-                 unrolluso. of all afts at the primary lenel ua perceotages ot rospectivt
sainunconstant.  This iu achieved only a.ter bti,   rates inline to                        pripsry nchool-age poputioes; uormally includeu chiidren aged h-il
tie  replaIeThee lovel  un 0    et r     tpiod .c ..ou rune, whet each generatiun         yeuro hut edj-uttd for differect letgths of priry educatios; for
of wuset replaceu itself uanily.  The stutitnnry population aize wus                       counrriestith universal educ--iot e-rollatt oay exceed 10  perce-t
scinstop d on ube basis of the projtcted characrerfuelco of the populatnut                 siuco noPs pupils ore beloe or above tlh  official school age.
in the year 2000. asd the rate of decline of fertility rate to replane-                 fScondary school - total, male end female - luepated as ahove;tecotdory
sent leoel.                                                                                cducation requires at least four perom  of opproved primary instroctionti
Year scat iouuy populatiop is touched - The year =heh  stati onry pupulution                 provides genoral. occurilocl, or nounher fraining tnscructions for popin
sine  ill be reached.                                                                     usually of 12 to 17 yetar of age; correspoudence courses are genecally
Populisioc Lensiur                                                                             excluded.
Per sq kn. - Mid-yeur populatioc per square kilometer (100 hectares) of                  focusiooal enrollnent (percent of senuary) - Vocotinal inetitutioa
outut area; 1961.  1970 ucd 1976 data.                                                   uncude tt;haical. industrial, or other progmano Which oper-te ltdepetd-
Per so. in. agricultural laud - Computeduasaovt for agricultural laud                      etoly or as doparcttccs of uecondury ititutions.
ouly; 1960, 1970 nod 1979 data.                                                       Pupil-teacher retin - primary, and secundary - TPInl studeets eveolled iu
Population Age Strocture (perceut) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-                primary aud secoudary leuels divided by nub.er  of ceachers ic the
64years), sod -etired (65 yearatd over) as per-etugos f cid-yar popu-                      correspondiue      l    ets.
tarion; 19660  1970, and 1990 dat..                                                      Adult literacy rote (percent) - Literate adolts (able to read aed  nitse)
Poptlatioc  Sro-th Rata  (percent) -t totl - Annonl growth rates of -tetl sod-               asapercenttge of to-al adult populati-o aged 15 yeara oud over.
year populatiot for 1950a0. 1960-70, and 1971-0 .
Po -ulurion  toutbh t' Iyercent)  -     .,chau-.A..ul grote -at-s of orban popu-        CONSlePTION
latioso foe 1911516   19h60-70.  aod 1970-80.                                           Pa,"e'gor Cars (per thousaud populutlo-) - Posou-ger c-ru ouprise nono
Crude Birth lose (per thocusat) - honnal live hirths per rhousaud of sod-year                nuns seaig less than eight perso.s; euclodes ahculaecu, hearueu ind
population; 1960, 1970, and 1960 duat.                                                     military -ehicles.
Clads Deuth ate (pe thocand) - A-naal d heshs per thousand  of oid-year                   Radio hoceioors (Pe rthousaud Poyulatiou) - All types of recolours for rudio
populatio_; 1961, 1970, oad 1980 date.                                                     broodcasts to general public per thousond of population; euuirne no-
Grons   prrduciioo Rato - bverage -nnber of d-ughters a consa will btar is                   licna.edr. e: vecs  in torutie s aid in y-urs uheu rcgi-scusiun of radio
her vo-eul reprodiutive period if she epeietesut  presont age-spetifit  fee-               setu was 1n tffett; dato for reteet ycars tay  ot be co-aphbIlsce
rility roses; _ualiy five-_yea  a.-e-geo  enditg is 1960, 1970, aud 1980.                   -    -tountrias abolished   iceuuing.
Fa=ily Plauttng-Acceytors, Anoual (fhnaaaode) - Anu.al supber of noceptoro                TV tncsiveru  (per thOusuud populatiou) - Tf' roeinets fcr brooduast to
of birth-fontrol devites auder naupices of natiol fanily plantug program,                  general public per chousand populatio-; ouIrudes uliceused TV receineru
Pp=ily Pluueog - U-er (pr-cent of mared  an) - Percootuge of macciud                         it  countries end 0n yearu whet registration of TV sets tan is effect.
an  of child-buariog ago (I5-4A  years) wh. ue - irch--oatr-l  devices to               N-.wpapec Circulati-o (per thousand populatcfi) - Shbs the nerage ir-
all nrerd totn  in uausae gou-p.                                                          culselon of "daily general intereutnevapaper'" defined asa per idical
poblicutiot devoted pimarily po tetording feneral evs. It is considered
PFOD AND NUTRITION                                                                             to be 'daily" if it appraro et least four 5i-es ueek.
Itdex of Food Produttion per Capita (1969-71-100) - Indsd of per capitu annwl             Cinema inunal Atteudance per Capicu per Tear-Based Oe the ntsber of
pvoductito  of all t-od coItndito.  Productios eonludes seed Nud toed aud                 tlcketu sold durieg the year. including admsusio.s to drive-is cinecu
iu on raleudar year basiu.  lue           _-dities cover primary go ds (e.g. sugarcate    aed mabile  units.
insteud of Nugir) uhiuh are edible and co -tannustrient (e.g. coffee and
tea are .u..uded).  Aggregate productios of each tountty is baued on                  LAOR FORCE
vational sveruge produc-r price reights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1980 data.                  Total Labor Porno (thousaude) -         i-Iondcaily uctivs persoen, idclodiog
Pee capita supply of calriecs )yerceus of eeoulrooe-to) - Cosputed frau                     arfed forces and ufe-ployed but to -ludieg housewioto, studentu, etc.,
e      "trgy equinalnut of net fond supplIr  available lD .ouptry per capita              coneriug populutios of all  ges.  Deficiocs in variquu cucatriet are
yen day.  ivailahlc supplies coupniso domestic producri-o, imports less                   uot compurable; 1960, 1970 and 1960 data.
exports, aud changeu ialusoci.   rec supplies etalode arfoal feed, seeds,                 Pemale (cerent) - F.-lo lubue forc  as percentage of total labor fovce.
q_atitinuused in food proces ing, and losses oi di_tribuiou.  Requice-                    Agcicultr-  (pprceut) - Labor forog it farming, forescty, huoting aud
.e.ts=re estiT ted by PAO bused no physiological neods for ou-l acti-                       Reuhing aa percoocage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
city aud health conaidering  envibornanal tosperature. body weights, Ogf                  Industry (percent) - Lahor farce in =ining, coenstuction, noufuctring
atd see di-tribu-i-n of pepulsticr, and dllowing 10 purcent  fur .aste at                   and electric- iy, vante and gas as percentage of totul labor force;
ho..ehoId level; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 daua.                                               1960, 1870 aud 190 darn.
Pec capita -upply of prot-in (grap  per day) - Protein content of per capi,.              Participatiou lob  (perceoc) - total.  ele, aud fIolI  - Participstimn or
net supply of food per day. Net supply of food it defiued 00 above.  Rt-                  activity rates urn c-p-uted as total, malt. and fenele labor force us
quiretants fur all countries establiuhed by USDA provida for ndsiniT                      percestages of total, male aod female poplatios of all agen respectively;
allovaeceu of 60 gran of total protein per day and 20 gran  of snipal atd                 1960, 190, and 198f  data.  Theso ate bhsed 00 ILl's par-Iiputio  rates
polio protein, of ehich 10 gram  should bc aeial protain.  These utand-                  reflectiug  sge-sx st..ucte of the pypuIation, and long time trend.  A
ards urn loner than those of 75 grama af uotal protein and 23 grata of                    fe estitatsa aro frot oatiounl sourtas.
auIal protein as an overage for the anrld, propoued by PAO io the Thitd                hconpoic Dependuncy Ratio - Ratio of populatinn under 15 and hI and uovr
Wlorld Pond Survey; 1961-60. 1911 and 1917 date,                                          to the eotal labor force.
Per cpita protein suppyi frou animal an polse - Prutein supPY of uood de-
riced fron aoioalu and pulses in geana per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 duta.          INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Child (ages 1-A) loath lute (vet thonasd) - Annual deth: per thousand it                  Pcrcantage of P.icate Incuse (tbth in c-sh and hind) - locelved by cichesr
age group 1 4 years. to children is this age group; for mst developing uouu-              5 percent. richest 20 percent, ponrest 1f  percteti and poorent 40 perceus
tries data derived froo life  ables; 1960, 1970 end 1980 data.                            of hou.sholds.
HEALTH                                                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROiUP
Life fupectancy at Birth  years) - .gverage  nh-ber of yours of life remaining            The fullosiog estinates at-   very eppronimate seasores of poverty levelo,
at birth; 1960, 1971 ad 1980 data.                                                        ad should be interpreted with co_sidera-bl  cautiou.
Tulset Sortality gate (per tbontand) - Annual deaths of itfo- tunder -oe year             Ietimcted Ab-lute Pnnerty Inuo-e Levef (.S) per cavita) - urban and rural -
of oge per thousand live births; 1960. 1970 and 1980 datu.                                Abeoluto p-terty itcDs lenel is theE income level below which a oiuloal
Aocets to gufc Wator (cercent of puoulation) - toral, urba, and rural - Nue-                  utritiomally adeq_ate diet plus essential nut-fond requiret=ts is nut
bee of people (Eol, urban, asd carol) with reasonable access to safe                      affordahbe.
_anrr supply  (includes  trened  snrfue setors ur ustrouted but tucootaminated          Estited RlatiIe FnYerty lncok-e Letel (US) per capita) -             -rban and rural -
atee uth as that f rot  protnted borehuos, springs, and aaitary wells) ua                 R-al relative p- erty innema level is one-third of average per capita
peroentuges of the r r-apective populations.  It a  arbas aros a public                   proT        incone of the contry.  Ulrb   leel is deriwd frL  therral
founutin or tsudpcst loeatedud t mare thau 200 mtaera fen  a hou.e may he                 level with udjuatmeet for higher neat of liviug in urban areas.
euustdeeed as being eithin teasuDpbls access of thut bhu.e.  Is rural seass             Bseated PtpFletios tefu. Ahoolate FoYerte Iscuss Level f(percest) - urban
re__uable anuesp enuid iply that the buuaesife or  -eb-erm  of the heseeheld              and r=rai - Fercest of population (urb_a ad rural) who are tabslolto
do mar here to speed a disprapors.p oanrs pert of the day  iu fotchiog the
foatlly'a s vter oeads.
anneess to sserets Osarosal (psoteot of nevulutiats) - total, urban, sad ruresi -
Nuate of people (total, urban, aidd rural) seened by secirets disposal as
perieestagee of shelf repaptKinie papaletisasl. taceets diapesel *sp incLlude
theB anilssisem  Isd diawposii with or eleheum  atrtnr,et ad  ns  anieeste
end vsate-tees bypester-hesng syscas or she ass of Pit peteltse and sisi-
lee  gsaltas
Pepstagsee f thbsini.n - peopiatioa ditided by sPdte  sf practisisg phyay     -                                                Rc=eatic sd  Oniel Dues Dieiniw
ciaa qu.alified fete a   dic-al echol an siveraity level, RIe.Lo. Analysis .rd ProJection  Dspartmeet
Poeiatise s  r _retna Perean - Pupulatlio  divided by Pa. af poastiaiag                                                                    tsy 1982
1s sd female geaduat.  anur n, as-isstet t_ss.. pratssi.t eseans sadd
ssrsia; aseilisel-a.



- 23 -                                             ANEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZIMBA3QE
ECNC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODlAf IN 1981 (Preliminary Estimate)          A2IAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROW
(D, constant 1965 prices)
US$ Sm.    %                    1965-70      1970-78     1979-81
GNP at Market Prices            6,406    100.0                    6.2          2.5         8.9 (est)
Gross Dometic Investment        1,466 a   22.9                    9.1         -1.5        17.5 (est)
Gross National Saving             766      12.0                   4.8         -2.9        -0.1 (est)
Current Account Balance          -622     -9.7
Exports of Goods, NFS           1,433     22.4                   -4.3         +3.4        -6.0
Inaorts of Goods, NFS           1,885     29.4                   -3.2         -3.9       +32.1
WMPUI, IABOR ?  AMD AMPLCUnY IN 1981
Value Added              Labor Force                 V.A. Per Wotrer
US$ Mn.        %_           '00       %               US$    % of Average
Agriculture                      1,070       17.8           284    26.9            3,768           66.2
Industry                         2,217      36.9            303    28.7            7,317          128.6
Services                         2,726      45.3            470    44.4            5,800          102.0
Total/Average                 6,013     100.0          1,057    100.0           5,689          100.0
C& & GWIEO            FINANCE b
Z$ MlliUon                                  % of GUp
1978/79     1979/80      1980/81          1978/79      1979/80     1980/81
Ourrent Receipts                     580         676          949             23.4         22.8         25.4
Current Expenditures                 806         971        1,138              32.5        32.8         30.5
Ourrent Surplus                     -226        -295         -189             -9.1        -10.0        -5.1
Capital Expenditures                  54          55           65              3.3          1.9          1.7
External Assistance (net)            129           96          40               5.2         3.2          1.1
MSNEY, CREDIT and PRICES             1976      1977     1978     1979      1980     1981
(.lflime Z$ ostading end period)
Mbney and Quasi Money                 769      810       892      992    1,214    1,399
Bank Credit to Public Sector          211      219       212      199      371       302
Bank Credit to Private Sector         680      730       711      724      827    1,169
(Percentage or Index Nlmbers)
Mney and Quasi Money as % of GD        35       37        38       38        35       32
General Price Index (1964=100) c      161       180      197      223      232       263
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    11.8      11.8      9.4     13.2      4.1      13.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector           57.0      3.8      -3.3     -6.5     86.0      22.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector           5.9      7.4      -2.7      1.8      14.2     41.4
a Including US$450 million of stock build up.
b Fiscal year = July 1 to June 30
c Lwer income group
.. not available
not applicable
May 1982



- 24 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZIMBAWE
TRADE PAYES AND CAPITAL FIXWS
BALAN  OF PAYMNTS (US$ Millions)                               MEREANDISE EXPORS (US$ Millilo and %)
1978  1979  1980   1981                             1975       1979       1981
(US$ Millions)                             Value (%) Value (%) Value (%)
Exports of Goods, NFS      1,060  1,213  1,477  1,433          Agriculture    306 (41)  302 (30)  605 (47)
Inmorts of Goods, NFS        959  1,259  1,635  1,5            Mintng          209 (28)  345 (34)  260 (21)
Resxarce Gap (deficit = -)   101   -46  -158  -452             Manufacturing   228 (31)  356 (36)  420 (32)
Interest Payments (net)       ..    ..    ..    ..                      Total 743(100) 1,003(100) 1,289(100)
Workers' Remittances         -55   -70   -22   -104
Other Factor Payments (net)   ..
Net Transfers                -40   -35   -64   -65             EXERA  DEBT, DEM1 R 31, 1981
Balance al Current AcoDunt     6  -151  -244  -621                                            US$ MLn.
Direct Foreign Investn2nt      ..    ..    ..    30
Net MLT Borrwing              ..    ..    ..                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1,318
Disbursements               ..    ..            352          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt        ..
Auxrtization                ..    ..    ..    94             Total Outstandirg & Disbursed    1,318
Subtotal                    ..    ..    ..   258
Capital Grants                ..    ..    ..   119             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 a
Other Capital (net            ..    ..    ..    ..%
Other Items n.e.i.            43   131   197
Increase in Reserves (+)      49   -2D   -47  -215             Public Debt, incl. garanteed      8.0
Non-kuaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)     ..    ..   331   300
Net Reserves (end year)      139   237   331    86
Fuel & Related Materials
laports                     141   256   301   318
of which: Petrole.         120   230   277   288
Exports                      12    15       6      5
Of which: Petrolen           -      -      -      -
BMD/IDA IflUDfrE, Sept 30, 1982 (US$ Million)
RATES OF EXCHAN  (Anrual Average)                                                               IBMD   D1Ak
1979  1980  1981
US$1.00 =Z$       0.68   0.63   0.69                           Outstandirg & Disbursed          95.50  12.97
Z$1.00 = US$      1.48   1.59   1.45                          Undisbursed                       38.04  31.10
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    133.54  44.07
a Ratio of Estimated Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
.. not available
. not applicable
December 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZIMBABWE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO ZIMBABWE
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit
No.    No.       Year   Borrower          Purpose                  Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and one credit fully disbursed                         137.70  15.00         -
1994             1981   Zimbabwe          Transport Reha-
bilitation Imports       42.00   -           34.46
2212 a           1983   Zimbabwe          Electricity Supply
Power Commission        105.00              105.00
2239             1983   Zimbabwe          Manufacturing Export
Promotion                70.60               55.07
1291     1982   Zimbabwe          AFC Small Farm
-     30.40        30.40
1296 a   1982   Zimbabwe          Petroleum Fuels Supply
Technical Assistance      -       1.20        1.20
Total                                             355.30  46.60       226.13
of which has been repaid                        84.41   -
270.89
Amounts sold                          41.99
of which has been repaid            40.99         1.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    269.89  46.60         -
TOTAL undisbursed                               194.53  31.60       226.13
(
a Not yet effective



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN ZIMBABWE
(As of March 31, 1983)
Investment                                 Type of               US$ Million Equivalent
Number        Year                         Business              Loan              Equity
552-ZIM       1981   Wankie Colliery
Company Limited      Coal Mining             38.0               -
Total gross commitments                      38.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    18.0
Total now held by IFC                        20.0
Total now undisbursed                        12.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
ZIMBABWE
C. STATUS OF BANK AND IDA PROJECTS IN EXECUTTON
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan No. 1959-ZIM    Manufacturing Rehabilitation Imports Program:  US$50
Credit No. 1120-ZIM  million and US$15 million, respectively, of April 9,
1981; Effectiveness Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1982
The loan and credit have financed priority import requirements of
raw materials, spare parts, components and balancing equipment needed to
utilize idle capacity in the manufacturing sector. The program was
implemented by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. The loan and credit are
already fully disbursed. It is too early to assess the full impact of the
loan and credit, nevertheless, during the loan and credit period,
manufactured output increased by almost 10 percent. However, because of a
shortfall in the availability of foreign exchange, full reconstruction of
the sector is unlikely to be achieved.
Loan No. 1994-ZIM    Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program:  US$42 mil-
lion, of June 22, 1981; Effectiveness Date: June 26,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program Loan is providing
for locomotive and wagon spare parts, electrical spare parts, general spare
parts, machines and tools, signalling equipment, service vehicles, track
tools and equipment, and technical assistance for the National Railways of
Zimbabwe and the Central Mechanical Equipment Department. The departure
rate of skilled staff has increased far beyond the level expected at loan
appraisal, resulting in additional need for technical assistance. Conse-
quently, in addition to the US$6.8 million for technical assistance estim-
ated at loan appraisal, another US$7.1 million has been reallocated to that
category. Since NRZ anticipates a considerable long-term technical assist-
ance requirement from 1984 onward, a special railway technical assistance
(           and training project, for which Bank assistance has been requested, is
being processed.
Credit No. 1291-ZIM Small Farm Credit Project: US$30.4 Million, of
November 17, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 10,
1983; Closing Date June 30, 1986
The project is providing through AFC seasonal credit for seeds,
fertilizer and chemicals, medium-term credit for farm improvement and
equipment; plus facilities and technical assistance to AFC in support of
its expansion of small farm credit.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 1296-ZIM Petroleum Fuels Supply Technical Assistance Project:
US$1.2 Million, of November 17, 1982; Effectiveness
Date: April 14, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for economic and engineering studies of
petroleum fuels supply options available to Zimbabwe, recommending the
preferred system, taking into account cost, suitability and reliability of
supply. The study also would recommend improvements in the procurement,
pricing and internal distribution of petroleum fuels, plus financing
training.
Loan No. 2212-ZIM    Power Project: US$105 Million of February 9, 1983;
Effectiveness Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project provides for enhancing electric generating capacity
through extension of the Hwange Thermal Power Station. It also includes
construction of a transmission line, technical assistance and training.
Loan No. 2239         Manufacturing Export Promotion Project: US$70.6
Million of March 9, 1983; Effectiveness Date:
March 28, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project provides foreign exchange to finance priority import
requirements of raw materials, spare parts components balancing equipment
and export promotional services for export manufacturing industries.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
ZIMBABWE
D. STATUS OF IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of March 31, 1983)
Wankie Colliery Company Limited (WCCL)            552-ZIM
IFC's first investment in Zimbabwe, a loan of US$38 million
(gross) together with US$10 million arranged by IFC to cover the medium-
term maturities on an EximBank package, helped finance a US$191 million ex-
pansion of HCCL's coal mining operations, principally to supply a thermal
power plant. The financial plan included US$51 million of cash generation
and US$14 million to be raised by a rights offering. In view of the diffi-
culty a rights offering would face in the current stock market environment
in Zimbabwe, the Government has agreed to make an equity investment in the
Company to replace the rights issue. Under the terms negotiated, the Gov-
ernment has purchased shares equivalent to 40 percent of the Company's
equity and has nominated five out of the ten directors, including the
chairman.



-30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time t-aken to prepare project               12 months
(b)  Preparation                                  November 1981
(c)  First Bank mission to consider project    May 1982
(d)  Appraisal Mission departed                   September 1982
(e)  Negotiations                                 April 4-7, 1983
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness                August 31, 1983
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would budget the necessary resources to maintain
specified student enrollment capacities at its agricultural col-
leges and institutes (para. 41).
(b)  Beginning with September 1983, the Government would reduce the
training period at the agricultural institutes from three to two
years and not lower starting salaries (para. 41).
(c)  AGRITEX would propose recommendations to reorganize its Technical
Services Division (para. 45).
(d) AGRITEX would propose recommendations for a new simplified pro-
vincial extension structure (para. 46).
(e) AGRITEX would prepare schedules for extension workers (para. 47).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) The Government would alter the composition of the Agricultural
Research Council by January 1, 1984, and would include communal
farmers to make it fully representative (para. 52).
(g) AGRITEX and R&SS would prepare annual work plans indicating the
next year's plan in detail (para. 70).
.






,--.~ 1r    z                    M                B A  B   WEdRUARY  983
ZIMBABWE
COMMUNAL AREAS AND NATURAL REGIONS                                                                           j                                                     . .,y
-16- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        -
NA6TLRAL RE0ONS                  -       M,le, Ro-ds                                                                                        \\  i\       .\<     <       \
-LI-5u   Spee,I,oezd ond 0 oers find      -n--t- Re, nays                                                                                                               S  \ is  o\ \\> 
Fotesine Fg.g Region          t          -  R seeo                                                                              0C1t05         onsSJ4.\,o A> ii \^ ss>\\s
_I finiOpnig Rngi-__U
|CIS - nt51ar ay pneoade/seeosoni  - -       Mao  -nenlrosl Joundes                                            Pv  A "                                                       \  (      ,.   ;X,  \ ,  '. \,ON> i'- >
Sib   lssTemtese F-o a-gRa9iol I         .-...--  een  oo   o  'aes V1            /
16< 5e1ens VRy  nrodsgil/sgnast                        t,4\      hon)A-r--->/                                                                         siJ   , \  \ ..... \  7
-                  < Sen-rnesFsegRgn4
BOTWAA       s              T t   Ai biu?         22650 800 ens snofl R,yi,    l\                                                                                 \               <;-\>                                                                  2
FSensoc- Fanni g Region                                            Q
7   COMMUNAL AREAS 
NAAAIBIA                          o(sk
(1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
RCTSWANA    N~~~~~~~NNtl
onUthe   \              2e;stA ot esoew 1COWnz Onflnvndo.r- ~ea  e   Osen annon Os mcey On eO                          T7  H A F RnIC np32
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _R__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _



q-         I



I BRD 16940k
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P I- ,                                                                                 92CEi
I) ShbOLA  r j      .gAX1   A C_WtXZ I M  B A  B W    E
I                  R r tY (G>S9A /          AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SlATIONS
05  I k    jTOoOO.                                                                                                                   0  Z I
Z A  MB            A'                                                       . I,VD/,--'' A         -
NI            , ( i                                                                                               L                       MOZAMBIOU 
BOTSWANA                      MA o t       16         E                                                                                                                     1-
MAT POS R ,SARC , STATO                     PI000r 00  oooo  roo
T ir .MA KAI  eL  Wp Id S ON se
t                                                             nn Che le tRz sA/UE o any lernl  t or mnk end oemht or accepean .! such toOnAReosK                          r   ORegoN                 Ii,_ 
BO TSWANA   )                      M A TAR B               . - HPiliXX\                                 .,<
I HEND RSON RESEARCH STSTATIOa                                 Ae
-20-    RASS ANUS RSFFARCEN STATION.            \. d- ,                                                                                                              Cs'
.- R       ARARE RESEAR CH CUSTER\ti
HCOTTON RSEARCH INSTITUTESIATIO
HEPMATOSiNS     RESEAR CHS STAT  TN         !                        I% b  P,
' /3MANMA,IO0 [XPFR MENT STATION             To N ofJRAA,
7 CHIREUZ  RESEARCH STAT OSNT,R
U CHISAMBUNJE EORERIMENT STATION          )|
tt                                                                       E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SARI VAr I ET FXPRERIMEMT STATION clompo| 7\               vG:lA     '                              .\       e(                       ,
10 HORTICULTURAL RESEARCH RESTER  .   ;  .w
11 RAODESINYANGA EPETRIMRNTSIATIONi
-CHIRINSiA COFERE RESEARCH, STATION                               IP  .It  --I-I.b!!                                                     -  
IS PANMURF FXPFRIMENT STATICS                   N                                                                    'J>-        
I .GWFE AVAFIETY TESTINGJ CENTER                     " '.'Q:F:!L^                                                     65\'/                                     <-
Jr0 NUANETS RAXPER MEENT STATION Ic 0000,1               _              >t                         \0                                   
S7 NCAMANDHLOVI E EXPERRIMNT STATION S il--    d-,/
-22'     ULO                50 METERSARIO  1R5C0 BOTSWANA                                                                                                   H R  SRACE ROADS  22'
MILES I          E      ' '                                                                      SrbrdI(eio  o)'                        -r--  RAILROADS
U               U0             RU N0-~'~x ,                                                                                          1-   AIRFIELDS
SA    0      T    AFRCA                                            RISERSI
2'                 S O U T H       A F R I C A                         A    -     PRO NCIAI BOUNDAR ES
26S'                                    23- 55-                                                                                  INTERNA r ONAL BOUNQADIIFS
I         L        _             .                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



