Report No. 4305-ZIM
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 16, 1983
Appraised on behalf of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development
by The World Bank
The World Bank
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without the authorization of both the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and The World Bank.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1    =     0.91  Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$)
Z$1     =     1.09  US$
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)          =  2.47 Acres
1 Kilometer (km)        =  0.624 Miles
1 Sq. Kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 Sq. Miles = 100 ha
1 Kilogram              =  2.2046 Pounds
I Metric ton (ton)      =  1,000 = 2,204.6 Pounds
1 Litre                 =  1.057 US Quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC         =  Agricultural Finance Corporation
AGRITEX     =  Department of Agricultural Technical Services and Extension
AMA         =  Agricultural Marketing Association
APAEO       =  Assistant Provincial Agricultural Extension Officer
ARDA        =  Agricultural Rural Development Authority
CART        =  Communal Area Research Trials
CIMMYT      =  International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CMB         =  Cotton Marketing Board
CMED        =  Central Mechanical Equipment Department
cO          =  Conservation Officer
CONEX       =  former Department of Conservation and Extension
CSC         =  Cold Storage Commission
DEVAG       =  former Department of Agricultural Development
DMB         =  Dairy Marketing Board
ES          =  Extension Supervisor
EW          =  Extension Worker
FSR         =  Farming Systems Research
GMB         =  Grain Marketing Board
IBPGR       =  International Board for Plant Genetic Resources
ICIPE       =  International Center of Insect Physiology and Ecology
ICRISAT     =  International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics
IDRC        =  International Development Research Center
IITA        =  International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
ILCA        =  International Livestock Center for Africa
ILRAD       =  International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases
MLRRD       =  Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rural Development
MNS         = Ministry of National Supplies
MOA         =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOC         =  Ministry of Construction
PAEO        =  Provincial Agricultural Extension Officer
PSC         =  Public Service Commission
REO         =  Regional Extension Officer
R & SS      =  Department of Research and Specialist Services
RA          =  Research Assistant
RT          =  Research Technician
SES         =  Senior Extension Supervisor
SMS         =  Subject Matter Specialist
TMB         =  Tobacco Marketing Board
GOZ Fiscal Year      July 1 - June 30



ZIMBABWE                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I  BACKGROUND . 9 aaaaaaaaaae                aaaaeaaaaaaaaea a                       1
A. The Project  ...................................         .....a.. .          I
B. Brief Overview of the Economy a ....               a...   aaaa... a          1
C. The Agricultural Sector oa aaa .........a.............eaa                    2
II. THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL SERVICES AND
EXTENSION (AGRITEX) .................... a.............a.                        9
A. Background a -aa -aaaaa ............a...a.a.a....a                           9
B. Organizational Structure                                          ...a,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.  10
C. Management  a...a a a.....a.a.a.a.a.a.a...a.a a   aae                       10
D. Present Staffing and Administration              ..aaaaaaaaaaaaaa           10
E. Technical Services .....                ............... a a  .........aa    12
F . Field Services  . .a.  . .a a a. aO a .. a . . a . a  . . . . . . . . . a a a a  .a  . .a. .a. .   13
G. Liaison with Research  a..aa.... aa.aaaaaaaa,aa...... so a.a                14
H. Recurrent and Capital Budgets aaaaaaaaaaaaaa......           .aaa.          15
III. THE DEPARTMENT OF RESEARCH AND SPECIALIST SERVICES
(R & SS) a...a...a.......a.a .......a..aa..a....aaaaaa aa.a.......              16
A. Background  a.a.a aa*a  .. sa a.. aasaa oa a a.a.a.a.aoaaa a..aa   a.a.a    16
B. Organizational Structure .........a .... ...a.......aaaaaa   aaaaaa         17
C. Management   saaa. aaaa .a.a   a a..a. a. ao*aeaoa..                        17
D. Present Staffing and Administration  a. aa..a            aa.....a......aa   17
E. Crop Research Division a a*.a.a.a.aa        a      a.        aa...... a.. a....  19
F. Livestock and Pastures Division   aaaaa...........a.......                  20
G. Research Services Division   a.            ,a ...aa    a... aaaaaa...aaaaa  20
H. Associations with other Research Organizations  .........                   20
I. Recurrent and Capital Budgets aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa,aa.....                      21
IV. THE PROJECT .............oaaa            aa.............................         21
A. Objectives and Rationale             aa ...aa.....................a...aa    21
B. Staff Projections                   ...a...aa.......aaaa  o.aaa.a..........  22
C. Summary Description aaaaaaaaaaaaaa.aaaaa...aaa......a...                    23
D. Detailed Features . .....................aa a    a     ..aa ..aa ..a   a a a a a  24
E. Project Costs . ...a aa a         .......... a a a     . a a  . ....a  . ....a  31
F. Financing Plan                        . a a  .......   ..aaaaaaaaaa         32
G. Government Cash Flow  ..... a a     aaaaa.... a        .. a aaaa .a         34
H. Procurement  .......    a a. . a* a . a.aa   . aaa, aaa   a.   a aaaaa      34
1. Disbursement a.. a      a* . aa a.....             a a*aa*.a.a.a..a*a. * ..  a..aa.  35
J. Accounts and Audit  a..aa..aa..aa ..aa       ...a ..aa..aa..aa.aaa          36
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Zimbabwe
in September 1982, which was followed by a post-appraisal mission in
December 1982. The appraisal mission was composed of Ma Staab,
J. Greenfield, C. Hamann, I. Moreithi, and R. Nelson (World Bank).
A. Kesseba (IFAD) and Ba Woods (World Bank) joined the post-appraisal
mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................. .     ................ .  36
A. Organization and Management ..................                  36
B. Civil Works .....37
C. Transport                                        ..........     37
D. Research Trials                                                 38
E. Implementation Schedule                                         38
F. Supervision ............D**          ...............*......    38
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..................39
A. Introduction ...39
B. Justifn cation ........  ..  ..... ....... so ... *. ... ..s...e   39
C* B    ieks*......... Rs...s  41
D. Beneficiaries                                                   41
E. Environmental Impact  ....................... ........ .    41
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................. es.    42
CHARTS
C-1  Ministry of Agriculture - Organizational Structure ....    44
C-2  Department of Agricultural Technical Services and
Extension - Organizational Structure .................    45
C-3  Department of Research and Specialist Services -
Organizational Structure                        *es* .....    46
C-4  Implementation Schedule                            .......    47
TABLES
T-1  Agricultural Education (Past and Present Student
Output) 0 ..00..00..                  .........               48
T-2  Agricultural Education (Projected Output)               ...    49
T-3  AGRITEX: Staff Establishment and Vacancies by
Province                                             ....    50
T-4  AGRITEX: Extension Staff Densities by Province ........    51
T-5  AGRITEX: Recurrent Budget (1982/83)   .04060 ...... .....      52
T-6  R & SS: Recurrent Budget (1982/83) ......**............    53
T-7  Staff Projections: Extension Workers   ......  sees ....    54
T-8  Staff Projections: Extension Supervisors                       55
T-9  Staff Projections: Senior Extension Supervisors .......    56
T-1O Staff Projections: Extension Officers ..e.....oooooe.    57
T-11 Staff Projections: Regional Extension Officers ........    58
T-12 Staff Projections: Extension Specialists  ......:.....    59
T-13 Staff Projections: Research Officers e**...                    60
T-14 Staff Projections: Research Technicians ...........o.    61
T-15 Cost Estimates: Extension Program - Capital Costs .....    62
T-16 Cost Estimates: Extension Program - Recurrent Costs            63
T-17 Cost Estimates: Extension Program - In-Service
Training Equipment                            ........ ..     64



- iii -
Page No.
T-18  Cost Estimates: Extension Program - Pilot
Schemes, (Equipment) ......     ..........................  65
T-19  Cost Estimates: Research program - Civil Works .......   66
T-20  Cost Estimates: Research Program - Vehicles ..........    67
T-21  Cost Estimates: Research Program - Equipment    .........   68
T-22  Cost Estimates: Research Program - Technical
Assistance and Consultancy         ..........................   69
T-23  Cost Estimates: Research Program - Recurrent Costs ...   70
T-24  Cost Estimates: Extension and Research Programs -
Summary by Functional Categories .. ...... .... ... ..    74
T-25 Cost Estimates: Extension and Research programs
Summary by Input Categories         .........................    76
T-26  Government Cash Flow *................................    77
T-27  Proposed Allocation of IFAD and Bank loans      ...........   78
T-28  Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . ...........*.....*.....*... 79
ANNEXES
1.  Technical Packages and the Communal Areas ................      80
2. AGRITEX:  Technical Service Branches .....................       84
3.  R & SS: Research Divisions      ...............................  86
4.  Selected Documents in Project File .....     ..................  88
MAPS
IBRD Map 17003   -  Communal Areas and Natural Regions
IBRD Map 16940 R - Agricultural Research Stations






I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project
1.01      The Project was originally defined by an IFAD Project
Identification and Programming Mission which visited Zimbabwe in April/May
1981. An IFAD follow-up mission visited Zimbabwe in September/October
1981, and, in November/December, the FAO/Investment Center and IFAD mounted
a joint Preparation Mission. Based on the findings of the Preparation
Mission, a Preparation Report was prepared and issued by FAQ/ISP in March
1982. The World Bank appraised the Project in September 1982 and sent a
post-appraisal mission, assisted by IFAD, to Zimbabwe in December 1982.
Bank co-financing with IFAD was proposed when it became apparent, during
the course of preparation, that the Project would be fairly large in scope
as well as of fundamental importance in the Government's overall sectoral
development strategy. The Project that has evolved comprises the national
programs for agricultural extension and research over the next four years
(1983/84 - 1986/87) and the strengthening of the respective implementing
organizations, Agricultural Technical Services and Extension (AGRITEX) and
Research and Specialist Services (R & SS), both of which are departments
within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
B. Brief Overview of the Economy
1.02      Zimbabwe, a landlocked country, has a land area of approximately
39 million ha. A new population census has just been completed and
preliminary results indicate a population of 7.5 million. Approximately
20% of the population resides in urban areas of which about 70% live in the
three main urban centers of Harare, its adjacent new township, Chitungwiza,
and Bulawayo.
1.03      The country is self-sufficient in primary food products (maize,
meat, wheat and oil seeds) and exports substantial quantities of maize,
cotton fibre and tobacco. Total agricultural exports (including processed
goods) reached Z$427 million in 1981. Zimbabwe is also an important
producer and exporter of ferrochrome, nickel, asbestos and gold. Over the
past 15 years, the manufacturing sector has grown substantially. In 1981,
manufacturing output accounted for 26% of GDP as compared with mining (5%)
and agriculture and forestry (18%). Total manufacturing exports reached
Z$228 million in 1981. About 75% of Zimbabwe's total energy requirements
are supplied from local sources, principally hydro-electric power and
coal.
1.04      During 1981, GDP at factor cost grew at about 12% in real terms
compared to about 11% in 1980 and reached Z$4,147 million. Per capita GDP
in 1981 is estimated at about Z$550. Total exports in 1981 were Z$1,002
million, 8.0% higher in value terms than in 1980. However, imports grew
much more rapidly giving Zimbabwe its first negative trade balance in 14
years. Inflation in Zimbabwe is currently about 17% per annum. GDP growth
in 1982 is expected to be much lower than in 1981, somewhere between 3% and
5% in real terms. In December 1982, the Government devalued its currency
by about 20%.



-2-
1.05      The structure of the economy is markedly dualistic.  On the one
hand, there is a fairly advanced modern commercial, industrial, mining and
agricultural sector, and on the other, there is the rural peasant sector
which is mostly underdeveloped and experiencing heavy population pressure.
At the time of Independence in April 1980, only about 6,000 commercial
farmers (white Zimbabweans of European origin) controlled most of the more
fertile half of the agricultural land (referred to as the Commercial
Areas), while close to 4.0 million black Zimbabweans lived on the balance
(formerly called Tribal Trust Lands (TTLS), now referred to as Communal
Areas). The Communal Areas are shown in Map IBRD 17003. Over the years,
public and private investments have been concentrated largely in the modern
sector with the result that there is a large labor-productivity
differential between workers in the modern and rural peasant sectors,
causing large differences in income and employment opportunities between
these two sectors. The biggest development challenge facing Zimbabwe at
the present time is how to bring the majority of the population into the
mainstream of economic growth while maintaining and, if possible, expanding
the productive capacity and strength of the commercial/agricultural and
industrial sectors.
C. The Agriculture Sector
1.06      Topography, Climate, Soils and Land Capability.  There are four
main topographic areas in the country: (i) the highveld, a plateau at an
altitude of about 1,300 m, running through the center of the country from
southwest to northeast; (ii) the middleveld, at about 900 m, extending on
either side of the highveld, (iii) the lowveld, at about 500 m, located in
the southeast and northwest corners of the country, and (iv) a high
altitude ridge running along the eastern border with Mozambique.
1.07      Superimposed on this landscape is a rainfall pattern which is not
entirely related to altitude, and which falls off from north to south, from
about 1,000 mm in the north to about 300 mm in the south. Rainfall is
monomodal, from about October to March, sometimes with a mid-season dry
spell around January. The most influential climatic characteristic for
agriculture is the combination of a warm, wet summer, and a cold, dry
winter. In 1960, on the basis of the adequacy and reliability of the
rainfall, five climatic zones were identified to which the term Natural
Regions was applied (Map IBRD 17003). Soil fertility and the potential of
the soils for cropping were not taken into account in the definition of the
Regions but the soils and natural vegetation were identified and described.
1.08      About two-thirds of the country is covered with sandy soils
characterized not only by low natural fertility but also poor
water-retention capacity. In general, the best agricultural soils are
found in the north-central-northeastern quarter of the country. As these
better soils also occur mainly in Natural Regions II and III, it is not
surprising that this is the most productive rainfed cropping zone in
Zimbabwe. A study of land use potential carried out in 1980 divided
Zimbabwe into five capability classes. It concluded that one-quarter of
the land is well suited to crop production, another quarter is only
marginal, and half is of little or no value for crops. This study also
found that, of the land suitable for cultivation, less than 30Z in the
Commercial Areas and 40% in the Communal Areas is in fact cropped. A more
recent study has delineated the uncultivated but apparently cultivable land
in the Communal Areas, indicating that as much as 2.4 million ha may be



-3-
available for cultivation in areas of fair to good agricultural potential.
This additional land could be very significant for the development of the
Communal Areas. However, the extent to which this land is truely an
underutilized resource needs further study, in particular ground truthing
of aerial photography. A semi-detailed soil mapping of the Communal Areas
is also lacking. tt present the Communal Areas are covered only by a
reconnaissance soi_ survey at a scale of 1:1,000,000 with no information on
erosion hazzards.
1.09      Performance.  In 1981, agriculture contributed an estimated 18
percent of GDP, the total value of agricultural production was US$1,070
million (Z$738 million) and agricultural exports reached US$605 million
(Z$420 million), constituting 47% of total exports. This performance is
largely accounted for by the commercial farms; less than 20% of the value
of total agricultural production comes from the Communal Areas and of this
amount, about 24% is marketed. Most of the production in the Communal
Areas is for subsistence, although recently many of these areas have not
been self-sufficient in food.
1.10      About 75% of the country's population derives its income from
agriculture, and approximately 50% of the manufacturing industry is
dependent to some degree on agricultural production. Agriculture also
accounts for about 30% of all formal employment.
1.11      Structure.  There are essentially three sub-sectors within the
agricultural sector:
- 5,800 large-scale commercial farmers on 15 million ha under
freehold title;
- 8,500 small-scale commercial farmers on 1.5 million ha under
tenancy or freehold title; and
- 840,000 farm families on 16 million ha in the Communal Areas with
tenure based on traditional rights assigned by the local chiefs.
1.12      Commercial Areas.  An advanced agricultural technology, adapted
by research and experience to the special requirements of the regions with
high and assured rainfall, combined with a favorable price support policy
and excellent marketing and technical services, have resulted in average
yields for grain crops, cotton and tobacco in the Commerical Areas which
rank among the highest in the world. The main crops grown in these regions
are tobacco, maize, wheat, coffee, cotton and soyabeans. Tobacco is the
most valuable crop, usually grown in rotation with maize and a grass fallow
for nematode control. It is estimated that about 20% of the cropped land
is irrigated from dams, principally with sprinklers, to greatly increase
the cropping intensity and to stabilize the yields. Irrigation is used to
plant early maize, soyabean and tobacco and to supplement the summer
rainfall during periods of drought. It is also used for the production of
winter wheat and barley. Milk production too, is generally carried out in
the high rainfall areas on farms which usually have some supplementary
irrigation. Mixed farming is carried out on the commercial farms in the
drier areas with less reliable rainfall in Region III, involving the
integrated production of crops and livestock.



- 4 -
1.13      Small-Scale Commercial Areas.  The agricultural production
systems on the small-scale commercial farms are based on a relatively high
level of production for the market. Over two-thirds of the land is sown
with grain crops, the balance consisting of industrial crops like cotton
and tobacco. The farmers are registered as producers with the Grain
Marketing and other Marketing Boards (para. 1.20), and have the advantages
of organized transportation and marketing, with levels of extension support
higher than those in the Commercial Areas and credit available from the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) (para. 1.28). One in eight such
farmers has a tractor ploughing on neighbour's land, and there are, on
average, five trained oxen on each farm. Farming systems and crop
rotations in general, are similar to those practised in the Commercial
Areas but-the area cropped is less and yields are lower.
1.14      Co munal Areas (Map IBRD 17003).  The Communal Areas derive their
name from the fact that there is communal grazing of livestock. In all
other respects,the farms are individually owned and managed on land that is
assigned by the hereditary chiefs. There are substantial differences in
the production systems between the different regions in the Communal Areas,
particularly between the pastoral systems of the Matabele in the south-west
and the predominantly agricultural systems of Mashonaland. There are also
wide differences between farmers, in relation to availability of land and
labor as well as farm management capability and motivations.
1.15      The main crops grown on farms in the Communal Areas are maize,
cotton, sorghum, millet and groundnuts; sorghum and millet are often
substituted for maize in the regions with marginal soil and low and erratic
rainfall. The present yields are low, with maize averaging about 700 kg/ha
in Natural Region III, 500 kg/ha in Natural Region IV and 300 kg/ha in
Natural Region V. Ploughing is done mostly with draft-oxen. Only about
50% of all farm families own cattle but all have some goats, sheep or
poultry. The large herds which occur mainly in Matabeleland usually
support a small number of family groups.
1.16      The fact that over 50% of the total population and about 70% of
the rural population lives in the Communal Areas, is of crucial
lmportance. Even if resettlement were to occur at presently planned rates,
which seems unlikely (para. 1.19), it would just barely keep up with rural
population growth. Raising incomes, therefore, for the vast majority of
rural inhabitants depends mainly on improving agricultural production in
the Communal Areas.
1.17      Equally significant is the fact that over 90% of the Communal
Areas are located in the relatively low rainfall zones of Natural Regions
III, IV and V (Map IBRD 17003). In the past, the Government treated these
areas as marginal agricultural land. In fact Natural Region III was
regarded as the border zone for crops; Natural Region IV was recommended
for mostly livestock with some cropping in a few areas; and Natural
Region V was recommended exclusively for ranching or irrigation. Natural
Region II, where most of the large-scale commercial farms are located, was
viewed as the national granary which could feed the entire country.
1.18      If development is to be widespread and benefit the majority of
the population, then this geographical pattern of economic growth must
change. Furthermore, the country can no longer afford to ignore the



- 5 -
agricultural potential of Natural Regions III, IV and V. Compared to many,
parts of the world, with similar or even less favorable natural resource
endowments, these regions are not doing nearly as well as they could.
During the 1970's, average annual production in the Communal Areas actually
declined (para. 6.07). Much can, and should, be done to increase
agricultural production in the Communal Areas (Annex 1).
1.19      Settlement.  As land in the Commercial Areas becomes available
for sale, the Government has been purchasing this land and transferring it
to interested persons and/or collectives for the purpose of establishing
farms.  The Government has been giving this land to the unemployed, the
landless and refugees returning from the war but recently announced that
interested farmers from the Communal Areas would also be eligible to
receive land under this program.  Farm sizes for individual families
average about 25 ha with about 5 ha under crops. Some collective farms,
with about 200 members each, have also been established. The Government's
present target is to settle some 162,000 families over the next three
years, which is very ambitious. The program is being implemented by the
Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rural Development (MLRRD).
1.20      Marketing.  One of the major features of the commercial
agricultural sector is its strictly controlled statutory marketing system.
All of the major products are marketed through four statutory boards: the
Grain Marketing Board (GMB), the Cotton Marketing Board (CMB), the Dairy
Marketing Board (DMB), and the Cold Storage Commission (CSC). A fifth
statutory board, the Tobacco Marketing Board (TMB) exercises a general
control over marketing without taking possession of the product. The other
boards pay fixed prices for the commodities delivered to them, maintain
facilities for storage and processing, and undertake a number of other
marketing-related functions. The Agricutural Marketing Authority (AMA) is
responsible for controlling the activities of all the statutory marketing
boards except TMB.
1.21      By and large, farmers in the Communal Areas have been unable to
avail themselves of the benefits of this system. With very few exceptions,
the intake facilities of the Boards have been based on the railway network
and therefore oriented towards the Commercial Areas. Under these
circumstances, marketing services for all crops from the Communal Areas
have been provided principally by the 331 cooperative societies presently
engaged in agricultural marketing and input supply (para. 1.26). Recently,
USAID provided MLRRD with US$3.5 million to be on-lent to cooperatives for
the construction of rural depots. Such facilities ought to considerably
improve the marketing situation in the Communal Areas.
1.22      Input Supply.  Input supply to the commercial farming areas has
been available through a combination of services provided by the fertilizer
and pesticide companies, as well as by the farmers' associations and
marketing boards. However, these services have been generally lacking in
the Communal Areas.
1.23      Most of the production and marketing of fertilizer is handled by
two companies, strictly on a commercial basis. A discount is available to
customers buying quantities in excess of one ton, and a further discount to



-6-
farmers taking early delivery of the fertilizer. These terms inevitably
favour the large-scale commercial farmers; peasant farmers do not normally
buy large quantities, nor do they have storage facilities to buy early.
1.24      Given these disadvantages faced by the Communal Area farmers, the
cooperative societies and organized farmer groups (para. 1.26) fulfill an
important role in the procurement and distrubution of agricultural inputs.
They provide the main distribution network in the Communal Areas for the
supply of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and other inputs.
1.25      The procedures for input supply through cooperatives require
primary societies to estimate the requirements of their members for the
different items and to place the order with the provincial union. The
latter bulks the orders, and thereby gets the benefit of bulk discounts.
Fertilizer is by far the most important input handled. In this case, the
provincial unions buy it on credit, obtain an early delivery rebate
(provided there are adequte storage facilities) and then distribute it to
the farmers just before the planting season. In pricing the inputs
supplied, the unions apply a mark-up, one-third of which is retained by
them, and the remainder is passed on to the primary society.
1.26      Cooperatives.  The Government has clearly stated its commitment
to the establishment of cooperatives in all fields of productive
enterprise. At present, however, the agricultural marketing and input
supply cooperatives are by far the most important type. As of the end of
1980, they represented 343 of the 376 societies registered; 87% of the
agricultural cooperatives are situated in the Communal Areas. The
promotion of cooperative development is the responsibility of the
Cooperatives Department within MLRRD. It is not clear, however, how the
Government intends to reconcile its strong commitment to promoting
cooperatives on the one hand, with, on the other, its expressed policy
to allow cooperatives to emerge voluntarily and to operate autonomously
from the Government. The Government's policy in this area is still in the
process of evolving. In addition to the formal cooperative organizations in
the rural areas, unregistered groups (savings clubs, master farmer clubs,
etc.) have become increasingly popular. It is estimated that there are
about 1,000 savings clubs in the country today with which extension workers
are able to work and which make it easier for members to buy inputs.
1.27      Pricing Policy.  Producer and consumer prices for the main
agricultural products are set by the Government. Producer prices are based
primarily on the commercial cost of production and so far, with the
exception of groundnut prices, have been relatively close to the equivalent
border prices. On the other hand, the Government has pursued a cheap food
policy, keeping consumer prices artificially low. The result has been a
sharp increase in required budgetary subsidies for the marketing boards.
(para. 1.34).
1.28      Credit. Credit from the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
has been available for some time to the Commercial, Small-Scale Commercial,
and the more advanced master farmers in the Communal Areas. Recently AFC
has begun to lend to smallholders in the Communal Areas. A recently
approved IDA credit is directed at assisting AFC in this new area.



1.29      Support Services. MOA through its departments -- AGRITEX, R & SS,
and Veterinary Services, is responsible for providing agricultural
extension, research and veterinary services (Chart 1). A detailed
discussion of the first two departments, which are the principal executing
agencies for the Project, are presented in Chapters II and III for AGRITEX
and R & SS respectively.
1.30      Agricultural Education.  MOA is responsible for providing all
formal, middle level agricultural education in Zimbabwe (Chart 1). There
are two levels of training : diploma and certificate. Diploma training is
provided by the two agricultural colleges at Gwebi and Chibero, which offer
a two-year program leading to a national diploma. Together these two
colleges currently graduate about 80 students annually. Certificate
training is provided by the three agricultural institutes: Mlezu, Esigodini
and Rio Tinto which offer a three-year program. Rio Tinto is operated by
the Rio Tinto Mining Company and is a fully accredited institute, offering
the same three-year training program as Mlezu and Esigodini. Together, the
three institutes graduate only about 70 students annually. These
institutes and colleges are the main source of trained agricultural
personnel in the country, serving all government ministries, including MOA,
as well as the entire private sector. MOA recruits its officers from among
the diploma graduates and its technical staff, such as extension workers,
supervisors and research technicians, from among the certificate
graduates.
1.31      Until recently the curricula of both the institutes and colleges
were oriented almost exclusively towards large-scale commercial production.
That situation is now changing with a greater focus in all the institutions
on smallholder and Communal Area agriculture.
1.32      Higher level university education, leading to a degree is
provided by the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zimbabwe. A total of
17 students graduated in 1982, but 30 students are expected to graduate in
1983 and further expansion is planned. The number of graduates at all the
agricultural institutions (University, colleges and institutes) over the
last several years is summarized in Table T1.
1.33      To meet the present and rapidly growing demand in government and
the private sector for highly trained agricultural personnel, MOA has plans
to increase the capacity of the agricultural colleges and institutes.
These plans include: the expansion of Chibero from a total enrollment of 80
to 120 students; the expansion of Esigodini with DANIDA assistance from 60
to 200 students; the expansion of Rio Tinto from 60 to 120 students; and
the conversion of the Kushinga-Pikelela Training Center into an
agricultural institute of 150 students. Gwebi and Mlezu are expected to
operate at their present full capacities of 80 and 300 students
respectively. The Government should be able to financially support this
agricultural education program, in view of the additional Government
revenue that is expected to be generated for the agricultural sector from
the USAID Agricultural Sector Support Program. Under this program, US$30
million would be made available to import agricultural machinery for the
commercial agricultural sector. The commercial farmers would deposit the
equivalent local currency in a special account in the Central Bank, which
the Government, in agreement with USAID, would be free to use in the
agricultural sector. In addition, plans are underway to reduce the
training period in the institutes from three to two years by introducing a



more intensive and less theoretical program. This change alone would
increase institute output by 50%. MOA will soon submit an application to
the Public Service Commission requesting that starting salaries for the
graduates of the new program not be lowered. The resulting college and
institute outputs from all of the above planned changes are summarized in
Table T-2.
1.34.     Budgetary Allocations to the Agricultural Sector.  For 1982/83,
the Government budgeted Z$141.9 million, or about 8.0% of its total budget
(excluding defense and donor aid) to the agricultural sector. The
agricultural sector received the second largest allocation after education,
which received 23%. Of the total amount budgeted for agriculture,
veterinary services, extension, research, tsetse control and agricultural
education received 11.6%, 10.4%, 6.0%, 4.0% and 0.6% respectively.
Consumer food subsidies to marketing parastatals (para. 1.27) accounted for
the lion's share (53.4%), while the remaining portion (14.0%) was allocated
to the central administration of MOA.
1.35      As a proportion of the total budget, the amount allocated to
agriculture is not small compared to other sectors, but as its composition
reveals, only a very small proportion actually goes to support productive
services, such as extension and research; most of it is absorbed by
consumer food subsidies. As the Government begins to implement its fiscal
austerity program, following the December 1982 substantial (20%)
devaluation of the Zimbabwean dollar (para. 1.04), it will need to reduce
certain government expenditures. The obvious candidates for cutbacks would
be such non-productive government programs as the consumer food subsidies
which are also indefensible from a distributional point of view. At the
same time, essential government services, especially those which increase
the productive capacity of the economy, such as extension and research,
will need to be expanded. In fact, expansion in these areas will not be
possible unless even larger reductions are achieved elsewhere in the
budget. Some difficult choices will need to be made. This issue can be
expected to receive major attention in the Bank's and IFAD's continuing
sector dialogue with the Government.
1.36      Sector Issues and Government Policy.  It is in the agricultural
sector where socio-economic dualism is most pronounced. The Government has
assigned highest priority to reducing the large gap between the Commercial
and Communal Areas by transforming the latter into a more modern and
productive part of the economy. While the objective is clear, the
Government's strategy and policies in this area are still evolving. Some
of the main issues which need to be addressed in this context include: the
large number of organizations, committees, and ministries with overlapping
responsibilities for rural development; the presently untapped potential of
the private sector, particularly in the areas of marketing and input supply
and the role of cooperatives; the fiscal drain and regressive
distributional effects from the large subsidization of food; the total
resources that should be allocated to resettlement relative to the Communal
Areas, where the vast majority of the population is located; the absence of
an effective extension service in the Communal Areas; the lack of
technological packages for the drier areas; and the chronic shortage of
well trained and experienced agricultural personnel in both Government and
the private sector. The Government is aware of these issues for which some
solutions will need to be found, if the Government's development objectives
are to be achieved.



- 9 -
II. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL TECHNICAL SERVICES AND EXTENSION (AGRITEX)
A. Background
2.01      The Department of Agricultural Technical Services and Extension
(AGRITEX), within MOA, is responsible for the provision of all agricultural
extension services in the country. AGRITEX was created in July 1981
through the amalgamation of two separate organizations: the former
Department of Conservation and Extension (CONEX) within NOA, and the former
Department of Agricultural Development (DEVAG) within the former Ministry
of Lands, Natural Resources and Rural Development. Under the previous
structure, CONEX was responsible for providing technical and extension
services to commercial and African Purchase Land farmers, while DEVAG
provided those services in the former Tribal Trust Lands. When AGRITEX was
created, it inherited the strengths and weaknesses of both organizations.
2.02      Presently, AGRITEX is embarked on a policy of expanding the
extension services provided to smallholder Communal Area farmers. The
emphasis is to be placed on reaching as many as possible of these farmers
through the formation of farmer groups. Even AGRITEX's predecessor in the
Communal Areas, DEVAG, tended to focus its efforts on the more accomplished
master farmers rather than on the typical subsistence farmers. To devote
the maximum possible resources to this effort, AGRITEX plans to provide
only an advisory (mostly on-call) extension service in the Commercial Areas
where farmers are already very knowledgeable and self-reliant. To succeed
in implementing this new policy will require some major changes within
AGRITEX, both in resource allocation and general orientation to problems.
2.03      These efforts are essential if AGRITEX is to become an effective
agent for development in the Communal Areas. Many technical messages
regarding moisture conservation, plant population, seed varieties, pest
control, inter-cropping, etc., are already available (Annex 1), but for
lack of an effective extension service, the reasons for which are described
in the present chapter, this information is not regularly being
communicated to the majority of farmers in the Communal Areas. It is
conservatively estimated that with the adoption of these simple, but often
neglected, messages alone, farmers could increase their yields by as much
as 50% in Natural Region III, 30% in Natural Region IV and 10% in Natural
Region V. While clearly there are other constraints to increasing
production in the Communal Areas, some of which are starting to be
addressed (paras. 1.21 and 1.28), there is little doubt that an effective
extension service rould already substantially contribute to increasing
production in the Communal Areas, not to mention what would be required of
the extension service once new technological packages, adapted specifically
for the Communal Areas, become available. The need for an effective
extension service is particularly urgent at the present time because, with
the change in Government, farmers in the Communal Areas now appear to have
much higher expectations and to be eager to improve their livelihood.
Failure to take advantage of this interest on the part of farmers could
have very serious economic as well as political consequences.



B.   rgazat'pna  stuctire
2.04      AGRITEX is headed by a director, a deputy director and two
assistant directors - one for each of PLRIT-EX's two divisions:  Technical
Services and Field Services (Chart 2) There is also an administrative and
financial section which is headed by a        s r executive officer who reports
to the Director of AGRITEX.
2.05      The Technical Services Division is organized into seven
specialized subject matter branches. (i) animal production, (ii) crop
production, (iii) engineering, (iv) irrigation, (v) veld and pastures,
(vi) planning (land use and farm management)) and (vii) training. Each
branch is headed by a chief and an assistant chief officer who manage the
work of the subject matter specialists (SMSs). Some SMSs are assigned to
headquarters (Harare), while others occupy positions in the field, advising
and training field staff. AGRITEX's management is presently considering
the formation of another branch, Soil Conservation, which would absorb the
conservation officers currently assigned to field services (para. 2.06).
2.06        The Field Services Division covers the work of the
extension field staff. While headquarters is responsible for coordinating
all field work, the administration and management of field staff is
decentralized at the provincial and regional levels. In each of the eight
provinces, there is a Provincial Agricultural Extension Officer (PAEO) and
two Assistant Provincial Agricultural Extension Officers (APAEOs). This
team is responsible for programming and supervising all extension work in
the province. The SMSs assigned to the province (para. 2.05) are
responsible to the PAEO. Under the APAEOs, there are the Regional
Extension Officers (REOs), followed, in order of authority, by the
Extension Officers (EOs), the Conservation Officers (COs), the Senior
Extension Supervisors (SESs), the Extension Supervisors (ESs), and lastly,
the Extension Workers (EWs), the final link in the AGRITEX chain. This
rather authority-oriented, multi-tiered management structure is both costly
to administer and not ideally suited to providing extension workers in the
Communal Areas with the kind of technical advisory support that they need.
C. Manggement
2.07      AGRITEX's top management is both techAically and managerially
competent. Most have considerable experience in extension work but only a
few have any long experience in the Communal Areas, since the majority of
AGRITEX's top management is comprised of former CONEX staff. However, the
management is adapting very well, and is vigorously committed to converting
AGRITEX into an organization serving mainly the Communal Areas, with only
an on-call service in the Commercial Areas. Despite the best intentions,
however, top management has been so pre-occupied with day-to-day
administrative tasks, that, in its own judgement, it has not had sufficient
time to deal with matters of overall policy and planning. This is an area
which clearly needs to be strengthened.
D. Present Staffiy and Administration
2.08      Of a total establishment of about 2,000 technical and
professional posts, AGRITEX had some 200 vacancies as of end of 1982. The
establishment and number of vacancies by division are summarized below:



- 11 -
Establishment      Vacancies
Directorate                                   4                 0
Administrative and Financial                   7                3
Technical Services (SMSs)
Animal Production
RQ                                11                 3
Field                              13                7
Crop Production
HQ                                25                 5
Field                              12                2
Engineering
HQ                                19                 9
Field                               0                0
Irrigation
HQ                                  6                2
Field                               8                2
Veld and pasture
HQ                                 3                 1
Field                               3                1
Planning
HQ                                26                 1
Field                             64a/              20b/
Training
HQ                                37                20
Field                             22                10
Sub-Total                              249
HQ                               127                41
Field                             122               42
Field Services
Prov. Agri. Extn. Officers (PAEOs)    8                   0
Asst. Prov. Agri. Extn. Off.(APAEOs) 16                   3
Regional Extension Officers (REOs)   48                   4
Extension Officers (EOs)               138               24
Conservation Officers (COs)             25                0
Senior Extension Supervisors (SESs)  48                   2
Extension Supervisors (ESs)            207               10
Extension Workers (EWs)              1,259               74
Sub-Total                            1,749              117
Total                                1,998               200
a/ including 57 cartographer positions
b/ of which 17 are cartographer positions



- 12 -
2.09      With the exception of the Training and Planning Branches, which
have a large number of vacancies (51% and 23% respectively), the problem
among the technical service branches is less one of vacancies than it is of
the distribution of staff between head office and the field and among the
different branches.  Despite the urgent need to support field staff,
approximately half of the subject matter specialist positions are allocated
to the head office, and certain key branches, such as Crop Production, have
very few positions while other branches, such as Engineering and Planning
which are less important for the Communal Areas, account for a large share
of the established as well as filled positions. Among the field service
positions, the highest vacancy rates are experienced by the EOs (17%),
followed by the EWs (6%).
2.10      A breakdown by province, comparing establishment and number of
vacancies at the field level, is shown in Table T-3. It can be seen from
this table, that there are very few subject matter specialists actually
working in any of the provinces (four on average), with Masonaland West,
Matabeleland North and Matabeleland Central having the least (2,3 and 3
respectively) and Mashonaland East having the most (6). If one excludes
the training and planning officers, which comprise about half of the
specialist staff assigned to the provinces, the situation appears even more
critical. Mashonaland Central and Matabeleland South are without any crop
production specialist and, except for Mashonaland East and Matabeleland
South which have only one specialist each, the other provinces are without
any veld and pasture specialist. Extension officer vacancies are a problem
in Mashonaland West (35%), Matabeleland South (23%), and Mashonaland East
(17%) while extension worker vacancy rates run as high as 18% in
Mashonaland West.
2.11      Since the merger of CONEX and DEVAG in 1981, AGRITEX has
experienced a net loss of 103 technical and professional staff. The
difficulty encountered in recruiting and retaining extension staff is
partly explained by the salary structure which is set by the Public
Services Commission (PSC). While starting salaries for extension workers
are generally comparable to starting salaries in other ministries (e.g.
Education and Lands) which compete for the same staff, the opportunities
for advancement to higher grades are more limited within AGRITEX. An
extension worker, holding a certificate from an agricultural institute
(para 1.30) at most, can hope to be promoted to a supervisor or senior
supervisor's position provided of course there is a vacancy, whereas in
some of the other ministries, a person with similar education and
responsibilities can be promoted several grades before ever reaching a
higher structural position. Extension officers, holding a diploma from one
of the agricultural colleges or a degree from the University (paras. 1.30
and 1.32), have considerably more advancement opportunities within AGRITEX
but salaries are about 50% less than those in the private sector.
E. Technical Services Division
2.12      The Technical Services Division, which is organized into
seven specialized subject matter branches including in-service training
(para 2.05), is responsible for providing the technical back-up support to
extension field staff and, in some instances (mostly in the Commercial



- 13 -
Areas), directly to farmers as well. (Annex 2 presents more details on the
individual branches.) The various branches also prepare technical
publications and, depending on the expertise required,help extension staff
implement on-farm trials under the supervision of research staff. The
coverage of subjects by the various technical branches is generally
adequate, but the number of subject matter specialists working in the field
in those disciplines which are needed in the Communal Areas is extremely
small (para. 2.09). Furthermore, the SMSs, being mostly former CONEX
staff, are accustomed to dealing mainly with the commercial sub-sector, in
which their services were normally actively sought, quite often by the
farmers directly. In the Communal Areas, where such assistance has not
been actively solicited, there is little contact between field staff and
the few subject matter specialists assigned to the provinces, a problem
that is exacerbated by the shortage of transport. However, it is in such
areas, where the need for specialist assistance is greatest, since the
extension workers serving the Communal Area farmers are not nearly as
highly trained as those who used to serve the Commercial Areas, a situation
that underscores the importance of in-service training. Unfortunately, the
Training Branch, having inherited most of the CONEX system and curriculum,
is mostly oriented towards training technically highly qualified extension
staff. While there is a strong emphasis on communication techniques,
instruction in basic technical skills and how to apply these to small,
risk-averse farmers are largely missing from the training programs.
F.  Field Services
2.13      Generally, the extension service in the Commercial and
Small-Scale Commercial Areas is adequate in relation to needs. In
contrast, serious problems exist in connection with the provision of these
services in the Communal Areas.
2.14      Firstly, there is the relatively small number of extension
workers. The ratio of actual extension workers (EWs) to farm families in
the Communal Areas ranges from about 1:600 in Mashonaland West to about
1:990 in Matabeleland North, with an average of about 1:750 (Table T-4).
While one needs to be cautious in deriving conclusions regarding the extent
and effectiveness of service from only this kind of measure, when combined
with what is already known about the limited mobility and accessibility of
extension workers (paras 2.16 and 2.17), it does reveal a very serious
problem.
2.15      Furthermore, the above ratios are probably underestimated,
since they are based on rather conservative estimates of the number of
Communal Area farm families and not on the recent population census,the
final results of which should be available soon (para 1.02). Also, to the
extent that resettlement proceeds (para 1.19) and the Government provides
special extension services in new settlements, fewer extension workers
would be available to work in the Communal Areas. Because the need for
extension services is greatest in the Communal Areas, where most of the
rural population is located, the Government will therefore need to



- 14 -
explicitly and carefully consider the extension implications of embarking
on new programs outside the Communal Areas.
2.16      Compounding the staff shortage problem is the fact that none of
the extension workers are motorized. Some have bicycles but these can
hardly provide the necessary mobility where extension workers are often
expected to travel as much as 20 km per day on very difficult rural roads.
Extension workers, under these conditions, simply do not make these trips
and serve fewer farmers than the simple averages would indicate.
2.17      Further constraining the extension worker's effectiveness is the
extreme scarcity of adequate housing in the field. Many extension workers,
because of the lack of housing in the field, are forced to live in towns,
far from the farmers they are supposed to serve, while many others resort
to improvising their own shelters, many of these being mere hovels, which
may lower the extension worker's self-esteem and status in the farm
community and make it increasingly difficult to retain and attract
competent staff.
2.18      The extension worker in the Communal Areas also has very
little contact with supervisors and both the supervisors and extension
workers rarely meet any subject matter specialists (para 2.09). It is
estimated that the average supervisor meets with an extension worker about
once per month, and mostly in the supervisor's office. There is also a
shortage of individual motorized transport with which officers and subject
matter specialists can make their necessary rounds.
2.19      In terms of extension approaches, the prevalent system
practiced by field staff is one of both individual farmer and farmer group
visits, although there is little scheduling or programming of visits, which
increases the risk that farmers will not be contacted and makes it
exceedingly difficult for farmers to know where extension workers may be
found. While such programming is not new to the extension service, it is
not being practiced in most areas. At present, in Wedza District in
Mashonaland East, AGRITEX is experimenting with the use of farmer groups
and farmer extension representatives (FERs). These FERs are farmers who
assist the EW in organizing farmers into groups for extension activities.
It is still too early to judge the impact of this approach but the initial
experience appears promising.
G. Liaison with Research
2.20      In principle, the link between extension and research in the
field is supposed to be provided by the various subject matter
specialists,who are responsible for passing on to field staff information
coming from research, while simultaneously feeding back to researchers the
experience acquired, and problems encountered, in the field. However, as
mentioned (para 2.18), in the Communal Areas, there is little contact
between field staff and subject matter specialists, effectively cutting
this end of the link. On the other end, contact between subject matter



- 15 -
specialists and the research establishment is also quite limited and left
to individual initiative. Such meetings are not routine and, again,
reflect the need to establish systematic procedures within the extension
service.
2.21      The other, less continuous, but important link between research
and extension occurs in the in-service training program for which the
Training Branch is responsible. For this link to be effective, the
training officers would have to meet regularly with the research staff so
that both the extension training program and the research program could be
kept as current and relevant as possible. Unfortunately, such contact is
not yet taking place with regularity.
H. Recurrent and Capital Bud
2.22      AGRITEX is responsible for prepaflng its annual recurrent budget
request which is reviewed by a committee within MOA, chaired by the
Secretary. It ic then consolidated within a Ministry Budget which is sent
to the Treasury for final presentation to the Parliament. For capital
expenditures (houses, buildings, equipment and vehicles), AGRITEX submits a
request which is then consolidated within the Ministry's public investment
program and submitted to an inter-ministerial committee. If these capital
expenditure requests are approved, they are included in the annual budgets
of the respective procuring or implementing ministries (e.g. houses and
buildings are included in the budget for the Ministry of Construction, and
vehicles are included in the budget for the Ministry of National
Supplies). While the vehicle purchases are included in the budget for the
Ministry of National Supplies, under the Central Mechanical Equipment
Department (CMED), AGRITEX does receive a recurrent budgetary allocation
under its transport vote, in order to hire the vehicles procured and
maintained by CMED and to pay allowances to staff who use their private
vehicles.
2.23      Past and Present Recurrent Budgets. The Government's recurrent
budgetary allocations for extension services over the three-year period
1980/81-1982/83 are summarized below:
1980/81            1981/82             1982/83
-~~-~~----------- Z$ million ----
CONEX                       4.26                 4.47
DEVAG                       7.15                10.72
AGRITEX                      -                    -    '           14.70
Total            11.41 (10.61)a/    15.19 (14.11)a/   14.70
a/ Excluding the operation and management of public sector
irrigation schemes, the responsibility for which was
transferred to MLRRD in 1982/83.



- 16 -
2.24      As can be seen from these figures, in nominal terms, the
resources budgeted for extension increased by about 33% between
1980/81 and 1981/82 and by only about 4% between 1981/82 and 1582I183.
After adjusting for inflation (estimated at an average annual rate of about
15%), the 1982/83 budget registered a real decrease, which occurred mostly
in the transport vote (vehicle hire, running expenses and allowances). The
detailed AGRITEX recurrent budget for 1982/83 is presented in Table T-5.
2.25      One of the explanations given for the real reduction in the
1982/83 budget was that in the previous year, DEVAG was able to spend only
about 51% of what was budgeted. However, this shortfall in spending
appears to have been caused by the prevailing uncertainty at the time as to
whether DEVAG would be amalgamated with CONEX and in what form, which
contributed to the loss of considerable staff and the inability of DEVAG to
attract new recruits.  In any case, AGRITEX believes, with some
justification, that the current budget (in particular the subsistence and
transport vote, which was cut quite dramatically even in nominal terms),
does not adequately support the existing staff.
2.26      Past and Present Capital Budgets. During the three-year period
1980/81-1982/83, there were no budgetary allocations for extension-related
capital expenditures on such items as buildings and housing.
III.  THE DEPARTMENT OF RESEARCH AND SPECIALIST SERVICES (R&SS)
A. Background
3.01      The Department of Research and Specialist Services (R & SS)
within MOA (Chart 1), is responsible for the Government's agricultural
research program.  The Department also provides dairy and meat grading
services and carries out several regulatory functions with respect to:
animal feeds, fertilizers, seeds and pesticides. It also runs the National
Herbarium and the Botanic Garden and offers an information service
providing facilities for the publication of research journals and annual
reports and for the retrieval of scientific information.
3.02      R & SS has contributed substantially to Zimbabwe's agricultural
prosperity. While R & SS covers the whole range of agriculture in Zimbabwe
through five major regional research stations, its major contribution to
productivity has been in the field of plant breeding and soil fertility.
The locations of all research centers, stations and sub-stations are shown
in Map IBRD 16940 R.  To date agricultural research has mainly benefited
the Commercial Area farmers. Only very recently has R & SS begun to
undertake widespread adaptive research aimed specifically at the Communal
Areas and these programs are still in the formative stages. While
considerable technological information already exists which could be



- 17 -
applied in the Communal Areas (particularly in Natural Regions II and III),
given an improved extension service, there is much less that is presently
relevant to Natural Regions IV and V and much of it will need to be adapted
to the kinds of farming systems found in those areas (Annex 1).
B. Organizational Structure
3.03      R & SS is headed by a director, a deputy director and three
assistant directors - one for each of the three divisions: (i) Crop
Research; (ii) Livestock and Pastures; and (iii) Research Services. There
is also an Executive Branch, dealing with administrative and financial
matters and an Agricultural Research Council, which is responsible for
advising the Ministry of Agriculture on the adequacy of research (Chart 3).
This Council is comprised of 12 members including five representatives of
the commercial farmers, one representative of the small-scale commercial
farmers, two representatives of the Faculty of Agriculture (University of
Zimbabwe), one representative from the Agricultural Rural Development
Authority (ARDA) of MLRRD and the Directors of AGRITEX, R & SS and the
Tobacco Research Board. At present, the Communal Area farmers are not
directly represented on this Council. R&SS used to include an Education
Branch involving the two agricultural colleges (Chibero and Gwebe) and the
two Agricultural Institutes (Mlezu and Esigodini) but this responsibility
was recently transferred to the central management of MOA (Deputy Secretary
Professional and Technical Services) (para. 1.30) (Chart 1).
C. Management
3.04      Management in R & SS has been of a high calibre, as past
achievements in commercial farm research have demonstrated. Much of this
success has been due, in large part, to a fairly vocal and well represented
commercial farm subsector that has insisted on the provision of good
agricultural services. Similar pressure could be exerted by the Communal
Area farmers if properly organized. However, there are few in the
management of R & SS with long experience in the kind of farming systems
research needed for the Communal Areas. Furthermore, several higher level
staff (including all the Assistant Directors, the Chief Administrative
Officer and several heads of research stations) expect to be leaving R & SS
for other jobs or retirement in 1983. The need to rebuild and strengthen
the management of R & SS is going to become imperative very soon.
D. Present Staffing and Administration
3.05      Of a total establishment of 355 technical and professional posts,
R & SS had some 86 vacancies as of the end of 1982. The technical and
professional establishment and number of vacancies by division are
summarized below:



- 18 -
Establishment         Vacancies
Directorate                                          5                    2
Executive Branch                                     4                    1
Crop Research Division
Cotton Research Institute                     20                     5
Horticulture & Coffee Institute               12                     3
Crop Breeding Institute                       17                     6
Agronomy Institute                            21                     7
Lowveld Research Stations                      16                    7
Sub-total                              86                   2
Livestock and Pastures Division
Matopos                                       21                     3
Grasslands                                     15                    2
Henderson                                      19                    4
Makoholi                                        6                    1
Dairy Services                                 19                    7
Meat Grading Services                         33                     4
Sub-total                             113                   21
Research Services Division
Chemistry & Soil Institute                    40                     8
Plant Protection Institute                    35                     7
Agricultural Engineering Institute             23                    6
Biometrics Bureau                             10                     4
National Herbarium & Botanic Garden             10                    2
Seed Services                                 14                     1
Information Services                           2                     1
Sub-total                             134                   29
Reserve Pool                                        13                    5
Total                              355                   86
3.06      The division suffering the most from staff shortages is clearly
the Crop Research Division with an average vacancy rate of 33%. Within
this division, the Crop Breeding Institute, which recently lost several of
its most experienced plant breeders, has been able to fill only about 65%
of its positions. The situation for the Lowveld Research Stations, which
serve the low rainfall areas of Natural Region V, is even worse; only about
56% of these positions are filled. For the Livestock and Pastures, and
Research Services Divisions, staffing is much less a problem mainly because
both these divisions are able to recruit a large proportion of their staff
from a fairly wide cross-section of scientific disciplines, while most of
the staff needed for Crop Research must normally have specific agricultural
training.



- 19 -
3.07      Of equal concern is the fact that by early 1983 the entire
present directorate of R & SS (with the exception of the Director who will
remain) will be retiring (para. 3.04). The new management of R & SS,
though expected to have the proper technical qualifications, will need time
to develop experience in research management.
3.08      Because research work requires a high technical standard, R & SS
is normally only interested in recruiting the best in each graduating
class. Therefore, R & SS competes mainly with the private sector for
this limited supply of trained manpower. In order to attract a larger
proportion of the best graduates from the colleges and University, as well
as retain existing competent staff, R & SS would probably have to offer
higher salaries than it currently does.
E. Crop Research Division
3.09      The Crop Research Division is organized into five sections:
(i) the Cotton Research Institute; (ii) the Horticulture and Coffee
Research Institute; (iii) the Crop Breeding Institute; (iv) the Agronomy
Institute; and (v) the Lowveld Research Stations (Chiredzi, Chisumbanje and
Sabi Valley). While the Cotton Research Institute deals with a crop that
is the major cash crop grown in the Communal Areas and crop breeding is, of
course, essential to both Communal and Commercial farmers alike, most of
the work undertaken by the Crop Research Division relates mainly to the
relatively high rainfall areas, where mostly commercial farmers are
located. The research that is carried out, is of a high quality. For its
work in hybrid maize alone, the Crop Breeding Institute is famous
throughout Southern Africa for testing over 3,000 new hybrids annually.
However, the continued loss of experienced staff, especially plant
breeders, is beginning to threaten the continuous production of new
varieties and the maintenance of germplasm.
3.10      Recently, the Agronomy Institute initiated two new programs aimed
specifically at the Communal Areas: Communal Area Research Trials (CART),
involving a range of fertilizer, varietal and husbandry trials; and Farming
Systems Research (FSR). To support the FSR program, the International
Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat (CIMMYT) is assisting in
doing diagnostic farm surveys. At present, the CART and FSR programs are
still quite small, involving some 70 research trial sites for CART, and
only two districts (Chibi and Mangwende) for the diagnostic farm survey
work and FSR program. Nevertheless, at present, these programs are the
only ones in the whole research organization which are designed exclusively
for adaptive research in the Communal Areas. The main constraints to the
expansion of these programs are the availability of officers to design and
supervise this work, and the supply of qualified field technicians.
However, as small as these programs are at present, they still exert
considerable pressure on the limited resources of the Agronomy Institute.
(For more details on the Agronomy Institute and the other units of the Crop
Research Division see Annex 3.)



- 20 -
F. Livestock and Pastures Division
3.11      The Division of Livestock and Pastures carries out its work at
four major research stations (Matopos, Grasslands, Henderson and Makaholi),
and is responsible for dairy inspection and meat grading services
(Annex 3). So far the commercial ranching subsector has benefited most
from this Division's work.
G. Research Services Division
3.12      The Research Services Division comprises four units: (i) the
Chemistry and Soil Research Institute; (ii) the Plant Protection Research
Institute; (iii) the Agricultural Engineering Institute; and (iv) a
Biometrics Bureau. It also runs the National Herbarium, the Botanic
Garden, a legume inoculant factory, and provides seed and information
services. The activities of these units are discussed in Annex 3.
H. Associations With Other Research Organizations
3.13      Associations have recently been established with a number of
international research centers. The International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Center (CIMMYT) has assisted in the diagnostic farm survey
carried out in Chibi District and is now engaged in providing similar
assistance in Mangwende District (para 3.10). To further support this type
of research in Zimbabwe and in the neighboring countries as well, CIMMYT
expects to post a full time farm-systems research economist in Harare.
Other international research organizations that have recently established
linkages with R & SS include the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA), which has already sent maize, rice and cowpea material
to Zimbabwe and the International Development Research Center (IDRC) which
is currently funding some sorghum and millet breeding research. In
addition, IDRC expects to provide some limited finance to support the
expansion of the FSR Program (para 3.10) into one or two more areas, while
the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) is expected to
provide a livestock expert for this program. Also the International Board
for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR) has recently started collecting germ
plasm material in the Communal Areas and the International Laboratory for
Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD) has established links with the
Department of Veterinary Services. It is hoped that the International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) may soon
establish a regional sorghum and millet center at Matopos Research
Station. Meanwhile, ICRISAT has already provided plant materials. The
International Center of Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE) is also
expected to establish links very shortly with R & SS. All of these
associations should be of considerable benefit to R & SS, given the losses
of its own staff and also because of the wide experience of many of these
centers in dealing with the very difficult problems of research for peasant
farm situations in low rainfall areas - a field that R & SS now hopes to
strengthen.



- 21 -
I. Recurrent and Capital Budgets
3.14      The budgetary preparation, review and approval process for
R and SS is exactly the same as that described for Agritex (para 2.22).
3.15      Past and Present Recurrent Budgets. R & SS's recurrent budgetary
allocation during the three-year period 1980/81-1982/83, is summarized
below:
1980/81 a/   1981/82 a/   1982/83
------ Z$ million- --
R & SS                          7.56          7.73         8.16
a/ Excluding agricultural education which was transferred to the
Ministry's general vote in 1982/83.
3.16      From these figures, it can be seen that the budgetary allocations
for research increased in nominal terms at an average annual rate of 3.0%.
However, after adjusting for inflation there was a significant real
reduction. The details of the current 1982/83 budget are given in Table
T-6.
3.17      Past and Present Capital Budgets. R & SS's capital expeditures
consist mainly of civil works and equipment for research stations and
experimental farms. During 1981/82, capital expenditures amounted to about
Z$ 200,000 and about the same amount has been budgeted for the current
period 1982/83. About 60% of the budgeted 1982/83 amount is expected to be
financed from external sources.
[V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Rationale
4.01      Because the Project encompasses the total national programs for
such basic agricultural services as extension and research, its general
objectives are quite broad, involving the performance of the entire
agricultural sector. Specifically, the Project would begin to build, over
the next several years, the agricultural extension and research capacity
needed to substantially increase agricultural production and farm incomes
in the Communal Areas, while enabling the commercial agricultural
sub-sector to at least maintain and, hopefully, improve its performance.
This extension and research capacity would be developed in terms of
institutions and policies as well as investments.
4.02      In light of the problems identified in the foregoing two
chapters, particularly the staff shortages that are expected to continue as
an overriding constraint in both AGRITEX and R & SS over the next several
years (para. 4.06), it is quite clear that the process of building-up the



- 22 -
needed extension and research capacity in the country will take many more
than the four years covering the proposed project period (1983/84 -
1986/87). It will surely require a much longer-term commitment. The
national extension and research programs, which comprise the Project are
aimed at, at least, strengthening the foundation. Thus, the provision of
basic infrastructure, increasing the effectiveness of the limited supply of
trained manpower, in-service training, and institution building are the
cornerstones of the present project.
4.03      A national program approach to the Project was adopted for
several reasons. First, in designing the Project, while the main objective
was to increase both the quality and level of extension and research
services aimed at the Communal Area farmers (the Project's target group,
the characteristics of which are described in paras. 1.14-1.16 and 6.07),
it became quite clear that unless the entire national programs for these
services were considered, it would be virtually impossible to determine
what additional resources could be made available for selected high
priority uses within AGRITEX and R & SS, since all of these activities
compete for the same limited management, labor, material, and financial
resources. Second, by dealing with the total programs for these services,
it would also be possible to promote better linkages between communal and
commercial area-related extension and research work. And lastly, while it
is certainly the objective of the Project to direct these agricultural
services towards the Communal Areas, at the same time, it is clearly not
the intention of the Project to accomplish this result at the expense of
agricultural production in the Commercial Areas - a concern that applies
much more to research than extension. Therefore, to ensure a balanced
approach, and for all of the above reasons, the Project consists of the
total national programs for research and extension.
B. Staff Projections
4.04      Staff projections over the project period have been developed for
each major category of staff within AGRITEX and R & SS, taking into account
expected rates of attrition, promotions and lateral transfers, the number
of graduates from the agricultural institutes, colleges and University, and
the proportions of these graduates which AGRITEX and R & SS could expect to
recruit. The derivations and results are presented in Tables T-7 through
T-12 for AGRITEX and Tables T-13 and T-14 for R & SS.
4.05      These projections indicate that both AGRITEX and R & SS should be
able to reach their present full establishment strengths only by the end of
the project period. The opportunity for establishing a significant number
of new posts in either organization during the next several years would
appear to be nil. Just filling present vacancies and keeping up with
expected rates of attrition, are likely to consume the energies of both
AGRITEX and R & SS for the next several years. Consequently, the Project
design reflects this constraint.
4.06      However, even to achieve full establishment strength by the end
of the project period will require some very definite action on the part of
the Government. Among other things, the projections depend critically on
the Government's committment to MOA's agricultural education program



23 -
(para.1.33). During negotiations it was agreed that beginning with FY84,
the Government would budget the necessary resources to maintain the student
enrollment capacities implied by present plans. It was also agreed that by
the start of the school year, September 1983, the training period at the
institutes would be reduced from three to two years, which itself would
increase student output by 50%, and that starting salaries in the civil
service for the graduates of the new two-year program would not be reduced
from the level offered three-year graduates.
4.07      Another important factor is the competitiveness of salaries and
other benefits (paras. 2.11 and 3.08). During negotiations it was agreed
that the Government would undertake a review of the remuneration packages
in AGRITEX and R & SS, and, after consultation with the Bank and IFAD,
introduce by July 1, 1985, a system for making adjustments in these
packages to enable both organizations to retain and recruit competent
staff.
4.08      One other major implication of the staff projections is that for
the next several years both AGRITEX and R & SS will face the problem of a
relatively large number of inexperienced staff at almost all levels. Both
organizations will need to focus much more than they have in the past on
in-service training for officers and non-officer staff. The Project is
designed to address this problem.
C. Summary Description
4.09      The Project consists of the national programs for extension and
research over the four-year period 1983/84 -1986/87, including the
strengthening of the respective implementing organizations (AGRITEX and
R & SS). During the first few years of the Project, while the adaptive
research program is underway and the results are not yet available, the
focus of the extension effort would be on promoting broader adoption of
various already known and tested improvements in farm and crop management
practices (Annex 1). Farmer groups would be used in order to reach as many
of the Communal Area farmers as possible.
4.10      In addition to maintaining in real terms what was budgeted for
extension and research in 1982/83, the following incremental parts are
included in the Project.
4.11      Extension Program (1983/84 - 1986/87)
(i)  establish a new branch within AGRITEX called Management Services
to provide operational policy advice to the Directorate of
AGRITEX;
(ii)  reorganize the Technical Services Division to provide extension
field staff with the maximum possible support in those technical
fields which are most important in the Communal Areas;



- 24 -
(iii) simplify and streamline the provincial structure of field
services to increase the effectiveness of extension workers;
(iv)  rationalize field services by (a) more systematically programmintg
extension worker visits with farmers, supervisors and
specialists; (b) providing motorized vehicles for all extension
field staff including motorcycles for extension workers; and
(c) providing extension field staff with appropriate housing in
the field;
(v) strengthen the in-service training program for extension staff,
enabling them to better meet the needs of farmers in the Communal
Areas; and
(vi)  set up pilot schemes in order to refine extension techniques and
test new teaching aids, extension support services and equipment.
4.12      Research Program (1983/84 - 1986/87
(i) strengthen the organizational, administrative and accounting
structures and practices within R & SS in order to better
meet present research priorities;
(ii) eliminate the backlog in housing, transport, equipment and
materials needed to restore capacity in plant breeding,
cotton, and agronomy research;
(iii) expand those research activities which directly benefit
farmers in the Communal Areas, particularly in the low
rainfall areas of Natural Regions III, IV and V;
(iv) strengthen the in-service training capability of R & SS by
formalizing an on-the-job training program; and
(v) provide technical assistance in key areas to support
permanent staff while they undergo on-the-job training.
D. Detailed Features
4.13      The following describes the detailed features of the incremental
parts of the Project:
1. Extension Program (1983/84 - 1986/87)
(a) Establish a New Management Services Branch
4.14      A new branch, called Management Services, equivalent in status to
other branches within AGRITEX, would be established to provide operational
policy advice to the Directorate of AGRITEX (Chart 2). This support is
urgently needed (para. 2.07). The new branch would be divided into two
sections: economic analysis and policy. The economic analysis section
would absorb the staff and activities of the socio-economic unit in the



- 25 -
Training Branch (including monitoring and evaluation of pilot schemes) and
the farm (budget) management unit in the Planning Branch. The economic
analysis would serve as input to the policy section which would advise and
assist the management of AGRITEX in identifying extension priorities and in
preparing project and program proposals for submission to the Ministry. To
help the new Branch establish a monitoring and evaluation capability, 18
man-months of technical assistance would be provided. During negotiations
it was agreed that the new Management Services Branch would be established
and operational by January 1, 1984.
(b) Reorganize the Technical Services Division
4.15      To provide extension field staff with the maximum possible
support in those technical fields which are most important in the Communal
Areas, the Technical Services Division within AGRITEX would be
reorganized. The present structure, both in terms of the distribution of
subject matter specialists between head office and field, and the relative
importance of the different technical branches, needs to be re-examined in
the light of present priorities to concentrate extension efforts in the
Communal Areas (para. 2.09). During negotiations, it was agreed that
AGRITEX, with the assistance of the new Management Services Branch (para.
4.14), would carry out this assessment and come up with recommendations
which it would discuss with the Bank/IFAD and then implement by
September 30, 1984.
(c) Simplify and Streamline the Provincial Structure of Extension Field
Services.
4.16      The present provincial structure of extension field services,
which has several layers of supervision, involving a fairly complex and
costly administration (para. 2.06), would be streamlined to ensure that it
serves the basic objective of transmitting as quickly as possible and
without distortion, simple technical messages in both directions between
researchers and extension workers in the Communal Areas. During
negotiations it was agreed that AGRITEX, with the assistance of the new
Management Services Branch (para. 4.14), would come up with recommendations
for the new simplified provincial structure which it would discuss with the
Bank/IFAD and implement by September 30, 1984.
(d) Rationalize Field Services
4,17      Programming. To increase the effectiveness of extension workers,
schedules, indicating with whom, when and how frequently, extension workers
would meet with farmers or farmer groups, supervisors, subject matter
specialists and training personnel, would be drawn up and strictly adhered
to in all the provinces. These schedules would vary depending on the
circumstances in different areas. At present there is very little such
programming (para. 2.19). During negotiations, it was agreed that these
plans would be drawn up, discussed with the Bank and IFAD, and implemented
in all the provinces by September 30, 1984.



- 26 
4.18      Transport.  To increase the mobility of the extension workers and
consequently the area and the number of farmers they can effectively cover
(para 2.16), the entire staff of extension workers and supervisors in the
Communal Areas would be motorized. Some 1,200 motorcycles (125 cc) would
be made available to these staff on a loan basis administered by CMED of
MNS (paras 5.05 - 5.08). In addition, the vehicle requirements of field
officers would also be met.
4.19      Housing.  To enable AGRITEX to attract and retain suitable staff
and to reduce the unproductive time field staff spend going from home to
work (para. 2.17), the backlog in construction and repair of field staff
housing would be eliminated over the four-year project period. A total of
660 new houses would be constructed and 250 houses would be either
reconstructed or repaired. All of these houses would be located in the
Communal Areas, and, of the 660 new houses, about 450 would be for
extension workers at the farmer contact level, about 120 for field
extension supervisors, and about 90 for extension officers,  In the
past,the size and standard of houses varied according to rank. The
Government has modified this policy ond now all field staff are to be
provided with basically the same type of house (design F-13), which is a
masonry structure, comprising three bedrooms, a living room, kitchen and
toilet facilities. The houses would be provided with water supply, either
from shallow wells, low-cost piped sources or roof run-off, and connected
to electricity where power supply is available in the immediate vicinity.
The unit cost of the new houses, including water and electricity supply, is
estimated at Z$9,350.  On average, repaLr works are estimated at Z$5,370
per house.
(e) In-Service Trainin
4.20      To cope with the substantial increase in in-service training
requirements that arise from the rapid turnover of supervisory and
specialist staff (para. 4.08) and from the focus on the Communal Areas
(para. 2.02), AGRITEX's in-service training program would be substantially
strengthened by:
(i) having training programs prepared for each category of
staff;
(ii)  designing new curricula to meet present needs;
(iii) providing a training program for managers and supervisors;
(iv) supplying mobile information units, 4-WD vehicles and
equipment for preparing training material; and
(v) providing selected staff with fellowships and study tours
abroad.



- 27 -
Consultants would be engaged during the first, second and third years of
the Project to assist the Training Branch of AGRITEX in carrying out (i),
(ii), and (iii) of the above.
(f) Pilot Schemes
4.21      Four pilot schemes (in addition to Wedza) would be established on
a district scale in physically and socio-economically representative parts
of the Communal Areas in order to refine extension techniques and test new
teaching aids, support services and equipment. Project proposals for two
of the four pilot schemes have already been prepared: one involving the use
of farmer groups and training and visit (T&V) methods in Gweru Region
(Midlands Province) and the other involving the use of mass media in
Masvingo Province. These first two pilots are expected to start during the
growing season for 1983/84. The remaining two pilot schemes still need to
be prepared and would start during the second year. Each of the four
pilots would be tested over a three-year period to allow AGRITEX to
evaluate the results during several planting seasons before adopting
particular practices or equipment on a larger scale. A base line study
would be carried out in all the pilot areas in order to identify the
pre-pilot situation which would later serve as the basis for comparison
with the results. During negotiations it was agreed that before
implementing the pilot schemes, AGRITEX would provide the Bank and IFAD the
opportunity to comment on the proposal.
4.22      The new Management Services Branch, strengthened by a monitoring
and evaluation specialist provided through technical assistance (para.
4.14), would be responsible for implementing the pilot schemes. In
addition, AGRITEX would contract any needed studies identified during the
implementation of the pilot schemes. Also some senior AGRITEX staff would
be selected to visit other countries where experience with the introduction
of new extension methods has been relatively successful.
2. Research Program (1983/84 - 1986/87)
(a) Organization and Administration
4.23      R & SS would carry out a review of its organizational,
administrative and accounting structures and practices in order to increase
its efficiency in meeting present priorities. Consultants would be
provided to assist R & SS in this task. With the need to further extend
adaptive on-farm research to the Communal Areas, the 'demands placed on the
organization and administration of R & SS are going to be quite different
from what they have been in the past. In particular, the association with,



- 28 -
and dependence on, AGRITEX and the importance of off-station relative to
on-station research creates entirely new organizational and administrative
requirements. The consultancy would also assist R & SS in organizing its
research program and accounts on a project basis, as compared to the
present system which shows expenditures only against institutes and
stations, making it difficult to determine when a particular research
project has begun or ended. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations
that by January 1, 1984, the composition of the Research Council
(para. 3.03) would be altered to ensure that the Communal Area farmers are
directly represented.
(b) Eliminating the Backlog
4.24      Some research activities have been seriously underfunded in
recent years. For example, housing shortages are particularly acute at the
Cotton Research Station at Kadoma where the expansion of industry has
abosrbed mDst of the available housing that was not destroyed by the war.
Plant breeding, agronomy research, and the lowveld research stations have
also suffered. For all these activities, the backlog of equipment,
vehicles, and houses would be eliminated and the related staff vacancies
would be filled as a matter of first priority.
(c) Expanding Communal Area-Related Research
4.25      Only those research activities which directly benefit the
Communal Areas would be expanded. This expansion would be accomplished by
filling existing positions and providing houses, vehicles, and equipment.
With few exceptions, new posts would not be created. The activities
covered under this program would include:
Ci) the Communal Area Research Trials (CART) (para. 3.10);
(ii) the Farming Systems Research (FSR) Program (para. 3.10);
(iii) the establishment of an on-farm research coordination unit;
(iv) the plant breeding and agronomy components of the crop
production units of those research stations serving
mainly the lower rainfall areas in the Communal Lands
(Matopos, Makaholi, Chiredzi and Chisumbanje);
(v) cotton research;
(vi) plant protection; and
(vii) a physical resource inventory.
4.26      Communal Area Research Trials (CART).  The CART program would be
expanded from approximately 70 trial sites at present to about 240 sites by
the end of the project period, 1986/87. In addition to the fertilizer,
varietal, and husbandry trials presently carried out, the tests would be
expanded to include:



- 29 -
(i) soil and moisture management experiments;
(ii)  nutrient interaction experiments on the major soil types of each
natural region to determine minimum effective and optimum
fertilizer rates within the financial resources of the Communal
Area farmer;
(iii) experiments with fodder legumes for veld pasture improvement, and
(iv)  trials arising from the monitoring and evaluation of pest and
disease problems.
4.27      Farming Systems Research (FSR). The number of districts included
in the FSR Program would be expanded from two at present (para 3.10) to
about thirteen by the end of the project period, 1986/87. Diagnostic farm
surveys would be carried out in all of these districts in order to identify
available resources and constraints, which would be used to design the
on-farm experiments. ILCA is expected to supply a livestock specialist and
CIMMYT plans to make available, on a part-time basis, an agricultural
economist (para 3.13). Other needed technical assistance would be provided
under the Project (para 4.34).
4.28      On-Farm Research Coordination Unit.  To coordinate all the
on-farm research programs in the Communal Areas including CART and FSR, and
to liaise with AGRITEX, which plays such a crucial role in implementing
on-farm research trials, a new unit would be established within R & SS. It
was agreed during negotiations that this new unit would be established by
not later than September 30, 1984. The new unit is expected to be headed
by an assistant director who would be specifically responsible for ensuring
that there is close coordination between AGRITEX and R & SS.
4.29      Research Stations.  The crop production programs at Makaholi,
Matopos, and Chiredzi and Chisumbanje would be expanded. The main thrust
of the Communal Area research program for the next several years would be
spearheaded by these frontline research stations, with Makaholi Research
Station serving Natural Regions III and IV, Matopos Research Station, in
Matabeleland, also serving Natural Region IV, and the lowveld research
stations, including Chiredzi and Chisumbanje, serving Natural Region V.
Plant breeding research, including the development of shorter season
varieties of maize and work on fodder legumes and other crops suited to
local conditions, such as groundnuts, pulses, cowpeas, sorghum, millet and
cassava, would be expanded at these stations. These stations would also
serve as the main focal points for the communal area-telated research
programs such as CART (para. 4.26) and FSR (para.4.27).
4.30      Cotton Research.  The cotton research program would be
geographically extended from its present concentration around Kadoma into
all the Communal Areas suitable for cotton production. Almost 50% of the
land presently under cotton in the country is found in the Communal Areas.



The new research trials in these areae       .                   n s_'-hTag of
short-season varieties for the                   lo w rer rates 
rotation patterns, herbicides, arir                o- ficers
would also be provided at Kadoma             -
4.31      Plant Protection. Fl                  3        _       at_    ' r both
the growing and harvested crops    n` pests and
diseases and their impact in the                          ,-a's s  tvaentory, the
priority areas for research t37c d                      cxe  -ut '-Is survey
and implement the program, the tuedac  3                      Sb i'ro- r  0, 17 at-ry
equipment would be provided.
4.32      Physical Resource Inventci.'        .      '      c   .-v.entory for
the Communal Areas would be carried <                      icC d -.nc'ude:   a
semi-detailed soil survey (scale of                            aceo iations; a
consolidation of present land u! Iies        -               deraination of
the available land for croppiLg4  and    -               zn c'  noinarab e areas
and those areas prone to erosion unei       . a.  s     -  t)bX   The
semi-detailed soil survey woul d zo1-_r'_  c'yi:aphy recently
completed with assistance from thn -        .
(d) In-Service Training
4.33      To help train a large :=ge-s-                   .7-   ienoa research
staff, a systematic approach to L-..a      -  -".''-:'ouid be
introduced.  Because a good part s    C r-.  i ' '          occurs hrh-ough
contact with experienced researciiersa                    WoL x, would be placed on
this type of on-the-job trainingO  -.A.e .ranfg  .fftic.e  would play a key
role in implementing this syetalr  lj.f ;& & SS is waable to appoint a
qualified person to the estab1ish.  v,-ca-nt pvst of Tra!.ning OLficer, then
technical assistance would be ?'Lo-,7-d fto tirEs pucpose (para. 4.34). The
Training Officer would be resono'i3e r-or &aper-laing the training programs
for each new researcher coming uiA.o i & Ss The trainirg programs would
indicate with whom and how long   ndiviLduals would be apprenticed to
particular researchers.  Each luoividual t-dinfng program would be worked
out in consultation with the individual, his wanager and the Training
Officer.  The Training Officer would be responsible for ensuring that the
training program is followed and that changes are ittroduced if and when
they are required. To supplement the number of experienced researchers,
who would provide this on-the-job training, technical assistance would be
provided (para. 4.34). Study tours and training fellowships abroad would
also be included.
(e) Technical Assistance
4.34      Some 420 man-months of tecnical asi istaLnce vould be provided in
certain key areas (e.g., research managemeti, plant-breeding, plant
protection, farming systems research, cotton agronomy and pathology, etc.)
to support permanent staff while they undergo on-the-job training0 R & SS
still needs to firm-up its specific technical asslstance requirements.
Those that are mentioned, are only likely canldidates at this stage. R & SS
would include its firmed-up specific requireisunts in the Annual Work Plans,
which would be drawn up and discussed with IFAD and the Bank (para. 5.11)0



- 31 -
E. PrE2jectCost
4.35              The total cost of the foregoing extension and research programs
(i.e., the Project) including all capital and recurrent expenditures, and
physical and price contingencies, is estimated at Z$ 161.3 million
(US$ 177.2 million), of which Z$ 42.1 million (US$ 46.2 million) or 26% is
foreign exchange. The incremental costs account for 25% of the total costs
or Z$ 40.9 million (US$44.9 million). A total of 43 man-years of technical
assistance and consultancy services are included at an average cost of
about Z$ 7,400 (US$ 8,100) per man-month. The details and phasing of the
costs over the project period, 1983/84-1986/87, are presented in Tables
T-15 through Table T-25. A summary is presented below:
Table 4.1: Proet  t  S
M19E784 - 1986F8-7)
loml Foeign Total   Local Foreign Total  F.E. X of Total
g Million     -        US$ Milion  -    X  Base Cost
A. Nkr-lncrenpntal a/
Extension Program
Directorate & Adnstratimn         1.4    0.2    1.6        1.5    0.2    1.7    12    1.2
Field Services                   41,9   10.5   52.4    46.0   11.5   57.5    20   39.9
Tecinical Services                5.8    1.5    7.3        6.4    1.7    8.1    20    5.6
In-Service Trainirg               3.7    0.9    4.6        4.1    1.0    5.1    20    3.5
Pilot Sdesia                      0.1    -        0.1     0.1     -       0.1    20    0.1
sub-ttal                     52.9   13.1   66.0    58.1              72.5    20   50.3
Reseach Program
Directorate 6 Administration      1.4    0.3    1.7        1.5    0.3    1.8    20    1.2
LUvestocl & Pasture R2arch        9.8    2.5   12.3    10.8    2.8   13.6    20    9.4
Crop Research                     8.9    2.2   11.1        9.8    2.4   12.2    20    8.5
Research Services                 7.3    1.8    9.1        8.0    2.0   10.0    20    6.9
Sub-total                    27       68    34.2      X.1    73    37.6    20   26.0
Noornereamital Base Costs        80.3   19.9  100.2    88.2   21.9  110.1    20   76.3
Price Contigencies             18.9    4.7   23.6    20.8    5.1   25.9    20   18.0
Total Nir-Incremeotal                99.2   24.6  123.8   109.0   27.0  136.0    20   91.3
B. Incremental b/
Feterwion Program C/
Manam 1nt Services Brandi         0.3    0.2    0.5        0.3    0.2    0.5    40    0.4
Rationaitzation of Field Serv.
Tra-port                        0.5    1.0    1.5        0.6    1.1    1.7    70    1.2
Ib,sirg                         4.6    3.0    7.6        5.0    3.3    8.3    40    5.8
Recurrent Costs                 4.2    1.0    5.2        4.6    1.1    5.7    20    4.0
IrService Trainirg                0.9    1.2    2.1        1.0    1.3    2.3    56    1.5
Pilot Schemes                     0.7    0.4    1.1        0.8    0.4    1.2    33    0.8
Sub-total                    11.2            18.0    12.3    7.4    977             13.7
Research Progr
Org. S Adoin. (CoDs. Serv.)       -       0.1   - 0.1     -       0.1    0.1   100    0.1
Eliminatilg Backlog               2.3    1.3    3.6        2.5    1.4    3.9    37    2.7
epsrsio                           3.8    1.7    5.5        4.2    1.9    6.1    31    4.2
Irvice Training                   0.2    -        0.2      0.2    -       0.2      0    0.1
Tech. Assistance & Cons.          -       3.0    3.0       -      3.3    3.3   100    2.3
Fellowships & Study Tours         -       0.6    0.6       -      0.7    0.7   100    0.5
Sub-total                     6.3    KY J    13.0 M    i9    TX    IM 3       2      9
Incremental Base Costs             17.5   13.5   31.0    19.2   14.8   34.0              23.7
Ptsical Contingencies              1.1    0.9    2.0        1.2    1.0    2.2    45    1.5
Price Contirgencies                 4.9    3.0    7.9        5.5    3.3    8.7    39    6.0
Total Incremental Costs              23.5   IXr        i       ;5    T9.9   44.9           31.1
Total (A + B)                          122.7   42.0  164.7   134.8   46.1  180.9
less Taxes ai ldties                     3.5    -        3.5      3.8    -       3.8            2.6
119.2   42.0  161.2   131.0   46.1  177.1
Plns Fralt Erd Fee                       -       0.1    0.1      -       0.1    0.1
Total FInrwxdg Required                119.2   42.1  161.3   131.0   46.2  177.2
a/ Iarkncrematal ccots are equal to what the Goverment allocated to
these activities in the 1982/83 hLdget saintainel in real tenrs oer four years.
b/ Refers to costs over and above tle rnn-incre7ental COSts.
c/ Tedznical assistance, corsultancies, fellovhips ad satudy tours ha,e been
alloceted to tde friou ftmxionel acteories.



- 32 -
4.36      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of December 1982
prices. Physical contingencies have been included at 15% for civil works,
and 10% for vehicles and equipment. Local cost price contingencies for all
items have been inluded at 12% in 1983/84 and 9% in 1984/85 and subsequent
years. Foreign cost price contingencies for all items have been included
at 7.5% in 1983/84, 7% in 1984/85 and 6% in subsequent years. The high
physical contingency for civil works has been chosen because the sites for
all staff houses and the sources of water and electricity supply still need
to be determined.
F. Financing Plan
4.37      The proposed financing plan would be as followe:
Table 4.2 - !parmdi Pl-ain
IF_ D      B_nk      wZ a/      Total
Ussi -   US$         US$        Us$
miiinon %  milion %  million %  million Z
A. Norrl-ncraental
1. 'Extension Program
Recurent Costs                          89.0  51  89.0  50
2. Research Program
Reoirreit Costs    -    -    -          47.1  26  47,1  27
Total Notr-Incremental Costs              136.1  71  136.1  77
S. Incremntal
1. E&tension Prn
Cpital Ccsts       7.9  4    5.7   3    -    -   13.6   8
Reurrent Costs     3.8   2    2.7   2    4.2   2   10.7   6
Sub-total      - 11.7   6    87    5    4,2   2   2.  -IT
2. Research Program
CapitalCosts       5,8   3    4.2   2    -    -   10.0   5
Recurrent Costs    0.5   -    0.4   -    5.8  3    6.7   4
Sub-total.        6.3  3    4.6   2    5.8   3   1b-7   9
Total Increental Costs  18.0  10  13.0   7   10.0   6   41.0  23
Total Costs (A + B)    18.0  10  13.0   7   146.1  83  177.1 100
Frit End Fee          -    -    0.1   -    -    -    0.1   -
Total Finandrg         18.0  10  13.1   7   A46.1  83  177.2 100
hcbudes tr and duties tbeam  Gerenieo dtpartmes do nW y tse.
4.38      The Government, over the four-year project period would, in
addition to maintaining in real terms what it budgeted for these activities
in 1982/83 (Z$ 23.8 million or US$26.2 million before deducting savings
frou vacancies), contribute a gradually increasing proportion of the
incremental recurrent expenditures, rising from 20% in the first year of
the Project to 80% in the fourth year and to 100% thereafter (Table 4.3).



- 33 -
On this basis, the Government's total incremental and non-incremental
contributions would be Z$ 9.2 million (US$ 10.1 million) and Z$ 123.9
million (US$ 136.2 million) respectively for a total of Z$ 133.1 million
(US$ 146.3 million) or Z$ 33.3 million (U1$-36;6 million) on average per
annum over four years.
4.39              IFAD and the Bank would cover all the new capital expenditures
and the remaining incremental recurrent expenditures over the four-year
project period. Thus, IFAD would provide US$ 18.0 million and the Bank
US$ 13.1 million.
4.40              The time-phased financing plan is shown below:
table 4.3 - Phasing of Finandng PIa
(US$8 Mill-ion)
1983/84   1984/85    1985/86   1986187   Total
A. Nor1Incrufntal
1. Extension Program
Reaxrrent Exper1tuires
(Vote A a/       14.7       16.1       17.5      18.5      66.8
(Vote B F/             3.5        3.9       4.2        4.4      16.0
(Otbers (         1.4        1.5       1.6        1.7       6.2
Sutrtotal             19.6       21.5      23.3       24.6      89.0
2. *Rsearch Progr&n
Recurrent Experditures
O)Z (Vote A            7.8        8.4        9.2       9.7      35.1
(Othezr           2.7       2.9        3.1        3.3      12.0
sub-total             10.        11.3      12.3       13.0      47.1
Total Nor-Inceental           30.1       32.8      35.6       37.6    136.1
B. Inareental
1. Eteansion Program
Capital Expenditures
IFAD                   1.5       2.5        1.7        2.2       7.9
Bark                   1.1        1.8        1.3       1.5       5.7
Recurent Expenditures
(Vote A           0.1       0.2        0.3        0.4       1.0
(XZ (Vote B            0.1       0.2        0.7        2.3       3.3
(Others           -         -          -          -         -
IFAD  (Vote B           0.4        1.0       1.3        0.9       3.6
(Dthers           -         0.1        0.1        -         0.2
Bark  (Vote B           0.4       0.7        0.8        0.5       2.4
(Others           -         0.1        0.1        0.1       0.3
2. Researdc Frgram
Capital xpendaritres
GDZ                    -          -          _
IFMA                   1.7       2.4        1.3        0.4       5.8
Bark                   1.3        1.7       0.9        0.3       4.2
ReoArent  acpeaiitures
GCCZ  (Vote A          0.5        1.3        1.4       1.5       4.7
(Vote B i Others  -         0.3        0.4        0.4       1.1
IFAD (Vote B & Others  0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.4
Bank (Vote B & OthLrs  0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.4
Total Costs (A + B)           37.4      45.3       46.1       48.3    177.1
Bank: Front Erd Fee        0.1       -          -          -         0.1
Total Flnncirg                37.5      45.3.     46.1        48.3   =177.
af Vote A envers salaries, wegs ard al1a-ness for the total establisluaut
before der1cting any savirm, fron vacancies.
,  Vote B oers subistene and trarsprt.
eJ Others refers to all otler recurant aeiiertWe8.
4.41              The Government would annually allocate the proceeds of the IFAD
and Bank loans to the budgets of the various implementing agencies:
AGRITEX, and R & SS in MOA; MOC for civil works; and CMED within MNS for
vehicles and equipment. The budgetary allocations would be as follows:



- 34 -
Table 4.4: idgetary Allocation for IFAD and Bark RInds
IFAD  Bark  'Ibtal
Agrite
Tedrmical Assistance & C(nultancies  0.3  0.2  0.5
Fellowhips & Study Tours  0,3  0.1  0.4
Increwntal Rearrent Costs  2.6  2.1  4.7
Sub-total            3.2  2.4  5.6
R& SS
Teceiical Assistance & Coraultancies  2.2  1.7  3.9
Felloships & Study Tours  0.4  0.4  0.8
Irrantal Recurrent Ccsts  1.7  1.0  2.7
Sub-ltotal           4.3  3.1  7.4
M.O.C.
Civil Works:
Extersion               5.4  4.3  9.7
Researdc                2.7  2.1  4.8
Sub-total            8.1  6.4  14.5
Vedhcles & EquTpsnt
mtension                1.8  0.7  2.5
Research                0.6  0.4  1.0
Sub-total            2.4  1.1   3.5
Total                     18.0  13.0  31.0
G.  Government Cash Flow
4.42      Table T-26 shows the Government's project-related cash flow over
a period of 20 years. Receipts would consist of the proceeds of the IFAD
and Bank loans and some fiscal revenues from indirect taxes and duties on
construction materials, vehicles and equipment. Taxes are not levied on
inputs or primary commodities. It is unlikely that the Project would
generate other significant public revenues since the income of the primary
beneficiaries (Communal Area farmers) falls far below the taxable level.
The net cash flow to the Government would be negative throughout the
forecast period. The deficit is estimated to rise from Z$30.7 million
(US$33.7 million) in the first year to Z$40.6 million (US$44.6 million) in
the fifth year and then to stabilize during the remainder of the forecast
period. These net Government outlays would compare with a present budgeted
amount for extension and research of Z$23.8 million (US$26.2 million).
This analysis clearly shows that benefits from the Project fall mainly
outside the public sector while the costs are borne largely by the
Government.
H. Procurement
4.43      Civil Works.  The staff houses and buildings to be constructed
under the Project would be too widely scattered in the communal areas and
would individually involve too small a sum to attract foreign bidders. All
civil works and associated installations, estimated to cost Z$ 16 million
(US$18 million), would be carried out by private local contractors or by
MOC through force account especially in the remote areas where local
contractors may not be interested or available. All works to be carried
out by private contractors would be awarded through local competitive
bidding (LCB) in accordance with GOZ procurement procedures which have been
reviewed and found acceptable to IFAD and the Bank.



4.44      Vehicles, equipment and spare parts, estimated to cost Z$3.9
million (US$423 million), would ha bulked as far as practical, and orders
of US$100,000 and above would be procijred through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bauk guidelives, from suppliers who
maintain, or agree to estab.esh eQMd ma!Otain, adequate after-sale services
and spare parts in qrtrategically locate!i places.   Vehicles, equipment and
spare parts which, 3ecause of genuinply special circumstances and urgency,
cannot be bulked in orders of US$100,000 or more would be procured through
LCB in accordance with GOZ prtc..v:ement prncsduwea which have also been
reviewed and found acceptable to IYAD Pn.  the Bank; representatives of
foreign firms would be eligible to bid. Procarement under LCB would not
exceed US$250,000 in aggregate. In evalvhat.ig bids for vehicles and
equipment to be procured through 10%B, e preference not exceeding 15% of the
c.i.f. prices of imported goods or t.h.e cvatom duties, whichever is less,
would be extended to local  a.factures,
4.45      Technical Assistance and Consultanci Services. The individuals
or firms to provide technLcal  esistpnce and consultancy services,
estimated to cost Z$4O0 mJliio..  (TjF$44   ilion), would be selected and,
engaged in accordance with pro n         and. under terms and conditions,
acceptable to IFAD and th',e S!az-''  In add'ltion, it was agreed during
negotiations that before co                   dw-,'echnical assistance, the
necessary permanent staff -, oculd t Se' np-l.lted to the established positions.
4.46      The proposed allo1c   e           nSFAD and Bank loans against the
disbursement categories is TsY    ...G.a      - e "27c  Table T-28 shows the
schedule of expected di-buree-    f.--   LFAD and Bank loans.
Disbursements for UFND a-1 -. I.-t;--        d Qe on the following basis:
(a)   Civil works: 8D.%         _    .       e
(b)   Vehicles, equip-mexa    9g sp)          100% of foreign
expenditurs;  Ours  (ex-factory
costs) and 65%             f 3.        for other items
procured lecal I7y
(c)   Consultant                           e a  2- L  iassistance: 100% of
local expe1ditzes  .- z           oz consultants
domiciled witnhiT ',00>  of foreign
expenditures facz-             *'Jther con'sultants;
(d)   Fellowships and study 'w       D aS road: 100% of total
expenditures; and
(e)   Incremental                   st o a; a perrentage declining
gradually from 80%  n -'SPrOeCt's first year, 60% in
the second year,  % >n f a.      rd ye-r, and 20% in the
fourth yer, s'hja'c' 'Lci .-IveSfall average of 45% of
the total icre maae'r_            a ptnditures over the
project peried.



- 36
4.47      Disbursement for civil works carried out by private contractors,
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and consultancy services would be made
after presentation of full documentation. Disbursement for civil works
under force account and incremental operating costs would be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), which would be retained by AGRITEX and
R & SS in a central location and made available upon request for review by
IFAD/Bank supervision missions.
J. Accounts and Audit
4.48      AGRITEX, R & SS, MOC, and CMED, would each maintain a separate
account of the funds and expenditures for which they are directly
responsible under the Project. The accounting systems applied by these
agencies is sound and the agencies have the capacity to maintain
satisfactory and timely accounts. These accounts would be audited annually
by the Auditor General which has the capacity to carry out this work in a
satisfactory and timely manner. The Auditor would be requested to make
specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs and the supporting documents
(para. 4.47). The audited accounts, together with the Auditor's report
would be submitted to the Bank and IFAD within nine months following the
end of the fiscal year. Agreements to these arrangements were obtained at
negotiations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      As the Project has no separate identity apart from the national
programs which it encompasses, its organization and management are those of
the various departments and branches concerned (AGRITEX and R & SS).
Therefore, the creation of an ad hoc, project-specific institution to
manage the Project is not required. However, considerable support to
strengthen the management capacities of the concerned organizations is
included in the Project.
5.02      For example, in AGRITEX, the new branch, Management Services,
would be created (para. 4.14), specifically for the purpose of giving
management greater capability to plan and make policy decisions, including
the reorganization of the Technical Services Division (para. 4.15) and the
streamlining of the provincial structure of extension field services
(para. 4.16). In R & SS, the organizational and administrative structures
would be changed to enable management, among other things, to exercise the
control it needs (para. 4.23), and, during the present transitional period,
while the turnover in staff is quite high, technical assistance would be
provided to support permanent staff while they undergo on-the-job training
(para. 4.34)0 Also, within R & SS, a new unit would be established
(para. 4.28) to liaise with AGRITEX and coordinate the various different
research disciplines (principally crops and livestock) involved in on-farm
adaptive research.



- 37 -
B. Civil Works
5.03      HOC, through its Maintenance Division, would be responsible for
the construction and-maintenance of the staff houses and other buildings
financed under the Project. MOC is well established and has the necessary
technical competence and capability to ensure that the works would be
carried out in accordance with sound engineering standards. It has already
completed designing the type of houses needed for Agritex and R & SS
staff. The envisaged works would be carried out either by MOC or by
private contractors selected by MOC. Where works are to be carried out by
private contractors, MOC would be responsible for inviting, evaluating and
awarding bids through the Central Tender Board. In addition to supervising
the contractors, it would be responsible for furnishing the contractors
with the necessary engineering and architectural designs, and determining,
through the Housing Advisory Committee (consisting of representatives of
MOC, MEPD, and the Public Service Commission), the construction standards,
quality control, and specifications. However, AGRITEX and R & SS would be
primarily responsible for determining the number of houses to be
constructed each year. It was agreed during negotiations that, by not
later than November 1, 1983, AGRITEX and R & SS would submit to MOC,
through MOA, a four-year building and repair work program which would be
reviewed annually by AGRITEX, R & SS and MOC in time to ensure that the
agreed annual program would be included in MOC's budget for the immediately
following fiscal year.
5.04      AGRITEX and R & SS would also be responsible for identifying and
acquiring the sites for the staff houses and other buildings. They would
select the sites in consultation with the respective District Councils with
a view to ensuring that, as far as possible, the houses are situated in the
places where public land and infrastructure such as water, electricity,
roads, and telecommunication are readily available. However, the
overriding consideration would be to site the staff houses in strategic
places to reduce travelling time to the staff 's area of operation. During
negotiations, it was agreed that, by not later than November 1, 1983,
AGRITEX and R & ss would identify and acquire sites for all buildings
scheduled to be constructed during the first year of the Project; and that,
by not later than May 1, 1984, identify and acquire sites for buildings to
be constructed during the second, third and fourth years of the Project.
C. Transport
5.05      CMED is responsible for procuring and maintaining all Government-
owned vehicles. The capital costs are charged to CMED's vote while the
running and maintenance costs are charged to the respective user
ministries. In addition, for some years, CMED has been providing vehicle
loans to civil servants. To date, only motor-cars have been financed and
only officers have been eligible. To qualify for a loan the officer must
agree to use the vehicle on official duties pertinent to his post, for
which he receives a mileage allowance from the Government department for
which he is working, e.g., AGRITEX and R & SS. The maximum amount of the
loan is currently fixed at Z$3,000 per vehicle, and is repayable over 3
years at an annual interest rate which was recently increased from 6% to
9.6% to more accurately reflect the cost of Government borrowing. No cash



- 38 -
down-payment is required. One of the main advantages of this scheme is
that private ownership tends to foster better care of the vehicles and
releases CMED from the maintenance and repair responsibilities; on the
other hand, staff tend to avoid using their own vehicles when travelling to
areas where road conditions are very poor. The scheme is presently
handicapped by a shortage of funds to meet the demand; based on the
existing supply of funds, no new loan applications can be approved before
September 1984.
5.06      The vehicles to be procured for the extension and research
programs would involve both loan and hire arrangements with CMED.
Virtually all the motorcycles would be provided on a loan basis. For the
vehicles, financed under the Project and for which loans would be given,
CMED's normal terms would apply and loans would be given for 100% of the
cost of motorcycles and for 90% of the cost of other vehicles. Agreement
on these terms was reached at negotiations.
5.07      AGRITEX and R & SS would be responsible for preparing tender
documents, and for inviting and evaluating bids for vehicles to be made
available to the staff on a loan basis. In the case of Government
vehicles, AGRITEX and R & SS would advise CMED of their requirements in
time to ensure inclusion of these costs in the budget estimates for the
concerned year. AGRITEX and R & SS would require their staff to prepare
loan applications which, after endorsement by AGRITEX and R & SS, would
constitute the basis for inviting tenders.
5.08      The staff owning vehicles would be free to take their vehicles to
repair shops of their choice. At present, repair facilities and spare
parts for motor-cycles are not readily available in most of the rural
areas. AGRITEX and R & SS would aim at procuring the same make of
motor-cycles so as to increase the demand for standardized services and
spare parts in rural areas, thus encouraging private dealers to establish
servicing facilities and to stock spare parts.
D. Research Trials
5.09      To implement the off-station research trials, R & SS would rely
heavily on AGRITEX staff. The new unit to be established within R & SS
(para. 4.28) would be directly responsible for coordinating this work.
E.  Implementation Schedule
5.10      The implementation schedule for the various components of the
Project is given in Chart 4.
F. Supervision
5.11      Because of the comprehensive program nature of the Project,
considerable flexibility had to be built into its design to allow for
needed adjustments over the four-year period. During negotiations, it was
agreed that AGRITEX would prepare Annual Work Plans indicating the
next year's plan in detail; that such plans would be submitted to the Bank
and IFAD; and that Annual Project Review Meetings would be held to discuss



- 39 -
these plans and to review the long-term program. In the case of AGRITEX,
the annual plan would also include the specification of the main technical
messages that would be delivered by the extension service. To assist the
Government, these annual review meetings would also be attended by
representatives of some of the international research organizations which
already, or will soon, have associations with R & SS (para. 3.13). As a
group they would serve as a technical advisory committee.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
6.01      Quantifying the benefits from any extension or research project
is a difficult task. The complicating factors most often cited include: a
long gestation period before full realization of the benefits; a very long
project life over which predictive accuracy diminishes; the inherently
uncertain nature of research; and the fact that research and extension are
essential but not sufficient by themselves to ensure sustained agricultural
growth, thereby also requiring the quantification of the other necessary
factors such as prices, the availability and costs of inputs, credit and
transport, etc. Add to this list the fact that the present project
encompasses the total national programs for these services, spread over a
country, comprising several regions having widely varying resource
constraints and potential, and the difficulty, indeed, impossibility, of
deriving a reliable rate of return for the Project becomes readily
apparent.
6.02      Nevertheless, it is essential to have some economic criterion for
deterimining the limit to such public expenditures. Consequently, the
analysis addresses the following question: what pattern of agricultural
development would be required to minimally justify the level of incremental
expenditures under the Project? After obtaining the answer to this
question, the likelihood that this development would actually occur as a
result of the Project, is assessed.
B. Justification
6.03      The incremental economic costs over the life of the Project
(taken at 20 years for the purposes of this analysis) are estimated at
Z$ 78 million.1! To produce an economic internal rate of return of at
least 12%, the present value of these costs must equal the present value of
the benefits (the net value of induced agricultural output), when all costs
and benefits are discounted at 12%X Since the present value of the
economic costs discounted at 12% equals Z$ 34 million, the present value of
the benefits must also equal this amount to yield a minimum economic
internal rate of return of 12%. While there are an infinite number of
agricultural development scenarios which would satisfy this condition, one
need only consider a few to be able to express a judgement as to whether
this result is likely to be achieved.
1/ Unskilled labor (construction, general hands and farmer
representatives) has been shadow priced at one-third of the market wage
rate.



- 40 -
6.04      Several such scenarios are presented below:
Year in                                      Im2act c/
Average      which                Adoption rate b/         (Average
Scenarios  Farm      a/  Adoption         (No. of average farmers)   yield
Production   begins                                        increase)
(Z$)                                                      (%)
1         165           3       18,000 farmers/yr in each year       30
2         165           3       14,000 farmers/yr in Years 3-7       30
27,000 farmers/yr in Years 8-12
31,000 farmers/yr thereafter
3         165           5       29,000 farmers/yr in each year       30
4         165           3       14,000 farmers/yr in each year       40
5         165           3       10,000 farmers/yr in Years 3-7       40
20,000 farmers/yr in Years 8-12
24,000 farmers/yr thereafter
6         165           5       22,500 farmers/yr in each year       40
a/ Average value of production per Communal Area farm (excluding master
farmers) in 1982 for the three major crops (maize, groundnuts and
cotton). Variations in productivity among farmers could also be
considered but this would only complicate the analysis without changing
the result.
b/ There are at present an estimated 680,000 communal area farmers
excluding the more advanced farmers.
c/ Overall increase of the three major crops.
6.05      In all of the above scenarios, the average yield increases are
quite modest (30% and 40%). Even with just the present technology using
improved farm and crop husbandry practices, not to mention the impact from
the new technological packages that the Project would hopefully develop,
these average yield increases should be easily attainable (Annex 1).
Master farmers in the same areas are already doing better. Similarly, the
adoption rates (per cent of total communal area farmers adopting the
extension message), required to justify the Project with the above yields,
are very low, ranging from 2.0% to 24% in scenario four and from 4.0% to
44% in scenario three, over the assumed 20 year life of the Project. Even
assuming no increases in extension staff, to achieve the adoption rates in
scenario four, each EW would have to reach only 12 new average farmers each
year. The required coverage increases to only 26 farmers per EW in
scenario three. Further encouraging is the fact that the Zimbabwean
farmers have already shown an eagerness to adopt new technologies as
demonstrated by the fairly widespread use of hybrid maize. This analysis
demonstrates the high probability that the Project is economically
justified and that it is likely to have a much higher payoff than the
minimum required to justify it.



- 41 -
C. Risks
6.06      There is little doubt that if the Project,as it is now foreseen,
is implemented, the payoffs would be substantial in terms of induced
agricultural growth in the Communal Areas. Where there is some risk,
however, is in relation to the question of whether various conditions will
enable the Project to be implemented according to the present design.
Specifically, if there are substantial shortfalls in budgetary allocations,
staff recruitment, or the training of staff, the Project (or what would be
left of it) would most likely not have a significant impact. To reduce
these risks, several measures have already been, and would be taken.
Regarding budgetary allocations, the Project's funding implications have
been carefully identified and clear commitments were discussed and agreed
during negotiations. Also, the continued review of this matter would be in
the forefront of the Bank's sector and macro-economic dialogue with the
Government (para. 1.35). To help ensure that AGRITEX and R & SS are able
to recruit the staff they need to implement their programs, agreements were
reached during negotiations regarding the Government's commitment to MOA's
agricultural education program (para. 4.06) and to the introduction of more
competitive salary and benefit packages in both AGRITEX and R & SS (para.
4.07). And lastly, consultancy services as well as technical assistance
would be provided to give AGRITEX and R & SS the capability they need to
train the relatively large number of inexperienced staff.
D. Beneficiaries
6.07      The principal beneficiaries of the Project would be the farm
households in the Communal Areas. The number of communal area farm
households is estimated at about 840,000, comprising a population of about
4.0 million people or about 53% of the total population of Zimbabwe. At
least 50% of these households are headed by women. The per capita gross
farm income in the Communal Areas was estimated at Z$ 44 (US$58) in 1980.
Although gross production in the Communal Areas rose from an annual average
of about Z$76 million during 1970-75 to about Z$ 105 million during
1975-80, this was entirely due to price changes. Between the two periods,
primarily because of a persistent decline in the production of groundnuts,
sorghum and millet, gross Communal Area production is estimated to have
fallen by about 10% in real terms (on the other hand, commercial area
production increased by about 14% in real terms). The contribution of the
Communal Areas to total agricultural production fell from an average of 24%
during 1970-74 to about 20% during 1975-80. Thus, the economic position of
the Communal Area farmers has been deteriorating relative to that of the
commercial farmers. The Project seeks to redress thiT imbalance by
increasing production in the Communal Areas.
E. Environmental Impact
6.08      One of the major environmental problems facing the Communal Areas
is soil erosion, particularly in the overgrazed areas of Natural Regions
III, IV and V. This problem has now reached serious proportions. Many



- 42 
conservation works were destroyed during the war and have not yet been
repaired. Failure on the part of many Communal Area farmers to plow and
plant on the contour has also contributed to the problem. AGRITEX has
plans to establish a Soil Conservation Branch (para. 2.05). This would be
a move in the right direction. Also, the extension service, which would be
supported through the Project, is expected to promote various moisture
conservation practices, which would have the effect of conserving soil by
limiting the amount of runoff. In addition, the research program, also
supported through the Project, would investigate the opportunities for
introducing forage legumes to reduce the amount of overgrazing and improve
the pastures. This change alone could substantially cut down on the amount
of soil erosion in the Communal Areas.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01   During negotiations it was agreed that the Government would:
(a) budget the necessary resources to maintain the following
approximate student enrollment capacities at the country's
agricultural colleges and institutes: Mlezu - 300 students
by 1983/84; Esigodini - 200 students by 1985/86; Rio Tinto - 120
students by 1984/85; Kushinga Pikelela - 150 students by
1984/85; Gwebi - 80 students by 1983/84; and Chebero - 120
students by 1983/84 (para. 4r06);
(b) beginning with the school year starting September 1983,
reduce the training period at the agricultural institutes from
three to two years and not lower starting salaries in the civil
service for the graduates of this shorter program (para. 4.06);
(c) undertake a review of the remuneration packages in
AGRITEX and R & SS, and, after consultation with the Bank and
IFAD, introduce by July 1, 1985, a system for making adjustments
in these packages to enable both organizations to retain and
recruit competent staff (para. 4.07);
(d) establish and make operational by January 1, 1984 a new
Management Services Branch within AGRITEX (para. 4.13);
(e) have AGRITEX carry out its own assessment of the organization of
the Technical Services Division, and propose recommendations to
reorganize the structure to make it better serve the needs of
farmers in the Communal Areas, which AGRITEX would discuss with
the Bank and IFAD and then implement by September 30,1984
(para. 4.15);
(f) have AGRITEX propose recommendations for a new simplified
provincial extension structure which it would discuss with the
Bank and IFAD and implement by September 30, 1984 (para. 4.16);
(g) have AGRITEX prepare schedules indicating with whom, when and
how frequently extension workers would meet with farmers or
farmer groups, supervisors, subject matter specialists, and



- 43 -
training personnel, which it would discuss with the Bank and
IFAD and implement in all the provinces by September 30, 1984
(4.17);
(h) have AGRITEX provide the Bank and IFAD the opportunity to
comment on the pilot scheme proposals (para. 4.21);
(i) alter the composition of the Agricultural Research Council by
January 1, 1984 to ensure that the Communal Area farmers are
directly represented (para. 4.23);
(j) have R & SS establish by September 30, 1984 a unit within
its organization, to coordinate the on-farm research program
for the Communal Areas (para. 4.28);
(k) appoint the necessary permanent staff to the established
positions before contracting any technical assistance (para.
4.45);
(1) have AGRITEX, R & SS, MOC, and CMED maintain separate accounts
relating to expenditures under the Project, and have such
accounts audited by the Auditor General and submitted to the
Bank and IFAD within nine months following the end of the fiscal
year (para. 4.48);
(m) have AGRITEX and R & SS, by not later than September 1, 1983,
submit to MOC, through MOA, a four-year building and repair
program, which would be reviewed annually by AGRITEX, R & SS and
MOC in time to ensure that the agreed annual program would be
included in MOC's budget for the immediately following fiscal
year (para. 5.03);
(n) have AGRITEX and R & SS, by not later than November 1, 1983,
identify and acquire sites for all buildings scheduled to be
constructed during the first year of the Project; and,
by not later than May 1, 1984, identify and acquire sites for
buildings to be be constructed during the second, third and
fourth years of the Project (para. 5.04);
(o) have CMED administer the loans for vehicles financed under the
Project under normal CMED terms with such loans covering 100% of
the cost of motorcycles and 90% of the cost of other vehicles
(para. 5.06); and                           *
(p) have AGRITEX and R & SS prepare annual work plans indicating the
next year's plan in detail; submit such plans to the Bank and
IFAD; and hold Annual Project Review Meetings to discuss these
plans and to review the longer term program (para. 5.11).
7.02   With the above agreements, the Project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IFAD loan of US$18 million and a Bank loan of US$13.1 million
to the Government.



ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture - Organizational Structure
MINISTER
zizzirizzi
DEPUTY MINISTER
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  SECRETARY
PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL SERVICES                 ECONOMICS & MARKETING                   ADMINISTRATIVE & FINANCE
BRANCH                                      BRANCH                                    BRANCH
I   DEP. SEC. ECON                                 .
DEP. SEC PROF. & T S.                           & MARKETING                           DEP. SEC ADMIN & FIN
DEPARTMENTS                AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
BRANCH
CHIEF
AGRICULTURAL       EXCSC          ECONOMICS        U/ CNFNNCE &
DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR         EDUCATIONEXEC SEC                     INT                                       ADMINISTRATION
OFFICER
RESEARCH& &     EEIA                                              HE  GI
AGRITEX       SPECIALIST     VEN                                                C     AGRMC
SERVICES       SERVICES                                          ECONOMIST
OWEBI      CHER         MLZ        ESGDN 
World Bank-24414



ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Department of Agricultural Technical Services and Extension
Organizational Structure
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR]
r   FIELDSERVICES    I              I  ADMINISTRATION                          TECHNICAL SERVICES
A?SSsrANT DIRECTOR                          AND FINANCE     I                    ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
ASHIND   MASHONAAND MASHONALAND                                                                                         MANAGEMENT I
MASHONALAND I     EI MASHONALANO I WIEMASHONALANDT I I MANICALAND I                            | PRODUCTION    EINGINEERING        IRRIGATION         SERVICES
Keys
Proposed
Existing
PAEO  Provincial Agricultural Extension Officer
Note Structure below provincial level not shown                                                                                     World Bank-24413



ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
D8partm8nt of Research and Speciesist ServiceS
Organizalonal Structumr
DIVISION OF             I      PROPOSED ON FARM
E.EAR~~~~~..ERW~~~~~E.  P RESEARCH                    EXECUTIVE        N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCI AND PASURES                                                                 I       COMMUNAL AREA
VELO AND PASTURE                         RESEARCH UNIT
X             1                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L - - - - - I - - - - - - - - 
CHEMISTRVYAN D SOI L    PLANY PROTECTION          B EIOMETRICS          INSTITCTEOEF        COTTON RE5EARCH        HIORTICULTURE AND |         LOWVE LDS          CROPSaREEODING            AGRONOMY                MATOPOS           i 9ASLAN OS                HENDERSON
REEARCHINSTITUTE    RESEARCH INSTITUTE              B EUREAU           AG IESLOSRAL             INSTITUTE             IFE  RESTIUEARC    RESEARCA STATIONS          INSTITUTE               I NSTITUTE         R ESEARCH STAT ION    |RESEARCH STATION       RESEARCH STATION
COnisVSy lebtIn        EntEoncY Se~tIoH                             Sect,on,               'et RenhS Tncm         tnH.OnIto,EI Roethfl   ionceder Ra-h          Meze Bn -d-g           Wed Reme R h -  T-m    Lo oWk 8me d,- T  s-kd  Uo E Sdttkon          A-l Nu-Mttn -nd
C,opNunAon Sect,.      PAtI-TRy SeCtin                              dppmPo,,tecnocY          -np d n               Cents,                 Staon                  Te.m                  Crx E-nolean, PT-           ,t,n     - Sent,,  Vld Intment            Phgn Setion
Pdtddo  Set     P         etEdgy Sentn CPteet tm, Rnvreh                                   Agnnnnnn Tnnm          REnds Im    E..,n                              Itr CEtOel1           C,n FPnA,-tln- T.-,    Veld MWn.ent  Sp t,nn                         PeHte Snt,,,
Sell FldPtdotno  R>ueeec    Pestede R.nrmnn,t                       Coop Me,Sen,,en,n                             nmn snation            Stenon                8Rad,,g TBen            nho Un,e at GrAnndlns    SectIon             Lengum Inneulant       PUlt,Y UtAt
L= oT1Y -.VIH,,te,V S                                              Catin end Dlon.nt                             CoI,o. Rebo-hm         Stb, V.,Hl" E.nne nt    O,lV Bneedln           Mnop.p nd Mkool,                                Fo
F._, ed Fm  Fe                                                                                                     Stetio                 S-eot.                T-m                    Pent,, ERore,,n. '
R-enenw GnSb, V.B                                                                                                                                                             SenHD n
Taet,n Cent.
TECHNICAL 
SERV         NDEVELOENT
Wntld .-k-2,dtS



- 47 -                    Chart IV
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Unit    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Total
Extension Program
Civil Works
Staff Houses
New                         No.    -50  -- -150 ---200 - 260                 660
Repairs                     No.    --100 -- - 154 -                          254
Offices                       No.    - 0.5  - --0.5                              1.0
Vehicles & Equipment
4-W Drive                     No.    -- 19    --- 3 --                          22
Motorcycles                   No.    --627 -  --627                          1,254
Pickups                       No.    --- 3 -  --  2--                            5
Mobile Units                  No.    --- 3 -                                     3
Equipment                    L.S. a/                                           L.S.
Technical Asst. & Consult.   m/m        --21 --   27 ---  18-                     66.
Fellowships & Study Tours   lm/m    j--46 -  -66 - -50 ---  36-    198
Rlesearch Program
Civil Works
Staff Houses b/                      --117    --128    -- 50 -                 295
Offices                               --0.5 ---1.5                               2.0
Other Works                  L.S. a/ --------  --                              L.S.
Vehicles.& Equipment
4-W Drive c/                          --14                                      14
Lorries                                -  1                                       1
Pickups                              -- 22                                       22
Motorcycles                           -- 38                                     38
Tractors                              --- 5                                      5
Equipment                    L.S. a/ - - ----- --------                        L.S.
Techaical Asst. & Consult.   m/m        -- 61 -  --166    --160    -- 57         444
Fellowships & Study Tours    m/m        -- 84 -  --120  -- --120    -- 60        384
a/ Lump Sum.
b/ Both new and repair.
cl Includes one saloon car.
February 10, 1983



ZI. EVT
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Education (Past and Present Studenjt Output)
(1979-1982)
Univesity  webi  gric.    Chibero Agric    ?Vlezu Tech.       Esigodini      Gloag 2t       Kukiwaniizi at         in
of          College            College            InSLitute           Tech.        Agric.          Agric.           Tech.
Zimbabwe                                                              Institute    Institute       Institute        Institute
Minimum Entrance        'A'          5 'O'Levels          5 '0'               Grade 9          Grade 9       Grade 9         Grade 9
Qualifications       Levels        +1 yr. farming         Levels            Form  II           Form II
Approximate
Capacity                                85                  80               300                60          100              145
Nu=ber of
Faculty !'embers:                         cl                  c/                 d/               dt
lecturers                              97                  87                 97               57
Tastructors                           9                    8                 9                 5
Length of
Course                3                  2                   2                  3                3            3                 3
Final
QualificationB'Sc'              Diploma             Diploma            Certificate       Certificate  Certificate    Certificate   Certificate    4
StudentsI
Output:
1979               12
19S0               21
1.981              18                40                    40                30                1.3
19S2               20                40                    40                30                17                                           20
~JGloae and Kukwanizi Instituttes were independent institutes. These have since been closed as agricultural institutes.
b"  Rio Tinto Technical Institute belongs to the Rio Tinto Mining Company and also conducts other technical trainings.
c/  Lecturers for colleges have a B.Sc. degree in Agriculture, Instructors are diploma graduates.
d,' Lecturers are diploma graduates and instructors are certificate graduates-.-
H



ZIMBABWE                                        Table T-2
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION (PROJECTED OUTPUT)
INSTITUTES                             COLLEGES a/         UNIVERSITY
Mlezu  Esigodini  Rio Tinto   Kushinga-Pikelela    Gwibe   Chebero         Univ. of Zimbabwe
(Faculty of Agric.)
1982/82    21        15        5                  -               36        36               17
1983/84 b/ 54        18       23                 18               36        36               20
1984/85   135        27       54                 67               36        54               30
1985/86   135        90       54                 67               36        54               30
1986/87   135        90       54                 67               36        54               30
a/ assumes a drop out rate of 10%
b/ assumes institute training program is reduced from three to two years beginning in 1983/84.
Source: Mission estimates.



ZIMRAABWE                                                                            Table T-3
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ANID RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRITEX: STAFPF ESTABLISHMENT AND VACANClES BY PROVINCE
Mashonaland Central  lashonaland East  Hashonaland West  Manicaland  Hasvingo   Midlands   Matabeleland South  Matabeleland North
Technical Services                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL POSITIONS
1. Professional Staff                          Est.    Vsc.         Eat.   Vac.          Est.   Vac.   Est.  Vac.  Est. Vac.  Eat. Vac.          Est.   Vac.           gat.   Vac.          Et    Vac.
Anisal Production                                I       -             I     I            I       I       I     i     I    -      I    I           I      I             I       -             S      5
Crop Production                                  1       1             2     -            I      -       3      -     I    -      2    -          1       -             1       1            12      2
Engineering                                      -       -             -                                 -                                                                      -                    -
Irrigation                                       I       I             I     -                           I 1  1  -    I    -      1    -          I       -             1       -             B      2
Planning                                         2       1             2     -            2       1      2      2     2    1      2    1          1       1             1       1            15      8
Veld and Pasture                                 -       -             I                  -      -       -     -      -    -      I    1          -       -             -       -             3      1
Training                                         2       1             2     2            2       2      2      1     2    1      2    1          2       1             2       1            16    10
2. Technical Staff                               7       3             7     3            S      3       9      3    11    2    10    1           5       2             5       2            61    19
Sub-Total                                 14      7            16     6            15      8      1S     7   18    4       9 1   5         12      5             11                 T123    TY
Field Services
1. Professional and Technical Staff                                                                                                                                                                         o
PABO 6 APAEO                                     3       1             3     -            3       -      3      -     3    -      3    -          3       1             3       -            24      2
hEO                                              5       1             5     1            7      -       6      1     6    2      7    1          4       1             3       -            43      7
EO                                              12       -            18     3           20       7     24      3    20    3    23    3          13       3             8       -           138    22
OD                                               5      -              5     -            4      -       3     -      2    -      2    -          I       -             3       -            25     0
SES                                              5       -             7     -            7       1      8      1     7    -      7    -          4       -             3       -            48      2
ES                                              20       1            27     -           23      -      37      4    31    -    33    1          23       -            13       -           207      6
EW                                             103       8           132     5          129     23    223    11   227    6   229    6           127       -            89      15          1259    74
2. Support Staff                                37       5           47      4           44      3      62     4    56    3    28    2           1a       2            35       1           327    24
Sub-Total                                190     16                   13         237      i2 366    24  3   4            f3     Ti         93      7            157     16          2073   m
Total Field Staff                           204     23           260    19           252     42    384    31   372   18   361   18           351      12           168      21          2196   184
a/ These support staff also serve the extension specialists



ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRITEX: Extension Staff Densities by Province
a/
Province                   Number of Communal Farmers           Number of Extension Workers         Ratio of EWs to Farmers
Mashonaland Central                48,200                             103   (97)-/                    468        (497)b/
Mashonaland East                   90,900                             132   (103)                     688        (882)
Mashonaland West                   58,400                             129   ( 96)                     453        (608)
Manicaland                        153,200                             223   (218)                     687        (702)
Masvingo                          159,200                             227   (193)                      701        (825)
Midlands                          140,000                             229   (209)                     611        (670)       I
Un
Matabeleland South                130,600                             127   (120)                     815        (863)
Matabeleland North                 88,100                              89   (89)                      990        (990)
Total                     841,600                           1,259   (1129)                     668        (745)
Source: a/ AGRITEX, estimates for cropping season 1981/82
b/ After adjusting for those EWs who work outside the communal areas.
0m
0-



- 52 -
ZIMBABWE                            Table T-5
National Agricultural Extension and Research Project
AGRITEX: 1982/83 Budget
Z$
A. Salaries, wages and allowances                                   12,159,000
Less: Estimated saving on establishment                             600,000
11,559,000
B. Subsistence and Transport
Fares                                                                60,000
Official travel in private vehicles                               1,000,000
Rural Transport Allowance                                            18,000
Subsistence                                                         422,000
Vehicle Hire                                                        500,000
2,000,000
C. Incidental Expenses                                                 360,000
D. Training, field trials and irrigation
Animal Production Extension                                          60,000
Crop Production Extension                                           100,000
Engineering Training and Extension                                   20,000
Irrigation Extension                                                  6,000
Pasture and Extension                                                10,000
Radios                                                                4,000
Staff Training Scheme: Vegetable Production                         107,000
Training Extension                                                  293,000
600,000
E. Land Use Planning
Mosaics and topographical supplies                                   25,000
F. Farm Running Expenses
Domboshawa Training Farm                                             18,000
G. Buildings, furniture and equipment                                  130,000
TOTAL                                            14,692,000
Source: Government of Zimbabwe



- 53 -
ZIMBABWE                          Table T-6
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
R AND SS: 1982/83 BUDGET
Z$
A. Salaries, wages and allowances                                   6,370,000
Less: Estimated saving on establishment                            400,000
5,970,000
B. Subsistence and Transport
Fares                                                                2,000
Official travel in private vehicles                                  5,000
Subsistence                                                          1,000
Vehicle hire                                                         6,000
14,000
C. Incidental Expenses                                                135,000
D. Agricultural Service running expenses
Dairy services                                                      54,000
Legume innoculent factory                                           11,500
Meat grading services                                               61,000
National herbarium and botanic garden                               40,000
Seed services                                                       34.500
201,000
E. Grants
Agricultural Research Council of Zimbabwe
Administration                                                      60,000
Research                                                         1,763,000
1,823,000
F. Station Development
Various research stations                                            5,000
G. Machinery, equipment, furniture and livestock                        6,000
TOTAL                             8,154,000
Source: Government of Zimbabwe



- 54 -
ZIMBABWE                               Table T-7
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Projections: Extension Workers
1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Established Extension       1259         1259         1259         1259         1292
Worker (EW) positions
Positions occupied at       1185         1074         1049         1155         1292
beginning of year
Vacancies at beginning        74          185          210          104          -
of year
Attrition during year a/    83             75           52           58           64
Promotions to Extension       28           17           12           12           12
Supervisor
Recruitment during year b/   -             67          170          207          207
Positions occupied C/       1074         1049         1155         1292         1423
at end of year
a/  Between 1982/83 and 1983/84 the attrition rate is estimated at 7% declining to
5% thereafter.
b/ Agritex is expected to be able to recruit 60% of the students graduating from
the agricultural institutes (Table T-2).
c/ Agritex could create 33 new positions in 1985/86 and 131 new positions in
1985/86.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 55 -
ZIMBABWE                          Table T-8
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Projections: Extension Supervisors
1982/83     1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Established Extension        207          207         207          207          207
Supervisor (ES)
positions
Positions occupied at        197          207          207         207          207
beginning of year
Vacancies in December         10           -           -            -            -
1982
Attrition during year a/    13             14           10           10          10
Promotion to Senior            5            3            2           2            2
Extension Supervisor
Recruitment from EW           28           17          12           12           12
positions b/
Positions occupied           207          207         207          207          207
at end of year
a/ Between 1982/83 and 1983/84 the attrition rate is estimated at 7% declining to
5% thereafter.
b/ It is assumed that AGRITEX would fill only vacant positions. No new posts are
envisaged in the ES category during the project period.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 56 -
ZIMBABWE                            Table T-9
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Projections: Senior Extension Supervisors
1982/83      1983/84       1984/85      1985/86       1986/87
Established Senior             48            48            48           48            48
Extension Supervisor
(EES) positions
Positions occupied at          46            48            48           48            48
beginning of year
Vacancies at beginning          2            -             -            -             -
of year
Attrition during year a/         3            3             2             2            2
Vacancies filled by              5            3             2             2            2
Extension Supervisors b/
Positions occupied  c/         48            48            48           48            48
at the end of year
a/  Between 1982/83 and 1983/84 the attrition rate is estimated at 7%, declining to
5% thereafter.
b/ Assumes that Extension Supervisors would be promoted to fill all vacant SES
positions.
c/ It is assumed that Agritex would not create new positions in the SES category
during the project period.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 57 -
ZIMBABWE                          Table T-10
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Projections: Extension Officers
1982/83     1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Established Agricultural   138            138          138         138          138
Extension Officer (AEO)
positions
Positions occupied at        116           89          106         138          138
beginning of year
Vacancies at beginning        22           49           32          -            -
of year
Attrition during year a/    11              8           10           13          13
Promotion to fill vacant
posts:  REQ                   12            7            7           7            7
E/SE Spec.           14           21           16           12           10
Recruitment b/                10           53          69           69           69
Positions occupied            89          106         138          175          177
at end of year
a/ An attrition rate of 10% has been applied throughout the project period.
b/ It is assumed that AGRITEX would recruit 60% of the graduates from the
agricultural colleges (Table T-2). Agritex would also recruit some EOs from the
University and from the market generally.
c/ Agritex could create 4 new positions in 1984/85; 37 new positions in 1985/86 and
39 new positions in 1986/87.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 58 -
Table T-11
ZIMBABWE
National Agricultural Extension and Research Project
Staff Projections: Regional Extension Officers
1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Established Regional Extension
Officer (REOs) positions              48           48           48           48           48
Positions Occupied at
beginning of year                    44            48          48            48           48
Vacancies                                4                  -                   -    
Attrition during year a/                 5            5            5            5            5
Promotion to other posts
(PAEO and APAEO)                      3             2            2            2            2
Recruitment to fill vacant posts
due to attrition and Promotion b/  12               7            7            7            7
Positions occupied at end of year    48              48           48           48           48
a/   An attrition rate of 10X has been applied throughout project period.
b/   Vacant positions would be filled by extension officers.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 59 -
Table T-12
ZIMBABWE
National Agricultural Extension and Research Project
Staff Projections:- Extension Specialists
1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Established Extension/
Senior Extension Specialists
(E/SE Spec.) positions               143          143          143          143           143
Positions occupied at
beginning of year                     81           94          114           140          143
Vacancies at beginning of year          62            49           24            3            -
Attrition during year a/                  8           10           11           14           14
Recruitment during year: b/             21            30           23           17           14
Within Agritex                        14           21            16           12           10
Outside                                7             9            7            5            4
Positions occupied at end of
year c/                               94          114          140           143          143
a!   Attrition rate is estimated at 10% throughout the project period.
/   In 1982/83 it is expected that Agritex would fill 30% of the vacant
specialist positions, increasing to 50% in 1983/84, 60% in 1984/85 and
100% in 1985/86. To fill vacancies, 70% would be recruited from within
Agritex and 30% from the University and other sources.
c/   Agritex would not create new positions during the project period.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 60 -
Table T-13
ZIMBABWE
National Agricultural Extension and Research Project
Staff Projections: Research Officers
1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Established Research Officer (RO)
positions a/                        107           107         107          107           107
Positions occupied at
beginning of the year                 80           78          83           88           106
Vacancies                               37           29           24           19           11
Attrition during year b/                11           11           12            8           10
Promotion or Lateral
Transfers c/                           8            7            8            4            5
Recruitment during year: d/             17           23           25           30           16
Positions occupied at end of year    78              83           88          106          107
a/   Number of RO positions requiring agricultural qualifications.
b/   Estimated at 15% through 1985 and 10% thereafter.
c/   Through 1985, 10% of the ROs would be promoted or transferred and 15%
thereafter.
d/   From the University, the agricultural colleges and from those returning
from graduate training abroad.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 61 -
Table T-14
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Projections: Research Technicians
1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86       1986/87
Established Research Technicians
(RT) positions a/                     83            83           83           83            83
Positions occupied at
beginning of year                     65            63           71           83            83
Vacancies at the beginning of year   18               20            12            0            0
Attrition during year b/                  6            6             6            8            8
Promotion and Lateral
Transfers c/                            6            6            6            4             4
Recruitment during year: d/              10           20           24            12           12
Positions occupied during year           60           65           75            83           83
aT   Number of established RT positions requiring agricultural
qualifications.
'b/   Attrition rate is estimated at 10% for the entire project period.
c/   It is assumed that 10% of the staff would be promoted or laterally
transferred through 1985 and 5% thereafter.
d/   The staff would be recruited from the college.
Source: Mission estimates.
December 1982



- 62 -                                       Table T-15
WNICQAL AGRICULTIRAL ESMIICN AND R llABC  PTD=
Cost Estilste: Cbcteason Pror- Capital Costs
(Z$ '))
1983/84        1984/85        1985/86        1986/87        Total
Units Unit Ccst         Amrxtnt         Awnwt          Ahrnit         AmxLmt         An=I(t
Z$     Units  Z$-OD0 Units  Z$'OO  Units  Z$'OOO Units  Z$'000 Units  Z$'000
Civil Workis
Field Servics
Staff Etuses: NM              9,350    50    467.5  150  1,402.5  200  1,870.0  260   2,431.0  660  6,171.0
Repairs          5,370   1QO    537.0  154    826.2    -         -       -        -   254  1,363.4
Proindsl Office              32,400      0.5   16.2    0.5   16.2    -         -       -       -      1      32.4
Total Civil Works                          1,020.7        2,244.9        1,870.0         2,431.0        7,566.6
Vehicles
Directorate & Adin. a/
4-W                          12,000     2      24.0    2      24.0    -        -      -        -      4     48.0
Motorcycles                   1,150    12      13.8   12       13.8    -       -      -        -    24      27.6
Sub-total                                                    37.8                                         75.6
Field Servire
4WD                          12,000     8      96.0    -       -       -       -      -        -      8     96.0
Mctorcycles                   1,150   600    690.0  600    690.0    -          -      -        -  1,200   1,380.0
Sub-total                                   786.0           69.0                                        1,476.0
In-Servies TraisnLig
4WD                          12,000      7     84.0    -       -       -       -      -        -      7     84.0
o1bie Unit                   15,000      3     45.0    -        -      -       -      -        -      3     45,0
Pidhp                         8,900      1      8.9    -       -       -      -       -        -      1      8.9
Sub-total                                     i-                                                          137.9
Pilot Scb
4WD                          12,000      2     24.0     1      12.0    -       -      -        -      3     36.0
Pidcuha                       8,900      2     17.8    2       17.8    -      -       -        -     4      35,6
Motorcycles                   1,150    15       17.3   15      17.3    -       -      -        -    30      34.6
Bicycles                        121   135      16.3  135       16.4    -      -       -        -    270     32.7
Sib-total                                    75.4           63.5                                         133.9
Total Vehicles                                 1,012.1          791.3    -       -      -        -      -   1,803.4
Equip-
Irr-Service Trainiim j/                         111.8          200.0            -                -           311.8
Pilot Sdene
Mass Meda Fquipment 0/                         51.1           44.3             -               -            95.4
VW Radio Ccamndcaticn                           -             100.0            -               -           100.0
Directorate & Adinistration                       -              -
Uad Calculators                  35    30       1.1            _               -                             1,1
Total Equipmet                               164.0          344.3                                         508.3
Tecdmical Assistance
dnitorixg & Eval. Spec. m/m     6,100     -       -       6      36.6   12      73.2    -        -     18    109.8
22suancy Services
In-Service Trainicg    na/m     6,100    21    128.1   21    128.1    6         36.6    -        -    48    292.8
Toal Tecimical Ass. & Cows.                       1Z8.1           164.7          109.8                         402,6
Fellowhip ard Srudy Tcmrs d/
In-ervice TrainiLrg                      40      68.0   54    100.0   50        88.0   34       60.8  180    316,8
Directorate & Ain. a/                      3      4.5    6        9.0    -       -      -        -      9      13.5
Pilot Scdme                                3      4.5    6       9.0    -       -       -        -     9      13.5
Total Fellchip & Study Tours              4        .o   66    - 7  18.    50    18.0   34       60,8  198    343M8
Total Capital Costs                        2,401.8        3,663.2        2,067.8         2,491.8       10,614.7
al E; leeively for thp Marnamt Services Unit to be establlsbed under
the Prodect.
b/ See Table T-17.
ct See Table T-18.
d At Z$1 ,320/mannonth in Africa, and Z$1 ,870-/fanrsath outside Africa;
envisaged prxgram as follows:
outside
Africa    Africa    Total
mQ/m       m/m      Wm
1983/84        20         2         40
1984/85        20         36        56
1985/86        20         30        50
1986/87        12         22        34
Total      72         108      180
April 20, 1983



Table T-16
- 63 -
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Extension Program - Recurrent Costs
(ZM '000
1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87         Total
Non-Incremental
Salaries, Wages & Allowances
Directorate & Administration                306.0       306.0       306.0       306.0
Technical Services                        1,374.3    1,374.3    1,374.3    1,374.3
Management Services                           -           -           -           -
In-Service Training                         704.9       704.9       704.9       704.9
Fi9,748.8vices                            9,748.8    9,748.8    9,748.8    9,748.8
Pilot Schemes                                26.0        26.0        26.0        26.0
Sub-total                              12,160.0   12,160.0   12,160.0   12,160.0    48,640.0
Subsistence & Travel
Directorate & Administration                 80.0        80.0        80.0        80.0
Technical Services                          355.0       355.0       355.0       355.0
Management Services                           -           -           -           -
Field Services                            2,765.0    2,765.0    2,765.0    2,765.0 
Sub-total                               3,200.0    3,200.0    3,200.0    3,200.0    12,800.0
Miscellaneous
Directorate & Administration                 18.3        18.3        18.3        18.3
Technical Services                           81.3        81.3        81.3        81.3
Management Services                           -           -           -           -
In-Service Training                         435.1       435.1       435.1       435.1
Field Services                              595.0       595.0       595.0       595.0
Pilot Scheme                                  2.3         2.3         2.3         2.3
Sub-total                               1,132.0    1,132.0    1,132.0    1,1320            5
Total Non-Incremental                        16,492.0   16,492.0   16,492.0   16,492.0    65,968.0
Incremental
Salaries, Wages & Allowances
Directorate 6 Administration a|              31.4        62.8        62.8        62.8
Technical Services                            -           -           -           -
In-Service Training                           -           -           -           -
Field Services                                -           -           -           -
Pilot Schemes                                40.5       121.5       162.0       162.0
Sub-total                                  71.9       184.3      224.8        24.8        705.8
Subsistence & Travel
Directorate & Administration at               9.8        29.4        39.2        39.2
Technical Services                            -           -           -           -
In-Service Training                         143.2       341.6       312,2       185.3
Field Services                              528.0    1,036.1    1,569.7    2,082.8
Pilot Scheme                                 18.4        53.4        74.0        74.0
Sub-total                                 699,4    1,460.5    1,995.1    2,381.3        6,536.3
Miscellaneous
Directorate 6 Administration                  -           -           -           -
Technical Services                            -           -           -           -
In-Service Training                           5.6        21.2        32,1        31.2
Field Services                                -           -           -           -
Pilot Schemes                                 2.7        13.9        19.9        19.9
Sub-total                                   82         35.1        51.1        5T.1        145.6
Total Incremental                               779.6    1,679.9    2,271.0    2,657.2         7,387.7
Total Recurrent Costs                        17,271.6   18,171.9   18,763.0   19,149.2    73,355.7
a/  Includes costs for Management Services Unit to be
established under the Project.
April 21, 1983



ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Extension Program - In-Service Training_Equipment
1983/84            1984/85            1985/86             1986/87            Total
Unit Cost  Units    Amount   Units    Amount   Units    Amount   Units    Amount   Units    Amount
Z      _           ZS                 Z$      ____  _      _    __            S      ___          S$
Head Office
Phototype Setter                  39,000       1    39,000.0      -          -        -         -        -          -        1     39,000.0
Stitching Machine                  4,600       1     4,600.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1      4,600.0
Broadcast Quality Tape Recorder  3,440         5    17,200.0      -          -       -          -        -          -       5      17,200,0
Microphone for field uses            190      10      1,900.0     -          -        -         -        -          -       10       1,900.0
35mm Single lense reflex camera    700         5     3,500.0                -         -              -              -       5       3,500.0
An 8 Channel mixer                 9,200       1     9,200.0      -          -        -         -        -          -        1      9,200.0
Remote Central play-in
Record and Tape Recorder          5,600       2    11,200.0      -              -         -         -              -        2     11,200.0
Stereo Microphoue                  1,200       1      1,200.0     -          -       -          -        -          -        1      1,200.0
Remote Module                        800       1       800.0      -          -        -         -        -          -        1        800.0
Monitor Speaker                    1,500       1      1,500,0     -                   -                  -                   1      1,500.0
Gramophone                         3,600       2     7,200.0      -          -        -         -        -          -        2      7,200.0
Digital Stop Watches                 120       5       600.0      -          -        -         -        -          -        5        600.0
Cassette Copier                    3,500       1     3,500.0      -          -        -         -        -          -        1      3,500.0
Slide Copier                       9,200       1     9,200.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1      9,200.0
10,000 Slide mount                   800       1       800.0      --                 -          -        -          -        1        800.0
5,000 Tape distribution bags       2,600       1     2,600.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1      2,600.0
2,000 Slide distribution boxes   2,000         1     2,000.0      -                                                          1      2,000.0
Word Processor                    15,000       -    15,000,0      -                                                          -     15,000.-
Electric Typewriters               2,600       3     7,800.0                                                                 3      7,800.0       '
Reducing & Enlarging
Photocopier                       4,400       1     4,400.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1      4,400.0
Plain Paper Copier                 3,200       1     3,200.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1      3,200.0
Book-binding Stapler                 300       1       300.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1        300.0
Mechanical Hole Puncher              400       1       400.0                                                                 1        400.0
Addressograph & Plate              1,700       1      1,700.0     -          -        -         -        -          -        1      1,700.0
Radio Central desk, 8 channel   21,000         1    21,000.0      -          -                                               1     21,000.0
Studio Microphone                  2,100       1     2,100.0      -          -       -          -        -          -        1      2,100.0
Miscellaneous Radio Equipment
and Installation Costs           15,000       -   _5,000.0       -                  -          -        -.                -          - - 
Sub-total                                     186,900.0                                                                      186,900.0
Regional Offices
Electric Duplicator                1,200      24    28,800.0      -          -       -          -        -          -      24      28,800.0
Electric Stencil Scanner           1,400      24    33,600,0                                             -          -       24     33,600.0
Coramate Type Slide Sequence
Projector                         1,300      24    31,200.0      -          -       -          -        -          -      24      31,200.0
Overhead Projector                   458      24    11,000.0      -          -       -          -        -          -       24     11,000.0
Screen                               208      24     5,000.0      -          -       -          -        -          -      24       5,000.0
Cassette Recorder                    400      24     9,600.0      -          -       -          -        -          -      24       9,600.0
35mm Camera                          208      24     5,000.0      -          -       -          -        -          -      24       5,000.0
Flip Chart Stand                      14.6   48        700.0      -                  -          -        -          -      48         700.0
Sub-total                                     124,900.0                                                                      124,900.0     a
Total                                                311,800,0                                                                      311,800.0
January 12, 1983



Table T-18
- 65-
ZIMBABWE
NATICNAL AGMA1I    EXESIC  AMD RESACR PRF)EWCT
Cost Estimates: Ext.ension Program - Pilot Sc1.ses (Equioeznt)
1983/84         1984/85          1985/86          1986/87          Total
Unit Cost Units   Arutm   Units   Ahut  Unrts   awunt  Units   Aourit  Units   Amoxut
Z$      _       Z$       _       Z$       _       Z$       _       Z$               Z$
Extensioni Off ice Equipment
Radio Cassette Playsr           290      4    1,160.0    4    1,160.0    -          -      -         -      8      2,320.0
Cassette Copier 1:1            1,130     2    2,260.0    2    2,260.0    -          -      -         -      4      4,520.0
Carmate                         750      2    1,500.0    2    1,500.0    -          -      -         -      4      3,000.0
Solar Power Source              860      2    1,720.0    2    1,720.0    -          -      -         -      4      3,480.0
Ammlator                         90      8      720.0    8       720.0    -         -      -         -      16     1,440.0
C.90 Cassette                     4    40       160.0   40       160.0    -         -      -         -     80        320.0
Cassette Storage Boxes           20      6      120.0    6       120.0    -         -      -         -     12        240.0
Filirg Cabinet - 4 drawer; steel  100    2      200.0    2       200.0    -         -       -        -      4        400.0
Card Index CAbinet; A5           35      2       70.0    2        70.0    -         -      -         -      4        140.0
Stationery CabLnet '6           110      2      220.0    2       223.0    -         -      -                4        440.0
Blackboard 6' x 3'               25      2       50.0    2        50.0    -         -      -         -      4        100.0
Notice Board                     23      2       40.0    2        40.0    -         -      -         -      4         80.0
Flip-sbeet Stand                  15     2       30.0    2        30.0    -         -      -         -      4         60.0
IxBtamtic Casera ari Flash       75      2      150.0    2       150.0    -         -      -         -      4        300.0
Basic Tools (pliers, etc.)       35      2       70.0    2        70.0    -         -      -         -      4        140.0
Suspe9 ion Files - 50             0.7  100       70.0  100        70.0    -         -      -         -    200        140.0
Suspensions Cradles               2      4        8.0    2         800    -         -      -         -      4         16.0
Sub-total                                 8,548.0          8,548.0                                           17,096.0
1steing Gxi Equi t
Radio Cassette Player            290    20    5,800,0   20    5,800.0    -          -      -         -     40    11,600.0
C.90 Cassettes                    4   120       480.0   20       480.0    -         -      -         -     40        960.0
Lw Voltage Slide Projector      225    20    4,500.0   3D    4,500.0    -           -      -         -     40      9,000.0
Filing Cablnet, 4 drajer; steel   100    20    2,000.0   20    2,000.0    -         -      -         -     40      4,000.0
Accislator                       90    40    3,600.0   40    3,600.0    -           -      -         -     80      7,200.0
Nidel Cadium Batteries           35    20       700.0   20       700.0    -         -      -         -     40      1,400.0
Flip-steel Stand                 15   3O        300.0  23        300.0    -         -      -         -     40        600.0
SlLde Storage BK                 20    20       400.0   20       400.0    -         -      -         -     40        800.0
Solar Pcer Sarses               860    20   17,200.0   20   17,200.0    -           -      -         -     40    34,400.0
Suspemion Crailes                 2    40        80.0   40        8020    -         -      -         -     80      1,600.0
Suspension Files                  0.7  100      700.0  100       700,0    -         -      -         -    200      1 400.0
Sub-total                                35,760.0         35,760.0                                           71,520.0
Wdnza Support Eqpme
Frame Tent 15x5m               2,900     1    2,900.0    -         -       -        -      -         -      1      2,900.0
ScxA Amplifier & Speaker        900      1      900,0    -          11                                               900.0
MiscelLaneais                                  30-,-    -          -       -               -                       3,000,0
9Su-total                                 6,800.0                                                             6,820.0
Total                                          51,108.0         44,308.0.                                           95,416.0
Jariary 12, 1983



-66-
XM IA AI1U=Z          EZBM ID MU   SA33H PBW=0
out      s :             hrm - Cvil Wok
19i3/84         198W/85          19WS86           1986/87           TWal
unit Cxt Wi                     *    t      thts       t     Wits,              i adts  t
uWt          '00) _Z$      7*'IX1    _                -      Z$'10   __       Z$'(3)O   _     ____
Staff &s-                                -                           -            -                                -       -
-     CPU
Staff hsm           k        b       9,350     5        46.8      _       -                   _ _ _  _             5       46.8
Wtop & Office              Sq.         100      -        -    350        35.0    -         -      -         -    350       35.0
CMdhDII CPU
Staff lom                  Amer    9,350       -         -      6        56.1    -         -      -         -      6       56.1
KBu CPU
Staff B,Ms        l         4tr    9,350       5        46.8    -         -                                        5       46.8
Staff a                                  _-_ -  -        -      -         -                       _-                       -
Pins Est. Sts-
Staff Hem                  Nubr    9,350        1        9.4    -         -      -         -      -        -       1        9.4
Fencilg                      FA     11,200     2.5      28.0    -         -                                        2.5    28.0
Tota AgmmW  LBti0Ate                                  131.0             91.1                                             222.1
Cotton SRmdh
Staff BMW"                   NWAer    9,350    39       230.5   40        374.0   50       467.5    -        -    129   1,122.0
Fecirg                         Ibt    11,203     -         -      4.25    47.6    -          -      _        _       4.25   47.6
Intera  Read Uod              lb       3,60D     -         -      6.00    21.6    -          -      -        -       6.00   21.6
Miter Rmr  6Pipr               -           -     -         -      -        18.0    -         -                       -       18.0
Total Cottnn FAladh                                  280.5            461.2            467.5                          1,209.2
k4 Imtit,te
Stff th     (QM)             amber    9,350      6        56.1    -        -       -         -      -        -       6       56.1
Off1m &Ald1zg (Q-eL)           -           -     -         -      -         4.0    _        -        -               -       4.0
gnu DM hqwom  -t                        -                  -      -        29.0    -        -       -        -       -       20.0
MC eUats     (Bars)            -           -     -         -      -        15.0    -         -      -        -       -       15.0
la1.i cm  Itsiz   Out.                              56.1             39.0                                              95.1
Lw,sld statim
rhmdzi                       Bober    9,350      6        56.1    8        74.8    -        -       -        -      14     130.9
QPd _pe                      ambr    9,350       4        37.4    5        46.8    -        _       -        -       9       84.2
Ttal la.ld St3at1                                     93.5            121.6                                             215.1
Total acg1                                               561.1            712.9            467.5                          1,741.5
atr ad m
Staff  1
Harare                     Ambr    9,350       -         -      -         -      -         -      -         -      -        -
-'tq  CPU                  lr.       9,350      9       84.2   10        93.5    -         -      -         -     19      177.7
CIf  <iQCU                 r         9,350      5       46.8    5        46.8    -                          -     10       93.6
Yad_ CPU1                   Nrb      9,350     4        37.4    5        46.     -         -      -         -      9       84.2
lnotlU3                   lAmbr    9,350       -         -       2       18.7    -         -      -         -      2       18.7
?AP=                       Mwlr     9,350     4        37.4    5        46.8    -                         -       9       84.2
M*al CA i   FS U                                         5       '      252.6                                     49       58W.4
Lr   Stations                  Ubr    9,350    10           93.5   11       102.8    -                          -     21      196.3
cottam Rasar&
Staff  _m                    amer    9,350       9        84.2    9        84.2    -         -      -        -      18      168.4
OCU hudizg
Staff W.
Neor    9,350    11          93.5   27       252.5    -         -      -         -     37      346.0
1oin                     Sabr      9,350      8       74.8    5        46.8    -         -      -         -      9      121.6
pEl                      Raor    9,350        4       37.4    5        46.8    -         -      -         -      9       84.2
p R_du  Ta1                                                589.2            785.7                                           1,374.9
_mUV S
Catzy &  .LI Izatitu
Staff _omin                l         9,350     -         -      6        56.1    -         -      -        -       6      56.1
Offim& Sto                 Sq            -      -        -      -        25.0    -         -      -         -      -       25.0
n1id Plots 1 w21 l t       11        2,000    10        20.0   10        20.0    -         -      -        -      20      40.0
Irrti  FAdtis                -           -     -         5.0    -        46.8    -         -      -         -      -      51.8
171.9
PItProteaotm  lmitutiW
I1ut-y 0-l                                               -      -       290.0    -         -      -         -      -      290.0
Staff Hu. MelId)           lr8       9,350    10        93.5    -        -       -         -      -        -      10       93.5
1Aooty  mms laid)           -           -      -       50.0    -         -      -         -      -         -      -       50.0
Total IAaC Say1I                                         168.5            43.9               -                -             G06.4
TWsA     bm,                                                 907.7          1,373.6              -               -            2,281.3
Tota Civil i                                              1,318.8          1,936.5            467.5                          3,722.8
awn 29, L9



- 67 -                                      Table T-20
S                   ZZINBiE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND nRSEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimtes: Research Program - Vehicles
1983/84           1984/85            19B5/86            1986/87            Total
Unit Cost  Units    A -ount  Units    Amount   Units    Amount   Units    Anount  Units    Amount
Units        2S                 U -                         -         Z5       _        Z$      _       __
Crop Resesrch
Agronoo-; Inatitutc
Lorries                       Number    25,000       1        25.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        25.0
Harare
Pickups                       'amber     8,900                                   -         -                                    -         -
Harare                      Number     8,900       4        35.6     -          -       -          -       -          -       4       35.6
Matopcs CPU                   -             -      -         -        -         -       -          -       -          -       -         -
Mlakoholi CPU               Number     8,900       3        26.7      -         -       -          -       -          -       3        26,7
Kadoma CPU                  Number     8,900       1         8.9            -       -         -            -          -       I        89
Henderson WIRU              Number     8,900       2        17.8      -         -       -          -       -          -       2       17.8
Pansmure Expt. St.          Number     8,900       1         8.9     -          -       -          -       -          -       1         8,9
Motorcycles
Makoholi CPU                Number      1,500      2         3.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       2         3.0
Kadoms CPU                  Number      1,500      1         1.5     -          -       -          -       -          -       1         1,5
Pannure Expt. St.           Number     1,500       1         1.5     -          -       -          -       -          -       1         1.5
Tractor6 (75 NP)
Panmure CPU                 Number    20,500       1        20.5     -          -       -          -       -          -       1       20.5
Sub-total                                                149.4                                                                     149.4
Cotton Research Institute
4 ID Vehicles                 Number    12,000       1        12.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        12.0
Pickups                       Number     8,900       1         8.9      -         -        -         -       -          -       1         8.9
motorcycles                   Number      1,500      1         1.5      -         -       -          -       -          -       I         1.5
Tractor (75 BP)               Number    20,500       1        20.5      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        20.5
Tractor (50 hP)               Number    14,500       1        14.5      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        14.5
Sub-total                                                 58.3                                                                      58.3
Crop Breading
Pickups                       Number     8,900       3        26.7      -         -        -         -       -          -       3        26.7
Tractors (50 HP)              Number    14,500       2        29.0      -         -        -         -       -          -       2        29.0
Sub-total                                                 55 7                                                                      5
Lowveld Stations
Chredmi
4 ND Vehicles               Number    12,000       1        12.0     -          -       -          -       -          -       1        12.0
Saloon                      Number    10,000       1        10.0     -          -       -          -       -          -       I        10.0
Pickups                     NumAber    8,900       1         8.9      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        8.9
Motorcycles                 Nusber     1,500       2         3.0     -          -       -          -       -         -        2        3.0
Chisumbaanj i
4 WD Vehicles               Number    12,000       1        12.0     -          -       -          -       -         -        I        12.0
Motorcycles                 Nuaber      1,500      2         3.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       2        3.0
Sub-total                                        8        48.9                                                              8       48.9
Total Backlog                                                312.2                                                                      312.2
Expansion
CART 6 FSR
4 ND Vehicles with Radio
Harare                      Number    12,000       2        24.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       2        24.0
Matopos CPU                 Number    12,000       2        24.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       2        24.0
Nakoholi CPU                Number    12,000       1        12.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        12.0
Kadoma CPU                  Number    12,000       1        12.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       1        12.0
Renderson WRU               Number    12,000       -         -        -         -       -          -       -          -       -        -
Panmure Expt. St.           Number    12,000       -                 -              -             -           -               -        -
Sub-total                                        6        7r                                                               7620
Lovveld Stations                Number    12,000       2         24.0     -         -        -         -       -          -        2       24.0
motorcycles
Narare                      Number     1,500                                   -         -                                    -        -
Hatopos CPU                 Number      1,500      6         9.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       6         9.0
Makoholi CPU                Number      1,500      4         6.0      -         -       -          -       -          -       4         6.0
Radom  CPU                  Number      1,500      3         4.5                -       -          -       -          -       3        4.5
Henderson WMU               Nsmber     1.500       2         3.0           -        -         -        -              -       2        3.0
Panmre Expt. St.            oamber     1,500       4         6.0     -          _       _          _          _               4        6.0
Loeveld Stations            Number     1,500      10        15.0      -         -       -          -       -          -      10        15.0
Sub-total                                                 ZT ';3T 
Total CART 6 FSR                                           139.5                                                                      139.5
Cotton Research                                   -                                           -
Crop Breeding
4 WD Vehicles                 Number    12,000       2        24.0      -         -       -          _       _          _       2        24.0
Chemistry 6 Soil Institute
Pickup                      Number     8,900       1         8.9     -          -       -          -       -          -       1         8.9
4 WD Vehicles                               -      -         -        -
Plant Protection Institute
pickups                     Number     8,900       5        44.5     -          -       -          -       -         -        5       44.5
4 WD Vehicles               Number    12,000       2        24.0                -       -          -       -                  2       24.0
'7       68s.5                                                             7-       68.5
Total Rapansion                                                240.9                                                                      240.9
Total Vehicles                                                   553.2                                                                      553.2
January 31, 1983



- 68 -
Table1T-21
D4CN2[iL  RMMUM EXICK AND  RE;EPFDJ
Cost EBtimates:PaeriPri 
1983/84         1984/85          1985/86         1986/87         Total
Unit Ccst Units   Ant     Units   Ahnt  Urfts   Aunt  Units   Amosnt  Units   Axtt
tunts    Z$ 'oO           Z$'0cO  __  _0_0                ____ ____                        _____o
Agrooy IrEtitute
KRdtm CPU
Lboraty Balnces       -           -      -        1.5                      -              -         -      -         5
wedes WRLJ
Irilubtomh            -           -      -        4.0    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       4.0
Pezire Eipt. St.
Trailer               -           -      -        1.0    -        -       -               -         -      -       1.0
Weldirg               -           -      -        0.8    -         -      -        -       -        -      -       0.8
Rotary Mbir           -           -      -        2.5    -        -       -        -      -         -      -       2.5
9.8                                                              9.8
Cotton Resrdc
Air Conditionirg Plnt     -           -      -       25.0    -        -       -        -      -        -       -      25.0
Fibrh re                  -           -     -         3.5    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       3.5
MatrIg Tester             -           -      -        3.5    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       3.5
leica R4-M  Cooanm        -           -               2.0             -       -        -      -        -       -       2.0
Adcid 'Ditirg Serv        -           -      -        2.1    -         -  -       -           -        -       -       2.1
Field G nreed e           -           -     -        20.0             -       -        -      -        -       -      20.0
Rotay SlhRr               -           -      -        2.5    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       2.5
Particle Size Analyzer    -           -     -         5.0    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       5.0
Fibre Blenr               -           -     -         3.5    -        -      -         -      -        -      -        3.5
MislamBxt                 -           -      -        5.0    -        -      -         -      -        -       -       5.0
72.1                                                             72.1
Croq Breethg
Bird Pro  Nettirg         -           -     -         3.1    -        -      -        -       -        -      -        3.1
Mbaer                     -           -     -         1.0    -        -      -         -      -        -       -       1.0
4.1                                                              4.1
Total Baddog                                         86.0                                                             86.0
CAT & FSB
Harare                      -           -     -        15.0    -        -      -         -      -        -      -       15.0
Matopsx CPU                 -           -     -        10.-    -        -      -         -      -        -      -       10.0
YWkdhli CI                  -           -     -         5,0    -        -      -         -      -        -      -        5.0
K     XmaCU                 -           -     -         5.0    -        -      -        -       -        -      -        5.0
ewron kW                    -           -     -         -      -        -      -         -      -        -      -        -
Penmr EFpt. St.             -           -     -         5,0    -        -      -         -      -        -      -        5.0
ub-total                                             W                                                               40.0
lowueld Statiou             -           -     -        10.-    -        -       -        -               -       -      10.0
Cotton Reardc               -           -     -         5.0    -        -      -         -      -        -      -        5.0
OCV  8enLrg
Harare                    -           -     -         5.0    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       5.0
tatqxs -tmize             -           -     -         5.0    -        -      -         -      -        -      -        5.0
Pulas            -           -     -         5.0    -        -      -        -       -        -      -        5.0
NdtdDli - Gr mts          -           -     -         5.0    -        -      -         -      -        -       -       5.0
20.0                                                             20.0
SaOl Testing Seivioa
Specabtrcweter
pH etes & hbla            -           -     -         -      -       20.0    -         -      -        -       -      20.0
Soil rcsion Studie        -             -     -        -       -        5.0    -        -       -        -      -        5.0
Sludh  & Runcff Handig                                               25.0                                             25.0
;                       -           -      -       20.0    -        -       -        -      -        -       -      20.0
Dyipg    I                                  -         4.0    -        -      -         -      -        -       -       4.0
Balncsa, Caldlatore &
S ri                    -           -      -        4.5    -        -       -        -      -        -       -       4.5
=28.
Plat Protection Izstitite
AltracatrifEu, adaot-,
vlerreospes, ianihtors,
banc  & m ries         -           -      -       57.0    -        -       -        -      -        -       -      57.0
Seed Cetifiation Sexvicw    -           -               7,0    -        -      -         _               -      -        7.0
Total lersion                                     167.5             25.0            10.0              8.0          189.5
In-Service jga1ntng                                      15.0            15.0             10.0             8.0            48.0
Total Fqdpet                                            268.5            40.0             10.0             8.0           326.5
Jairy 31, 1983



NAMICAL AGIQULTURAL lESI0N AND RE;ARCH 1PRaET
Cost Estimates: Research Progran - (bnsultancy, Technical Assistance, Felloships & StLy Iburs
1983/84          1984/85          1985/86          1986/87          Total
Unit Ccst UnLits   Anmin  Units   Aimunt  Uniits   AMDnrt  Urits   Amxint  Units   AMiDxxt
Units    Z$ _000           Z$'000           Z$'X)0     _      Z$'000           S$'000           Z$'000
Cosultac Services
OrgaTdzation & Adan.      mmrnth  6,100    18           109.8    6        36.6    -         -       -        -      24      146.4
Techiical Assistance
Trainivg Coordinator      on-wnth  6,100        6        36.6   12        73.2   12        73.2   36        36.6   36       219.6
Unecified a/              mwrnmith  6,100    37         225.7  148       902.8  148       902.8   51       311.1  384   2,342.4
Sub-total                                   43       262.3  160       976.0  160       976.0   57        347e7  420)   2562.0
SaLl Survey                                             150.0            150.0              -                _              300.0
Total Tech. Assist. & Coa.                                522.1          1,162.6            976.0            347.7          3,008.4
Fe2lowshp!  and Study Tours  narnth  1,600    84          134.4  12D       192.0  12D       192,0   60        96.0  384       614.4
al Several possibilties bave been idertified (inuchidig in tie fields of researdi maaemert, plant keeding,
plant protection, farmhg systemr research, cotton agroncuy and patiloagy, etc.) but R ard SS will need to
specify in its detailed anmal p1axs (para. 5.13) the precise tedhical assistance uses to 1hich t1Ese furds
woud be put.
April 20, 1983



_ 70 -                     Table T-23
Page I
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Research Program - Recurrent Costs
1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87       Total
 ------------------ Z$   '000-
Non-Incremental
Salaries, Wages & Allowances
Directorate & Administration           232.0      232.0       232.0       232.0      928.0
Crop Research
Agronomy Institute                   435.0
Cotton Research                     440.0
Crop Breeding                       380.0
Hort. & Coffee Research             466.0
Lowveld Stations                     366.0
Total Crop Research                2,087,0    2,087.0    2,087.0      2,087.0   8,348.0
Livestock & Pasture Research         2,283,0    2,283.0    2,283.0      2,283.0   9,132.0
Research Services
Biometric Bureau                     134.0
Chemistry & Soil Research           531.0
Plant Protection                    392.0
Information Services                 48.0
Agricultural Engineering             308.0
Nat. Hob. & Bot. Gardens            202.0
Seed Services                        123.0
Other Research Services               30.0
Total Research Services                                   1,768.0     1,768.0   7,072.0
Total Salaries, Wages
& Allowances                      6,370.0    6,370.0    6,370.0       6,370.0  25,480.0
Other Recurrent Costs a/
Directorate & Administration           197.0      197.0       197.0       197.0      788.0
Crop Research                          700.0      700.0       700.0       700.0   2,800.0
Livestock & Pasture Research           791.0      791.0       791.0        791.0   3,164.0
Research Services
Biometric Bureau                     50.0
Chemistry & Soil Research            100.0
Plant Protection                     60.0
Information Services                 50.0
Agricultural Engineering             145.0
Nat. Herb. & Bot. Gardens             41.0
Seed Services                        40.0
Sundries                              10*0        _
Total Research Services              496.0      496.0       496.0       496.0   1,984.0
Total Other Recurrent Costs          2,184.0    2,184.0    2,184.0      2,184.0   8,736.0
Total Non-Increm. Recurrent Costs    8,554.0    8,554.0    8,554.0        8,554.0  34,216.0



- 71 -                          Table T-23
Page 2
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Research Program - Recurrent Costa
1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87        Total
-- - --     z- - -------$ '000 --------  
Incremental b/
Backlog
Directorate S Administration
Crop Research
Salaries, wages & Allowances
Agronomy Institute                    46.0        80.0        80.0         80.0
Cotton Research                        -           -           -            -
Crop Breeding                         27.0        54.0        54.0         54.0
Hort. & Coffee Research                -           -           -            -
Lowveld Station                        35.3       70.5        70.5         70.5
108.3      204.5.5                  204.5      721.8
Other Recurrent Costs a/
Agronomy Institute                    42.7        77.5        77.5         77.5
Cotton Research                       26.5        53.1        53.1         53.1
Crop Breeding                          16.7       33.5        33.5         33.5
Hort. & Coffee Research                -           -           -            -
Lowveld Station                       26.4        52.8        52.8         52.8
1F2.3       216.9      216.9        216.9      763.0
Total Crop Research                 220.6       421.4       421.4        421.4   1,484.8
Livestock and Pasture Research             -           -          -            -
Research Services                          -           -          _            _
Total Backlog                            220.6       421.4      421.4        421.4   1,484.8
Expansion
Directorate and Administration             -           -          -            -
Crop Research
Salaries, Wages & Allowances
CART & FSR                          146.8       293.5       293.5        293.5
Cotton Research                      32.3        64.5        64.5         64.5
Crop Breeding                       106.0       212.0       212.0        212.0
Hort. & Coffee Research               -           -           -            -
Lowveld Stations                     41.5        83.0        83.0         83.0
326.6      653.0       653.0        653.0   2,285.6
Other Recurrent Costs t/
CRT & YSR                            27.5        54.9        54.9         54.9
Cotton Research                        1.8         3.7        3.7          3.7
Crop Breeding                         7.9        15.8        15.8         15.8
Haort. & Coffee Research              -           -           -            -
Lowveld Station                       9.6        19.3        19.3         19.3
4X6.8   ET37           1Y7          93,7      327.9
Total Crop Research               373.4       746.7       746.7        746.7   2,613.5
Livestock & Pasture Research               -           -          -            -
Research Services
Salaries, Wages & Allowances
Soil Testing services              10.1        20.5        20.5         20.5
Soil Erosion Studies               14.0        29.5        29.5         29.5
Plant Protection                   22.5        43.0        43.0         43.0
Seed Certification Services        13.5        27.0        27.0         27.0
Other Services                      -           -           -            -
7          120.0     T12.0         120.0      420.1
Other Recurrent Costs a/
Soil Testing Services               0,3         0.6         0.6          0.6
Soil Erosion Studies                2.0         4.0         4.0          4.0
Plant Protection                   13.4        26.8        26.8         26.8
Seed Certification Services         0.3         0.7         0.7          0.7
Other Services                      -           -           -            -
T;7        T2!          2.1         32.1      112.3
Total Research Services                     76.1       152.1       152.1        152.1     532.4
Total Expansion                         449.5      898.8       898.8        898.8   2,945.9
In-Service Training                           30.0        40.0        40.0         20.0     130.0
Total Incremental Costs                      700.1    1,360.2    1,360.2        1,340.2   4,760.7
Total Recurrent Costs                      9,254.1    9,914.2    9,914.2       9,894.2  38,976.7
a/ Includes subsistence and transport, office supplies and other operating costs.
b/ Salaries, wages and allowances and other recurrent costs based on Appendix I and Appendix II
respectively of this table.
April 20, 1983



Table T-23
- 72 -                                    Appendix I
ZDA
NMON~tAL AWCUiLaURAL EXIMION AN) RESARCH PRaMEC
Cost Estimates: Research Progrm - Rearrent Costs (Incremettal Salares, Wes & Allaarces) a/
R.O. at $10,000 p.a. R.T. at $7,500  a. T.A. at $3,500 p.a. Hards at $3,Dopa.           Thtal
Nimber   hm=t        Number  Amount      Niumer   bint        Nuber   Amhnt        Nu.mer Am2unt
Z$'000              Z$'000              z$fooD                WOOD               Z$000
Bacdlog
2p Resac
Agronory ILstitute
Harare                     -         -                               4        14.0       5         15.0        9      29.0
MatopsCPU                  -          -         -         -          -        -          5         15.0        5       15.0
Makboli CPU                -          -         -         -          -        -          6         18.0       6       18.0
Kadana CIU                 -         -          -         -          -        -          5         15.0       5       15.0
Henderson kU               -         -          -         -          -        -          -          -         -        -
Parmwre Ept. St.           -         -          -         -         -         -          1          3.0       1        3.0
Cotton Researdc              -                                -       -         -          -          -         -        -
Cro Breeliig                 -         -          -         -          6       21.0       11         33.0       17      54.0
Hbrt. & Coffee Researdc      -         -          -         -         -         -                     -         -        -
lowseld Researdi Stations    -         -          -         -          3       10.5       20         60.0      23       70.5
Total Backlog: Crop Res.     -         -          -         -         13       45.5       53        159.0       66     204.5
bEasicm
Curop Paeac
CArE & FSR
Harare                     2        20.0        1         7.5       7        24.5       10         30.0      20       82.0
Matopos CPU                3        30e0        2        15.0        4       14.0       10         30,0      19       89.0
MbohDli C(U                1         10.0       1         7.5        3        10.5       5         15.0       10      43.0
Kadoma CPU                 1         10,0        1        7.5        2        7.0        5         15.0        9      39.5
HendersW                   -         -          -         -         2         7.0        -          -         2        7.0
PamuLre Expt. St.          -                    1         7.5        3       10.5        5         15.0       9       33.0
Total CART & FSR           7         70.0       6        45.0       21       73.5       35        105.0       69     293.5
Lowyeld Stations             1         10.0       2        15.0        8       28.0       10         30,0       21      83.0
Cotton Researdi Irstitute    -         -          1         7.5       12       42.0        5         15,0      18       64.5
Crop Breedizr
Hrare                      -         -          1         7.5      16        56.0       10         30,0      27       93,5
Matops - Maize             1         10.0       1         7.5        2        7.0        5         15.0       9       39.5
Pulses           1         10.0        1        7,5        2         7.0       5         12.0        9      39.5
Makobli - Greundxts        1         10.0        1        7.5        2        7.0        5         15.0       9       39.5
Total Crop Research                   110.0                97.5               220.5                 225.0              653.0
Research Services
Soil Testirg Servics       -         -          1         7.5        2        7.0        2          6,0       5       20.5
Soil Erosion Studies       1         10.0       1         7.5       -         -          4         12.0       6       29.5
Plant Protection           -         -                    -          8       23.0        5         15.0      13       43.0
Seed Certification Sces.   2        20.0        -         -         2         7.0        -                    4       27.0
Total Researdt Services      3        30.0        2        15.0       12       42.0       11         33,0      28      133.0
Total lparsion            14        140,0      15       112.5       75       262.5      86        258,0      190     773.0
a/ Figues sh,wn are for the year 1984/85 which are applied to the aubsuenrt two years
(1985/86 - 1986/87). Th figures for 1983/84 are estimted to be onehalf t1e level sbIwn.
April 22, 1983



Table T-23
- 73 -                                    Apprdix II
NATiCaL AMF2ULTURAL EEEIIN AND RESEAH PR3JCr
Cost Estimates: Research Proran - Recrant Costs (Incrental Subsistence, Travel and MSc       o) a/
(Z$ 000)--
Construction
Water &    Office   Stores &       Subsistenoe  Vdxicles Equipaent
Electit   Supplies Mantenance         Travel       0 & M      0 & M    Sundries   Total
Agroncmy Irstitute
Harare                         -         0.9         3.2            7.3        16.8       -         2.1      30.3
Matopos CPU                    -         -           0.9            1.8        -          -         0.6        3e3
MacohDli CU                    0.6       0.3         2,4            3.2        9.1        -         1.2      16.8
Kaloma CRP                     -         -           1.3            1.5        3.2        -         0.6       6.6
Henderson WU                   -         -           2.1            3.2        5.4        0.3       0.6       11.6
Parmire Expt. St.              1.2       -           1.3            1.8        3.7        0.3       0.6       8.9
Total Agronr Irst.           1.8        1.2       11,2           18.8        38.2       0.6       5.7      77.5
Cotton Research                  7.1       2.9        11.8           12.3       12.8        4.1       2.1      53.1
Crop Breedixg                    1.5       2.4        19.6           10.3       17.1        0.3       2.1      53.3
lowveld Research Stations
chwlzi                         6.7        2.4        8.5           11.5       16.6        -         0.5      46.2
Chisumbenje                    2.1       0.3         1.8            1.5         -         0.6       0.3       6.6
Total Isveld Statiors        8.8        2.7                      13.0                    .6  5 h8
Total Backlog: Crop Researdc      19.1       9.1        52.9           54.4       84.7        5.6      10.9     236.7
E9 isionl
(.Yo Rtesearch
CARf & FSR
Harare                         -         0.7         -              4.1        9.2        0.3       -        14.3
Matopos CPU                    -         0.7         -              4.4       12.2        0.2       -         17.5
Makcholi CEU                   -         0.3         -              2.2        6.6        0.1       -         9.2
Kad        CPU                 -         0.3         -              2.0        6.1        0.1       -         8.5
Herderso  i                    -         -           -              0.4        1.0        -         -          1.4
Panme Expt. St.                -         0.3         -              1.6        2.0        0.1       -         4.0
Total CAKF&                  -         2,3         -             14.7       37.1        0.8       -         54.9
Cotton Researdi                  -         0.6         -              3.2        -          0.1       -         3.9
Crop Breedirg                    -         0.9         -              5.3        9,2        0.4       -         15.8
Lowveld Statiors                 -         0.7         -              4.2       14.2        0.2       -         19.3
Total Crop Research                      4.5                       27.4       60.5        1.5                93.9
Research Services
Soil Testing Services          -         -           -              0.1        -          0.5       -         0.6
Soil Erosion Studies           -                     -              0.7        2.7        0.6      -          4.0
Plant Protection               -                     -              2.2       22.7        1.9       -        26.8
Seed Certification Sces.      -           _          -             0.7    '   -           -         -         0.7
Total Researdi Services      -                                    3.7       25.4        3.0                32.1
Total Easion                      -         4.5         -             31.1       85.9        4.5       -        126.0
Injervice TrAn                   -         -           -              -          -          -         -        130.0
W Figtres s1yn are for the year 1984/85 which are applied to th-e ns      t tim years
(1985/86 - 1986/87). The figures for 1983/84 are estimated to be one-haf the level shln.
April 25, 1983



Table T-24
- 74 -                                         Page I
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Extension and Research Programs; Summary by Functioral Categories
F.E.
Norr          F.E.         F.E.
Functional Categories              1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87    Total    F.E.  Incremental  Incremental   Total
'000  - ------ -'----                        --     '000   --        =
Extension Program
Directorate & Administration
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                      404.3      404.3      404.3      404.3   1,617.2    20          323.4                      323.4
Incremental
Civil Works                            -          -          -          -           -      -           -              -           -
Vehicles                              37.8       37.8        -          -         75.6    70           -             52.9        52.9
Equipment                              1.1        -          -          -           1.1    90          -              1.0         1.0
Tech. Asst. & Consultants              -         36.6       73.2        -        109.8    100          -            109.8       109.8
Fellowship & Study Tours               4.5        9.0        -          -         13.5    100          -             13.5        13.5
Sub-total: Incremental              43.4       83.4       73.2        -        200.0                 -           177.2          -
Recurrent Costs                       41.2       92.2      102.0      102.0      337.4    20           _             67.5        67.5
Total Incremental                     84.6      175.6      175.2      102.0      537.4                 -            244.7       244.7
Total Directorate & Admin.                488.9      579.9      579.9      506.3   2,154.6                323.4         244.7       568.1
Technical Services
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                      1,810.6   1,810.6   1,810.6   1,810.6   7,242.4
Incremental Costs
Capital Costs                            -          -           -         -           -
Recurrent Costs                          -          -         _           -           -                  -             _            -
Total Technical Services               1,810.6   1,810.6   1,810.6   1,810.6   7,242.4    20           1,448.5            _       1,448.5
In-Service Training
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                      1,140.0   1,140.0   1,140.0   1,140.0   4,560.0    20             912.0          -           912.0
Incremental
Civil Works                                  -          -          -          -              -                -                   -
Vehicles                             137.9        -          -          -        137.9                 -            96.5         96.5
Equipment                            111.8      200.0        -          -        311.8    90           -           280.6        280.6
Tech. Asst. & Consultants            128.1      128.1       36.6        -        292.8    100          -           292.8        292.8
Fellowships & Study Tours             68.4      100.0       88.0       60.8      316.8    100          -           316.8        316.8
Sub-total: Incremental             445.8      428.1      124.6       60.8   1,059.3                  -           986.7        986.7
Recurrent Costs                        148.8      362.8      343.4      216.5   1,071.5    20            -            214.3       214.3
Total Incremental                  594.6      790.9      468.0      277.3   2,130.8                  -         1,201.0    1,201.0
Total In-Service Training            1,734.6   1,930.9   1,608.0   1,417.3   6,690.8                   912.0        1,201.0    2,113.0
Field Services
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                   13,108.8  13,108.8  13,108.8  13,108.8  52,435.2    20    10,487.1                  -      10,487.1
Incremental
Civil Works                        1,020.7   2,244.9   1,870.0   2,431.0   7,566.6    40               -         3,026.6    3,026.6
Vehicles                             786.0      690.0        -          -      1,476.0    70           -         1,033.2    1,033.2
Equipment                                               -          -                         -                        -           -
Tech. Asst. & Consultants
Fellowships & Study Tours                                                     -                                                   -
Sub-total Costs: IncrementL           1,806.7   2,934.9   1,870.0   2,431.0   9,042.6                10,487.1        4,059.8    4,059.8
Recurrent Costs                           528,0   1 036.1   1 569.7   2 082.8   5 216.6    20               -         1,043.3     1,043.3
2,334:7   3,971:0  35439.7    4513 .8  14,259.2                                              _
Total Field Services              15,443.5  17,079.8  16,548.5  17,622.6  66,694.4                10,487.1       5,148.6   15,635.7
Pilot Schemes
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                       28.3       28.3       28.3       28.3      113.2    20          22.6            -          22.6
Incremental
Civil Works                            -          -          -          -          -                   -              -           -
Vehicles                              75.4       63.5        -          -        138.9    70           -             97.2        97.2
Equipment                             51.1      144.3        -          -        195.4    90           -            175.9       175.9
Tech. Asst. & Consultants              -          -          -          -          -                   -              -           -
lellowshipis& Xtudy 'Tours             4 4.5      5.0        -          -          13.5    M0D                       13.5        13.5
Sub-total: Incremental             131.0      216.8        -          -        461.0                             286.6        321.2
Recurrent Costs                          61.6      188.8     255.9      255.9       762.2    20          -            152.4       152.4
Total Incremental                    192.6      405.6      255.9      255.9   1,110.0                 34.6          439.0       473.6
Total Pilot Schemes                    220.9       433.9     284.2       284.2   1,233.2                 22.6         439.0       461.6
Total Extension Program                  19,698.5  21,835.1  20,830.8  21,641.0  84,005.4                13,193.6       7,033.3   20,226.9



Table T-24
- 75 -                                            Page 2
F.E.
Non-          F.E.         F.E.
1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87    Total    F.E.  Incremental  Incremental   Total
-~~~~~~~~Z  100  --- ----X ---- ----  Z$    0            0 0          TOO
Research Program
Directorate & Administration
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                        429.0      429.0     429.0      429.0   1,716.0
Incremental                                           -          -
Total Directorate & Admin.                 429.0      429.0      429.0      429.0   1,716.0    20         343.2           -         343.2
Crop Research
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                     2,787.0   2,787.0   2,787.0   2,787.0  11,148.0    20          2,229.6            -       2,229.6
Incremental
Backlog al
Civil Works                         561.1      712.9      467.5        -      1,741.5    40          -           696.6        696.6
Vehicles                             312.3        -         -          -        312.3    70           -           218.6       218.6
Equipment                             86.0             -               -         86.0    90           -            77.4        77.4
Sub-total                     959.       712.9      467.5        -     2,139.8             2,229.6         992.6    3,222.2
Recurrent Costs                      220.6      441.2     441.2      441.2   1,544.2    20            -           308.8       308.8
Total Backlog               1,180.0   1,154.1       908.7      441.2   3,684.0    -        2,229.6       1,301.4    3,531.0
Expansion
Civil Works                         589.2      785.7        -          -      1,374.9    40           -          549.9       549.9
Vehicles                             163.5        -         -          -        163.5    70           -           114.4       114.4
Equipment                             75.0       -          -          -         75.0    90           -            67.5        67.5
Sub-total                     827.7      785.7        -          -     1,613.4                             731.8       731.8
Recurrent Costs                      373.4     746.9      746.9      746.9   2,614.1    20                        522.8       522.8
Total Expansion             1,201.1   1,532.6       746.9      746.9   4,227.5                           1,254.6    1,254.6
Total Incremental                 2,381.1   2,686.7   1,655.6   1,188.1   7,911.5
Total Crop Reseach                     5,168.1   5,473.7   4,442.6   3,975.1  19,059.5                2,229.6       2,556.Q    4,785.6
Livestock & Pastures
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                      3,074.0   3,074.0   3,074.0   3,074.0  12,296.0
Incremental                                -          -          -          -         -
Total Livestock & Pastures             3,074.    3           3,074.0   3,074.0 O 3 12,26.     20      2,459.2                   2,459.2
Research Services
Non-Incremental
Recurrent Costs                     2,264.0   2,264.0   2,264.0   2,264.0   9,056.0    20           1,811.2           -       1,811.2
Incremental
Expansion
Civil Works                          168.5     437.9        -          -        606.4    40          -           242.6        242.6
Vehicles                              77.4        -         -          -         77.4    70           -            54.2        54.2
Equipment                             92.5      25.0        -          -        117.5    90           -           105.8       105.8
Sub-total                         338.4      462.9        -                   801.3
Recurrent Costs                       76.1      152.1     152.1      152.1      532.4    20           -           106.5       106.5
Total Expansion                     414.5      615.0      152.1      152.1   1,333.7                              509.1       509.1
Total Research Services                2,82B.5   3,029.0   2,416.1   2,416.1  10,689.7                1 811.2         809.1    2,620.3
Technical Assistance & Consultants
Technical Assistance                     262.3      976.0      976.0     347.7   2,562.0
Consultants                              109.8       36.6        -          -       146.4
Total Tech. Asst. & Cons.            3721   1,012.        976.0      37.7   2,708.4   100             -        2,708.4    2,708.4
Soil Survey                              150.0      150.0        -         -        300.0   100           -           300.0       300.0
Sub-total                             522.1   1,162.6      976.0        77    3,008.4   100            -         3008.4    3,008.4
Fellowships & Study Tours                  134.4      192.0      192.0       96.0      614.4   100          -           614.4       614.4
In-Service Training
Equipment                                 15.0       15.0       10.0        8.0      48.0    90           -            43.2        43.2
Recurrent Costs                           30,0       40.0       40.0       20.0     130.0    50           -            65.0        65.0
Total In-Service Training                 45.0       55.0       50.0       28.0      178.0                -           108.2       108.2
Total Research Program                12,051.1  13,265.3  11,579.7  10,365.9  47,262.0                6,843.2       6,796.1   13,639.3
Total Extension and Research            31,749.6  35,100.4  32,410.5  32,006.9 131,267.4               20,036.8      13,829.4   33,866.2
Physical Contingencies                   553.23    744.8       351.6      365.4   2,015.0    45           -           913.5       913.5
Price Contingencies
Non-Incremental                      2,238.6   4,819.5   7,352.3   9,203.5  23,613.9    20         4,722.6            -       4,722.6
Incremental                            692.7   2,011.5   2.226.1   2,930.4   7,860.7    38              -        3,023.2    3,023.2
Total Price Contingencies            3,931.3   6,831.0   9,578.4  12,133.9  31,474.6                4,722.6       3,023.2    7,745.8
Total Project Cost                      35,234.1  42,676.2  42,340.5  44,506.2 164,757.0    26    24,759.4           17,766.1   42,525.5
April 21, 1983



- 76 -                          Table 25
ZIMBABWE
NATIOSAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Extension and Research Program; Summary by Input Categories
Input Categories              1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87        Total
Z$  o00  ---________
Civil Works
Extension Program               1,020.7    2,244.9    1,870.0    2,431.0    7,566.6
Research Program                1 313.8    1 936.5        467.5         -       3,722.8
27                     2,337.5    2,431.0   11,289.4
Physical Coutingencies !/         350.9       627.2       350.6       364.6    1,693.3
Price Contingencies b/            269.0       907.4       755.0    1,055.0    2,986.4
Total Civil Work Costs        2,959.4    5,716.0    3,443.1    3,850.6   15,969.1
Vehicles
Extension Program               1,037.1       791.7         -           -       1,828.8
Research Program                  553.2         -           -           -         553.2
1 ,590.3      791.7        -           -       2,382.0
Physical Contingencies c/         159.0        79.2         -           -         238.2
Price Contingencies b/            160.0       148.1                     -         308.1
Total Vehicle Costs           1,909.3    1,019.0          -           -       2,928.3
Equipment
Extension Program                 164.0       344.3         -           -         508.3
Research Program                  268.5        40.0        10.0         8.0       326.5
432.5       384.3       10.0          8.0      834.8
Physical Contingencies c|          43.3        38.4         1.0         0.8        83.5
Price Contingencies  /             38.1        67.6         2.5         2.7       110.9
Total Equipment Costs           513.9       490.3        13.5        11.5    1,029.2
Technical Assistance
Extension                         128.1       164.7       109.8         -         402.6
Research d/                       522.1    1,162.6        976.0       347.7    3,008,4
650.2T1,327.3    1,085.8           347.7    3,411.0
Price Contingencies                45.5       199.1       238.9       100.8       583.5
Total Tech. Asat. & Cons.       695.7    1,526.4    1,324.7         447.7    3,994.5
Fellowships & Study Tours
Extension                          77.4       118.0        88.0        60.8       344.2
Research                          134.4       192.0       192.0        96.0       614.4
Total Fellowships & Study Tours    1.           310.0       280.0       T56.8       558.6
Price Contingencies b/             16.9        46.5        61.6        45.5       170.5
228.7       356.5      341.6       202.3    1,129.1
Recurrent Costs
Mon-Incremental
Extension                    16,492.0   16,492.0   16,492.0   16,492.0   65,968.0
Research                      8 554.0    8,554.0    8,554.0    8,554.0   34,216.0
25,046.0   25,046.0   25,046.0   25,046.0  100,184.0
Price Contingencies /         2,238.6    4,819.5    7 352.3    9,203.5   23,613.9
27,284.6   29,865.5   32,398.3   34,249.5  123,797.9
Increnental
Extension                       779.6    1,679.9    2,271.0    2,657.2    7,387.7
Research
Backlog                       220.6       441.2       441.2       441.2    1,544.2
Expansion                     479.5       938.8       938.8       918.8    3,275.9
TI71.7    3,0599    3,651.0    4,017 ,2   12,207.8
Price Contingencies             162.8       642.6    1 168.3    1 727.4    3 701,1
Total Recurrent Costs         28,117.1   33,568.0   37,217.6   39,994.1  139,706.8
Total Project Costs              35,234.1   42,676.2   42,340.5   44,506,2  164,757.0
Less Taxes and Duties  /          1,134.3    1,458.3        388.9       518.5    3,500.0
34,099.8   41,217.9   41,951.6   43,987.7  161,257.0
a/ At 15S of base costs.
'9/ As follows:
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87
Local: i          TT7       i-770-
Foreign: 2         7.5       7.0       6.0      6,0
c/ At 102 of base costs.
d/ Including Z$ 150,000 for Soil Survey per year in PYI and PY2.
e/ Duties at 33-113i on vehicles, at 20% on equipment; sales taxes on vehicles
and equivalent at 152 and sales tax on construction materials at 182.
Avril 21. 1983



ZBOE
NAT1GO4L AGRIa3UI, MX1CI AND WSFA4.M P90lW
Goerrnut Cash Flo Prose gi
(t h Mili?on)
1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 198,889 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/2000 2/X)1 2COI/ )2 222003
Cash inflow                                                                                                                                                               2
IFAD Lon bI                        2.0    4.6    4.9    3.4    1.4        -     -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -        -        -         -        -
Ber ln. F/                         1.4    3.3    3.5    2.5    1.1        -     -       -              -      -       -      -       -       -           -        -             -        -
rtota                            3.4    7.9    8.4    5.9    2.5        -             -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -        -        -         -        -
Duties and Tmac/                  1.2    1.4    0.4    0.5    -         -     -       -      -       _      _       _      -       -       _      _        _        _         _        _
4.6    9.3    8.4    6.4    2.5       -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -       -         -        -         -
Cash Outf 1
Projec Cata
Capital E:penditures d/          6.2    9.2    5.1    4.5    1.5        0.8   -       0.4    1.9    0.8    -        -       1.5    0.8    0,4    0.4       1.5      0.8       -         -
Rarrent Ca8te
Nx,retal e/                    27.3   29.9   32.4   34.2   34.2    34.2  34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2    34.2              34.2     34.2      34.2
ontal    -                      1.6    3.7    4.8    5.7    5.4       5.4   5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4           5.4       5.4      5.4       5.4
Total Project Csts                35.1   42.8   42.3   44.4   41.1    -0.4  39.6   40.0   415    40.4   39.6    9.6   41.1    40.4   40.0   40.0    41.1             404       39.6      39.6
Inter-t Cairges 
1FAD IDan                      0.1    0.2    0.4    0.5    0.7        0.7   0.7    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0,4           0.4       0.3      0.3       0.3
Bain lcn                      0.1    0.5    0.8    1.1    1.3        1.2   1.2    1.1    1.1    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.8    0.8    0.8           0.7       0.7      0.7       0.6
0.2    0.7    1.2    1.6    2.0       1.9   1,9    1.7    1.7    1.6    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.3    1.3    1.2            4.J      1.0 T.0            0.9
Logn Raepaymrts b/-
IFAD                         -       -       -      -       -       -      -      -       -      -       0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4         0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4
Bank                          -      -       -      -       -       0.4   0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6           0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6
Tctal Repsynts                 -       -      -       -      -        0.4   0.6      .6    0.6    0.6    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   1T.          1.0     1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
Tbtal Oltflcm                  35.3   43.5   43.5   46.0   43.1    42.7  42.1   42.3   43.8   42.6   42.2   42.1   43.6   42.7   42.3   42.2    43,2              42.4     41.6      41.5
Net C98h Flow
Amual Surplus (Deficit)       (30.7) (34.2) (35.1) (39.6) (40.6)  (42.7) (42.1) (42.3) (43.8) (42.6) (42.2) (42.1) (43.6) (42.7) (42.3) (42.2)  (43.2)   (42.4)   (41.6)   (41.5)
a/ At a,rent pries up to 1986/87 ard at 1986/87 cotaxt price theteaEter for all values exoept debt servcidr outlays;
no adjustuent mad for dzee in foreip eKd=W ratee.
baged - emtmated tsibrsemenat sdke   (Table T-28).
/ Frm Table T-25.
'T Aa       vzides rplaced e-ery fifth year a-d equ4 t every eight year.
e/ Relates to mIintainIr Agritae and R 6 SS budgt as aUlocated for tIe year 1982/83.
T/ Costs asaxmd to deewne slightly after fourth year Aen Pilot Sduie  are aWeted.
g      aAt 4% p. for IND and at 10.97% for Bank lkn; Bark darges iwliade a ceamttmerit fee at 0.75%.
Assm  10 years of gra  ard 40 years reayment for IEAD, ani 5 yeara if grc and 20 years renayet for Bark Loan,                                                                                              a
repnt aaied to be nu&r semi-ainially at equal axa,nt for each csh lcun.
April 22, 1983



- 78 -                     Table T-27
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of IFAD and Bank Loan (Excluding Duties & Taxes)
Total                     Proposed Loan
Categories                 Expenditure   Foreign   IFAD   Bank   Total
-------- -----  US$ million -
I.  Civil Works                       10.3         4.9     5.7      4.6    10.3
Price Contingencies               2.4          1.2     1.3      1.1      2.4
Sub-total                     12.7         6.1      7.0      5.7    T77
Disbursement would be at 80% of local expenditures.
II.  Vehicles and Equipment             2.9         2.2      2.0     0.9      2.9
Price Contingencies               0.3          0.2     0.2      0.1      0.3
Sub-total                      3.2         2.4      2.2      1.0     3.2
Disbursement will be at 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported
goods, 100% of total expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
goods, and 65% of total expenditure for locally procured goods.
III.  Tech. Asst. & Consultants          3.7         3.7      2.1     1.6      3.7
Price Contingencies               0.7         0.7      0.4      0.3      0.7
Sub-total                      4.4         4.4      2.5      1.9     4.4
Disbursement will be at 100% of total expenditure.
IV.  Fellowships & Study Tours          1.0         1.0      0.6     0.4      1.0
Price Contingencies               0.2         0.2      0.1      0.1      0.2
Sub-total                      1.2         1.2      0.7      0.5     1.2
Disbursement will be at 100% of total expenditure.
Total Capital Costs              21.5                 12.4      9.1    21.5
V.   Non-Incremental Recurrent
Costs                        110.2        22.0      -        -       -
Price Contingencies              26.0          5.2     -        -        -
Sub-total                    136.2        27.2      -        -       -
No disbursement will be made for this category.
VI.  Incremental Recurrent Costs    13.4            2.7      3.2      2.4     5.6
Price Contingencies               4.0         0.8      1.1      0,7      1;8
Sub-total                     17.4         3.5      4.3      3.1     7.4
Disbursement will be made at 45% of total expenditure.
VII.  Unallocated
Physical Contingencies             1.8        1.1      1.1      0.7      1.8
Price Contingencies               0.3         0.3   , 0.2       0.1      0.3
Sub-total                      2.1         1.4      1.3      0.8     2.1
Total Project costs              177.2       46.2 a/ 18.0    13.0    31.0
VIII.  Front End Fee                      -           -        -        0.1     0.1
Total Financing                 177.2        46.2    18.0    13.1    31.1
a! Incremental foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$19.0 million.
April 21, 1983



- 79 -                     Table T-28
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IFAD/Bank                    IFAD                      Bank                    Total
FY              Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulative
1983/84
1st Quarter 
2nd Quarter          -                   -            -            -                  -
3rd Quarter           0.9          0.9          0.6          0.6          1.5         1.5
4th Quarter           1.3          2.2          0.9          1.5          2.2         3.7
2.2                       1.5                       3.7
1984/85
1st Quarter           1.3          3.5          1.0         2.5           2.3         6.0
2nd Quarter           1.2          4.7          0.8         3.3           2.0         8.0
3rd Quarter           1.3          6.0          0.9          4.2          2.2        10.2
4th Quarter           1.3          7s3          0.9          5.1          2.2        12.4
5.1                       TX
1985/86
Ist Quarter           1.4          8.7          1.0         6.1           2.4        14.8
2nd Quarter           1.2          9.9          0.9         7.0           2.1        16.9
3rd Quarter           1.4         11.3          1.0          8.0          2.4        19.3
4th Quarter           1.4         12.7          1.0          9.0          2.4        21.7
5.4                       3.9                       9.3
1986/87
lst Quarter           1.1         13.8          0.8         9.8           1.9        23.6
2nd Quarter           0.8         14.6          0.6        10.4           1.4        25.0
3rd Quarter           0.9         15.5          0.7         11.1          1.6        26.6
4th Quarter           0.9         16.4          0.7        11.8           1.6        28.2
3.7                       2.8                       6.5
1987/88
1st Quarter           0.7         17.1          0.5        12.3           1.2        29.4
2nd Quarter           0.9         18.0          0.7        13.0           1.6        31.0
1.6                       1.2                       2.8
Sub-total          18.0         18.0         13.0        13.0         31.0         31.0
Front End Fee         -            -            0.1         .0.1          0.1         0.1
Total                18.0         18.0         13.1         13.1         31.1        31.1
a/ Assumes Project becomes effective at the beginning of Second Quarter of
1983/84. Excluding Front End Fee for Bank Loan.
April 21, 1983



80 -                          Annexi
Page 1
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJEZCT
Technical Packages and the Communal Areas
A. Existing Technical Messages for the Communal Areas:
1.01      Zimbabwe has had an active agricultural research program aid much
that is known can already be directly applied in the Communal Arees.  In
this regard, the extension service has a vital role to play.  Luring the
first several years of the Project, while the adaptive research orogram is
underway and the resulting recommendations are not yec available, the
extension service would focus its efforts mainly on promoting the following
kinds of better farm management and crop husbandry practices vhich are
already well known but largely neglected:
1002      Early Plowing:  Time of plowing will normally depend ona the
previous crop, but many farmers in the Communal Areas are plowing too
late. The result has been higher than necessary plowing or hoeing costs
and considerably shortened effective seasons which has lowered yields.
1.03      Varieties:  In the most reliable cropping areas of Natural
Regions IIa and IIb, both season length and distribution of rainfall within
the season, are ideally suited to the longer maturing, high-yielding hybrid
'SR 52' maize cultivar. However, when the crop cannot be planted early or
when rainfall is less reliable as in Natural Region III and parts of
Natural Region IV, the short season cultivars of the hybrids R201 and R215,
have been found to give the best yields.   There is a temptation, however,
to plant SR 52 in these areas. The extension service needs to inform
farmers of the advantages of using the shorter maturing varieties (e.g.
R201 and R215) in the low rainfall areas.
1.04      Contour Planting:  Farmers in the Communal Areas are generally
neglecting contour cultivation and planting practices. Such micro-moisture
conservation techniques are essential in low rainfall areas and can
increase the effective rainfall by as much as 30%, reducing crop damage
caused by long dry spells. The need for contour planting/moisture
conservation can be seen in the early stages of the 1982/83 crop in
Zimbabwe. This crop was planted at the onset of the early germinating
rains, which ceased in November, and the ensuing dry spell through
December, has caused crop failures which could have'been prevented with the
proper moisture conservation techniques. Extension workers need to give
farmers the necessary guidance on how to implement these essential moisture
conservation practices.
1.05      Early Planting:  Very few of the farmers in the Communal Areas
are plantirg on time,  Farmers need to be made more aware of the importance
of having their fields prepared well in advance of the first good rains and
of being ready to plant as soon as soil moisture conditions are suitable to
germinate all viable seed. An effective extension campaign in this regard
could have a dramatic effect on yields.



- 81 -
Annex I
Page 2
1.06      Pu              :   Best yields for maize have been obtained from
SR52 at 36,000 plants/ha in Natural Region II. For the short maturing
varieties, higher plant populations of up to 48,000 plants/ha have yielded
the best results. In the marginal areas where yield expectancy is lower,
the target population would probably have to be lowered to about 40,000
plants/ha, However, regardless of the maize cultivar that is used, it is
already well known that farmers should not plant less than about 36,000
plants/ha. Unfortunately, the importance of plant population on yields has
not been adequately stressed, and is a major cause of low yields in a good
season throughout the Communal Areas. More extension work on this message
could be very beneficial.
1.07      Fertilis= Packages:  Fertiliser packages exist for the regions
of more reliable rainfall, namely Natural Regions 1, II and parts of III.
Developing packages for the other areas will need to become a major focus
of future research work (para 1.13). Meanwhile, the extension service can
make recommendations based on already available knowledge of the nutrient
needs of the crops in the Communal Areas. These recommendations will need
to be modified as more results from off-station fertiliser trials become
available.
1.08      Weeding:  Weeding practices could be substantially improved by
introducing new, and better designed handtools, such as long-handled
push-hoes made of high quality tool-steel and supplied with a file to keep
them sharp. The present short-handled tillage hoe which is blunt, makes
weeding a long and tiresome task.  It has been shown that full weed control
can increase yields by as much as 40%, mainly by reducing the crop's
competition for available moisture and nutrients. --This applies especially
in Natural Regions III, IV and V, where available moisture is the main
limiting factor of crop production.
1.09      Pest Control:  The Communal Area farmers are not sure how much
insecticide spraying is necessary to protect their crops. Most of these
farmers cannot afford to purchase and store pesticides for immediate use
when needed and consequently they operate only in times of crisis.
Unfortunately, this usually means purchasing insecticides too late to be
effective, or spraying their crops at the wrong time and killing the
essential predators. Extension workers should know how to monitor (scout)
crops to best determine pest problems, when to control them and what
controls to use. These scouting techniques need to be passed on to the
farmers so that they can, if necessary, purchase insecticides early enough
to be effective.
1.10      Inter-croppin g: A form of mixed-cropping used to be practiced by
the Communal Area farmers. This practice has definite advantages and needs
to reintroduced but in a slightly more systematic manner. By using food
crops with different rates of maturity, the farmer can spread out the time
for planting and harvesting and thereby expand the total area he and his
family can handle. Harvesting crops at different times throughout the year
also improves the farmer's bargaining position and minimizes the need to
borrow. The inter-cropping techniques are known and it is only a matter of
encouraging farmers to try such practices as planting maize with beans and
cassava or groundnuts.



- 82 -
Annex 1
Page 3
1.11      In summary, with the adoption of the above simple, but often
neglected,techniques, it is conservatively estimated that communal farmers
could increase their overall yields by about 50% in NR III, 30% in NR IV
and 10% in NR V.
B. Technologies Requiring Modification for Adoption in the Communal Areas
1.12      New Varieties:  The present plant breeding program has developed
some promising new crop cultivars that are early maturing and may be ideal
for introduction in the drier natural regions. Such cultivars need to be
tested in these regions. The key to development in Natural Regions III, IV
and V will be the breeding and selection of short season, high yielding
and, hopefully, drought-resistant cultivars of all likely cash and food
crops.
1.13      Fertiliser Package:  Once the farmers begin practicing contour
plowing and planting, fertilisers can be more effectively used, as they
will remain at the base of the plant and not be lost as 'run-off' during
rainfalls. The present fertiliser packages are recommended mainly for the
higher yielding crops of the commercial farmers. These packages are
expensive and need to be modified to meet the agronomic and budget
constraints of the Communal Area farmers. Macro-nutrient interaction
trials will need to be conducted on the major soil types of the Communal
Areas within the natural region boundaries. These trials would mainly
determine whether potash or, in some areas and for some crops, phosphate
are needed (potash is an expensive imported component of the compound
fertilisers being used by the large scale commercial sector). Once the
macro-nutrient interaction of the major soil type has been determined, rate
of application trials would need to be conducted to determine what levels
of each nutrient (NPK) are needed and what the farmer should apply to
obtain optimal yields, that are constrained by realistic farm budgets.
1.14      Pest Control:  The expensive pest control packages that are being
used by the large-scale commercial farmers for cotton, tobacco, etc., need
to be modified to accommodate the budgets of the Communal Area farmers.
1.15      The Project would support research along all of the above lines.
C. Completely New Technologies for the Communal Areas
1.16      At the same time that existing technologies are being extended
and others modified, completely new technologies will need to be developed
to meet the unique requirements of the Communal Areas.
1.17      New Crops:  Cassava cultivars, especially 'sweet-cassava' for
animal fodder as well as for human consumption (particularly the leaves)
could be developed at Makaholi, Matopos and the research stations in the
Sabi Valley, where it could be grown under irrigation as a useful rotation,
to prevent pest and disease build up in the major mono crop. The surplus
production, especially from the irrigated areas could be pelleted, chipped
and dried for cattle feed in the upper regions, or exported; it could also
be converted into starch or alcohol for industry.



- 83 -
Annex 1
Page 4
1.18      The introduction and multiplication of tap-rooted fodder and
forage legumes could also be a very lucrative cash crop for those farmers
without cattle. These crops, such as Macroptylium atropurpureum cv
Siratro, have wide genetic variability and, after a period of natural
selection in any given climatic zone, a new cultivar evolves which is fully
adapted to that zo_ a. Siratro, a cultivar developed by Hutton in
Australia, is already selling for Z$ 5/kg in Zimbabwe. This seed can only
be harvested by hand and buyers, world wide, cannot get enough. One
hectare of Siratro can produce up to 500 kg of seed in one year, giving a
possible return of Z$ 2,500/ha.
1.19      Discussions with communal farmers have indicated that they would
prefer to eat millet and sorghum if they had some way of dehulling them.
The introduction of a new mechanical flour milling system that includes a
'dehuller' could make these crops substantially more attractive to farmers,
and vastly increase the cropping potential of the rainfed areas especially
NR's IV and V.
1.20      Other possibilities for introducing new crops in the Communal
Areas include: oriental tobacco, olives, pistachio nuts, gum arabic,
jojoba, guayule, buffalo gourds, sesame and castor beans. Trials for all
these crops would be needed.
1.21      Small Livestock.  Small livestock, especially poultry, but also
goats for meat and milk, guinea pigs, rabbits, guinea fowl, and pigeons
might also be introduced in new areas. Research would be needed.
1.22      Fish Farming.  Research in this area, using the fern Azolla,
which covers the surface of the pond, cutting down evaporation and
supplying a vast source of nitrogen for the fish, might also yield very
useful results.



Annex 2
-84-                        Page 1
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRITEX: Technical Service Branches
1. Animal Production
2.01      This Branch is responsible for advising on all aspects of animal
production (including fisheries) and herd management. It also administers
a full vaccination program for the commercial farmers, and, through the
extension service, for the Communal Area farmers as well. Being mainly
concerned so far with animal production on a large scale, its efforts have
focused primarily on the commercial herds. In disease prevention, this
Branch has been very successful, covering both the Commercial and Communal
Areas.
2. Crop Production
2.02      The Crop Production Branch is responsible for advising on the
production of all cash and food crops. It has specialists covering every
crop grown in the country and, until recently, focused its attention almost
solely on the commercial farmers. It is beginning to pay more attention to
the Communal Areas, where its services are badly needed. While many of
this Branch's vacancies are in key positions, fortunately, for the
headquarter positions at least, there are back-up staff. The critical
field vacancies include two agronomy extension specialists (one in
Matabeleland and the other in Mashonaland Central), one horticultural
extension specialist for Mashonaland East and one Senior Tobacco Extension
Specialist for Mashonaland West.
3. Engineering
2.03      This Branch is responsible for advising on the selection of farm
equipment and for laying out contour guidelines for soil and moisture
conservation works. At present, this Branch is mainly engaged in testing
the different types of agricultural equipment being brought into the
country (primarily for the commercial farmers), a practice that began
during UDI when the sources of imports were limited, but probably is no
longer needed. A small amount of work is also done on equipment design
adapted to smallholder farms. Due to lack of specialist staff, no work is
currently being carried out on soil and moisture conservation which could
be of considerable benefit to Communal Area farmers. The key vacancies
include the top post (Chief Engineer), the Mechanical Engineer and all
three conservation engineers.
4. Irrigation
2.04      The Irrigation Branch is responsible for advising on the
construction and management of irrigation works and on the associated farm
management practices. The only critical vacancy at present is the
Assistant Irrigation Officer's post, located at headquarters. The



- 85 -
Annex 2
Page 2
principal recipients of the services from this Branch are the small-scale
commercial farmer/irrigators.
5. Veld and Pasture
2.05      This Branch has the responsibility of advising on veld pastures
for the grazing of livestock. At present, work by the existing small staff
of 4 is concentrated on implementing pasture improvement trials at Makaholi
and Matopos Research Stations. There has been no recent extension work as
such, although previously DEVAG did a considerable amount of work with veld
management schemes. The main veld and pastures problem in the Communal
Areas is the management of these lands on which at present there is
communal grazing.
6. Planning
2.06      This Branch advises on the physical layout for establishing
new, or expanding existing, farms. Its work entails such things as soil
and erosion surveys, dam site and road alignment selections, as well as
recommendations on crop rotations and stocking densities. In the past,
this work was done mainly for the commercial farmers. At present, this
Branch is engaged almost exclusively in the planning of new farms for the
resettlement areas (para 1.20). Despite about 25 vacancies, this branch
appears to be able to cope with the present resettlement workload, but this
is probably affecting other important work in the Communal Areas.
7. Training
2.07      In-service training of all extension staff, from extension
workers to senior officers, is the responsibility of the Training Branch.
The Branch comprises 41 professional and technical posts in Harare and 17
at Dombashawa Training Institute and provincial headquarters. Fourteen of
the Harare posts and eight of the provincial posts are now vacant which has
substantially diminished the Branch's effectiveness. The Training Branch
includes a Media Production Unit which operates mobile information vans in
seven of the provinces, and produces material for one television and two
agricultural programs per week. The Unit has a substantial video
production capability and stock of training modules deriving from a crash
program in 1979 and 1980 to train refugees and settlers. The services of
the Unit are available to other Departments of MOA. In addition, there is
a small socio-economic studies unit within the Training Branch, which
todate has been solely engaged in monitoring the Department's only
experiment on extension techniques (Wedza). The Training Branch perceives
the need to reorient its program to better serve the needs of extension
workers who work in the Communal Areas but, for this purpose, it will
clearly require assistance.



Annex 3
Page 1
-86 -
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
R and SS: Research Divisions
A.  Crop Research Division
3.01      The Cotton Research Institute at Kadoma is responsible for all
aspects of cotton research in the country. It has off-station trials in
both the high and low velds.  As cotton is the main cash crop presently
grown in the Communal Areas, the activities of this institute are of direct
relevance to the Communal Areas.
3.02      The Horticulture and Coffee Research Institute carries out its
work at three Research Stations: the Coffee Research Station at Chibinga;
the Horticultural Research Center at Grasslands Research Station; and the
Rhodes Inyanga Experiment Station for deciduous fruit and other
horticultural crops grown in the highveld. These stations mainly serve the
commercial coffee growers, orchardists and vegetable growers of the high
velds.
3.03      The Crop Breeding Institute is involved in the breeding of maize,
sorghum, pearl millet, wheat, barley, soyabeans, groundnuts and oilseeds,
as well as the development of new plant material and the multiplication of
seed. The Institute carries out its work at three main centers: the
Agricultural Research Center in Harare, the Gwebi Variety Testing Center
and the Rattray-Arnold Research Farm. Other small testing sites are
scattered throughout the country.
3.04      The Agronomy Institute is engaged in research on field crops in
the high and mid velds, weed control and on the use of herbicides. It is
located at the Agricultural Research Center in Harare and has weed
research, crop ecology and crop production teams at the Grasslands, Matopos
and Makoholi Research Stations and at the Panmure Experiment Station.
3.05      The Lowveld Research Stations, which include Sabi Valley,
Chiredzi and Chisumbanje, carry out the research for crops grown in the low
veld mainly with irrigation. Therefore, the primary beneficiaries have
been the commercial irrigation farmers. Some research is beginning to be
directed at rainfed crops which would benefit the Communal Area farmers.
These stations are also well situated for the breeding of nucleus new
varieties of legume fodder and forage plants, which are needed to develop
the low veld grazing pastures in the Communal Areas. However, all of the
stations were seriously damaged during the war; Sabi Research Station was
completely closed.
B. Livestock and Pastures Division
3.06      Matopos Research Station, near Bulawayo, is engaged in research
on cattle breeding and ranching in medium rainfall areas.
3.07      Grasslands Research Station in Marandellas, is engaged in
research on the introduction of legumes and on sheep and beef production
systems.



-87 -                           Annex 3
Page 2
3.08      Henderson Research Station, near Harare, is engaged in fairly
sophisticated research involving the introduction and screening of
grasses,nutrition for ruminant animals and embryo transplants. This
research is aimed almost exclusively at the commercial farming sub-sector.
3.09      Makaholi Experiment Station, near Masvingo, is currently
directing its efforts towards the improvement of Mashona cattle.
3.10      The Dairy Services Branch administers the country's various dairy
acts and regulations including the enforcement of hygenic and product
quality standards, the regulation of dairy farms and product factories and
the grading of dairy products (cheese and butter).
3.11      The Meat Grading Services Branch is responsible for the grading
of cattle, sheep and pig cacaususes at all slaughter houses and the grading
of live cattle at communal area cattle sales.
C. Research Services Division
3.12      The Chemistry and Soil Institute, which is located at the
Agricultural Research Center in Harare, is responsible for the chemical
analysis of soil, plants, irrigation water, agricultural effluents,
fertilizers and farm seeds. To date, this work has mainly benefited the
commercial farmers, both large and small. Recently, the Institute has
begun to undertake soil analysis for the resettlement areas. Due mostly to
the lack of transport, operations are mainly restricted to the Research
Center rather than maintaining a full soil survey program in the field.
3.13      The Plant Protection Institute, which is also located at the
Agricultural Research Center in Harare, is responsible for research on
pests and diseases. It also provides a regulatory (plant quarantine)
service. This Institute has mainly concentrated on crops grown in the
commercial areas but is now eager to shift its emphasis to the Communal
Areas.
3.14      The Agricultural Engineering Institute, which is located in
Harare, is responsible for research on tillage and farm mechanization. At
present it is engaged in: (i) experiments on soil loss and run-off and low
cost grain drying methods; (ii) the designs and testing of new farm
machinery and implements; and (iii) studies involving vegetable oils as
alternatives, or additives, to diesel fuel.
3.15      The Biometrics Bureau, located at the Agriculture Research Center
in Harare, is responsible for the analysis of all data produced in the
research organization. In June 1980, the computer system was upgraded; the
memory capacity was doubled and some terminals were added. This Bureau
has, for sometime, experienced a shortage of qualified staff, a constraint
which ODA has, to some extent, helped to overcome through technical
assistance.
3.16      The Seed Services Section is responsible for implementing the
seed certification scheme including the necessary seed crop inspection and
testing. It is also responsible for administering the Seeds Act, issuing
international seed certificates and protecting the rights of plant breeders
under the Plant Breeders' Rights Act.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
ZIMBABWE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Documents in Project File
A. Background Reports and Papers
1. Preparation Report FAO/ISP, March 24, 1982, National Agricultural
Extension Project.
2. Report of the General Project Identification Mission FAO/ISP, June 15,
1982.
3. Estimates of Expenditures For the Year Ending June 30, 1983, Presented
to Parliament of Zimbabwe 1982.
4. Report on the Results of a Pilot Study for Monitoring and Evaluating
the Farm Performance of Resettlement Small Scale Farm Units [Model A]
1981/82 Season Part 1., Ministry of Agriculture, November 1982.
5. A System of the Classification of Soil Erosion in the SARCCUS Region,
SARCCUS Sub-Committee for Land-Use Planning and Erosion, August 1978.
6. Soil Loss Estimation - H.A. Ellwell Salisbury, August 1978.
7. Interim Report on the Influence of Tillage on the Credibility of a Clay
Soil., H.A. Ellwell, Borrowdale.
B. Working Papers
1. In-Service Training
2. Economic Analysis
3. Agricultural Sector Study



4



I



4



I



_______________                                                    T-I- L8- be,    ;;>  BRD                                                                                                                  17003
28~~~~~  ~ ~ ~   ~ ~      ~           ~~~~~/7o~~~~~-   '-~~~~~~                 7  5               EA~~~~~~~RLJARY 1983
Z   M/\BA  B  WA'E                                                                 o'p U09O                                                                     "
COMMUNAL AREAS AND NATURAL REGIONS                                                                  L                                             .v1  __
-16o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16--t+ ')  b
NATURAL REGIONS               -      M,o- Ro:ds
Ii   1Spec nI,ond ond DlVR'SIIIe d   --n-Rn[WY Ion,  -o.n
F     .nn ng  R gn          _
[;ll    I Inons n Fonno ng Rogioc         U les Mo- (gee .T:-\o n
!1800r ny pen-n-nJ/nnncIsra  -bOMlrCle.TFsf                                                   }        +    
CI noen-ov Enolmn,nnoeg,on        --.-Inten,ntonn-l oundonnes Kr(<*<,' n'-.,
ElI    I8 no ny oennodn/eeoon) ,V,                                                    n-n  .,,-
ElSoon, ,nnensavo Fonnning Reg                                                      ('n )u::2ne.I:  
Ib50-bOOm-  o nIl Iy.            /?                              S       F-O
Son  n     Foo  - ogRn
450 6505on  onI
EId   Ennoensv EmfagRon no Be n-n                           \~n    \   i{R/' (  ;<8
COMMUJNAL AREAS
9.fCSe,   3 ,,<.                                   t   W\i ,''-   aX    ; '<4S,,g,:=1V-                                             h
NAMI~BA            -                                                                                                                                                      HA/ R\
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 
yrr  AFR CA   I  w*__~~~2'             AnhhnaaoaydlYrlYsoDPirceen  Fluchudae                                  UTH           )    AFI    
A Mos B  A'.                                                                                                                          O32
LAMIB       A          -,
U          50          100        1.500
(5~~~~~~~~~05
nnennoeennnenon-o'o n nnnncn,,nn,on- cn  nnyanaeneAe-onnnBnbndge
SOUS                                                                                                                                                             T. ceoOrnnonnoennUnbnnnenc-nnneonn
AFR CA~~~~~~~~~~o- cononnnn enI-0n   nnncnnnonn -
AER (A  n-ann ooncnnfme Ao4UOOOCO,n0,n-hneoneeo,-olreneone Cnnnnne0000enn,nAeonncI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ ~~32



I



i ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             'S
1s ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ( ,9   ), Aw114"
;~              Q~'                       -  I             ar-iy ~> +S<  
3" 0                      ;-f" C
r ~~~~~~~~~> .C)  _    /    NJ;@Xa    
2 m  %<  rC eiJ-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ < \ r O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_::n~2"           3C7   



