Document of                      r
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2922-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
December 3, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been officially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
consequently its value floats relative to other currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
A.
US$1.00             Kyat (K) 6.6
K 1.00         -    US$0.15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                            Metric Units
1 mile (mi)                        =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                            0.405 hectare (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton) (2240 lb)   =   1016 kilograms (kg)
Burmese Units                English/US Units                  Metric Units
1 vis (vi)            -        3.60 lb                  5        1.633 kg
1 pyi                           3.00 pints (dry)                 1.65  1
1 basket (16 pyi)   =          3.00 pecks               =       26.4   1
1 basket rice         =        75.0 lb (.0335 ton)    -         34.0 kg
X basket paddy        =       46.0 lb (.0205 ton)    -          20.9 kg
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
GLOSSARY
Godown    -   Warehouse
Paddy      -   Unhulled rice



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC    -   Agriculture Corporation
AFPTC -   Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
BRC   -   Burma Railways Corporation
BSPP  -   Burmese Socialist Program Party
CC    -   Construction Corporation, Ministry of Construction
GOB   -   Government of the Socialist Republic of the
Union of Burma
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
IWTC  -   Inland Water Transport Corporation
M     -   Million
MAF   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
OECF  -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PPF   -   Planning, Project and Finance Department, AFPTC
PAPRD -   Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department
PAS   -   Procurement and Sales Department, AFPTC
PCC   -   Project Coordination Committee
PIU   -   Project Implementation Unit, AFPTC
RTC   -   Road Transport Corporation
SEE   -   State Economic Enterprise
SLRD  -   Settlement and Land Records Department
SPCU  -   Storage Project Construction Unit
TD    -   Transport and Handling Department
TPH   -   Tons of white rice milled per hour
UGCF  -   Union Government Consolidate Fund
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiary:         The Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC)
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 17.9 million (US$23.0 million
equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend US$23.0 million (the entire
proceeds of the proposed IDA credit) to the ,AFPTC at 9%
per annum for 20 years, including 3-1/2 years' grace,
with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would construct new pernanent storage
capacity of 100,000 tons, rehabilitate 500 AFPTC-owned
stores, 120 small wooden jetties and 60 railway rice
wagons, develop and implement a drying pilot project, and
provide technical assistance and staff training. The
major direct benefit would be the net reduction of paddy
storage losses valued at about US$6.3 million annually
which would result in additional net foreign exchange
earnings of about US$7 million per annum. The project
would provide employment of about 180 man-years of skilled
labor and 600 man-years of semi-skilled labor. At full
development, the project would offer permanent job oppor-
tunities to 250 skilled workers. The main project risk
would be that the construction of new stores might be
slower than predicted. The project, however, is well
within the implementation capacity of the agencies con-
cerned.



Estimated Cost:                                            US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
Major Categories
New Storage Construction             17,440    6,757   24,197
Storage and Jetty Rehabilitation        921       358    1,280
Grading and Storage Management            14       59        73
Drying Pilot Project                      30       58        88
Pest Control                               4       36        40
Transport                               357       269       626
Training                                   5      174       179
Technical Assistance                     -        300       300
Monitoring and Evaluation                 36         5       41
Total Base Cost                 18,806    8,017   26,824
Contingencies
Physical                              2,802    1,104    3,906
Price                                 5,869    2,493    8,362
Subtotal                         8,671    3,597   12,268
Total Project Cost              27,477   11,614   39,092
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes)              (18,735) (11,614) (30,350)
Financing Plan:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                   11.4      11.6      23.0
Government of Burma/AFPTC             16.1        -       16.1
Total                            27.5      11.6     39.1
Estimated                                              US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:      IDA FY                    1981   1982   1983   1984   1984
Annual                     0.1    5.7    7.8    8.2    1.2
Cumulative                  -      5.8   13.6   21.8   23.0
Rate of Return:       29%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2395b-BA, dated November 26, 1980.
Map:                  IBRD No. 14131 Ri



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) 17.9 million (US$23 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a grain storage project. The proceeds of the credit
would be relent to the Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation for
a term of 20 years, including a three and one-half year grace period, at an
interest rate of 9% per annum with the Government bearing the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Domestic and External
Resource Prospects" (Report No. 3098-BA dated October 10, 1980) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on October 17, 1980. Country data are shown
in Annex I.
3.        The present leadership under President Ne Win has ruled the country
since 1962, first under the Revolutionary Council and more recently under a
new Constitution. The Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum
in December 1973, and under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was
created with supreme executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The
Burma Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized
political party. The Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962
document entitled The Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combirtation of
traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives
are set out in the Twenty-Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972
and is being implemented through a succession of Four-Year Plans.
4.        During the 1960s and early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political objectives. These
included increased government ownership of economic assets, greater equality
in the distribution of income, and Burmanization of important professional and
managerial jobs. A fundamental change in the economic and social structure
resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of holdings
among farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of major economic
activities in trade and industry. At the same time, access of the population
to social services was expanded, particularly with respect to education and
health facilities. Insurgency was and is still a problem, however, partic-
ularly in the hills and border areas, although there is probably greater
territorial control by the Government now than at any time since Independence
in 1948.



- 2 -
5.        Burma's economic performance over this period, however, reflects
the severe disruption in ownership, management, and distribution systems which
accompanied the social restructuring. Public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment
and production which resulted; and economic growth suffered, scarcely matching
populatio.a growth. Throughout the period, investment levels were low, with
gross capital formation averaging only 10-11% of GNP. Furthermore, investment
was excessively skewed toward nationalized industry, while such key, directly-
productive sectors as agriculture, forestry, and mining did not receive due
attention.
6.        The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated the problem.
They were aimed at keeping down the cost of living for the masses, and in
many instances, State Economic Enterprises were not allowed full recovery of
their costs, leading to a decline in their financial surpluses and hence in
domestic savings. Furthermore, low agricultural producer prices discouraged
the production of paddy and other crops and led to dwindling export earnings.
Low export earnings, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import
essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing
underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely
limiting expansion. An increasing share of production was either traded in
the domestic unofficial market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of
official prices. In both cases, the tax base was undermined and income was
siphoned off by segments of the private sector with little opportunity or
inclination to invest these resources productively. The distortions arising
from this system were compounded by low, official interest rates and an
overvalued exchange rate.
7.        In recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government
initiated a period of reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan.
The main objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within the con-
text of a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency
by converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society,
to eliminate unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The GOB's strat-
egy for achieving these goals is constantly evolving, with innovations pro-
posed as new constraints are encountered. The main elements of this strategy,
however, appear to be: (a) to give higher priority initially to the directly
productive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to
make greater use of aid, trade, and--to a lesser extent--technical assistance;
(c) to follow a price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction,
through increased efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture;
and (d) to begin to introduce work incentives and commercial principles,
especially in the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).
8.        Pricing policy still reflects the desire to provide basic consumer
goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, but it has begun to recognize the role
of prices in creating production incentives and financial viability. Procure-
ment prices of a variety of agricultural products were raised to improve the
economic position of the farmer, while others were decontrolled. The procure-
ment price for paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974. In 1977/78 the
procurement price for high quality paddy was increased by about 4-7%; in 1980



- 3 -
this price was further raised by about 2-12%. In industry, the Government
obtained new costing schedules in 1976 and increased the ex-factory prices
of SEEs, although the adjustments remain incomplete. These new costing
schedules, in principle, allow profit margins at the producing level for the
first time for a great majority of SEES. The official exchange rate of the
kyat was devalued by 25% relative to the US dollar in January 1975 and a
further 9% relative to the SDR in 1977, thus partially compensating for the
overvaluation. The interest rate on savings deposits was raised from 3.5%
to 6% in April 1975 and raised again to 8% in November 1977. Interest
charged to farmers on agricultural loans has been raised to 12%.
9.        In addition to these pricing reforms, the Government introduced
reforms in investment allocation, management of SEEs, and taxation. The
percentage of public investment which was allocated to agriculture (including
livestock, fishing, and forestry) and mining in the Second Four-Year Plan
(1974/75 to 1977/78) incv-eased to 33%, compared to 16% during the previous
decade. The share of industrial investment which was allocated to consumer
goods and light industries, however, was very small. In 1975, a comprehen-
sive set of guidelines was introduced to enable SEEs to operate on a commer-
cial basis and to improve distribution of their production. The guidelines
introduce greater autonomy in the management of SEEs, set standaLrds by which
their operational performance will be measured, introduce financial and
costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide for a bornus scheme
under which management and the work force may be rewarded for successful
performance. Although problems remain, particularly in regard to incentives
for operational and investment efficiency, production trends and financial
performance have greatly improved. In April 1976, a major tax reform was
enacted. It included the introduction of a Commodities and Services Tax and
a Profits Tax and resulted in increasing Union Government revenue from 9%
of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1977/78. This tax reform represented a major
turnaround in public finance and was perhaps the most important achievement
of the Government in recent years.
10.       In part as a result of these measures and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second Four-
Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%, com-
pared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation increased
by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a 'percent of GDP
also increased. The improved budgetary position of the Government lessened
its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn, contributed to a reduc-
tion in th.. rate of inflation. The consumer price index declined slightly
during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%, during 1978.
The average annual growth in exports was 3-4% in real terms; and increased
external borrowing permitted an annual average real growth in imports of 16%.
11.       More recently, during the first two years of the Third Four-Year
Plan (1978/79 to 1981/82), GDP, investment, and export growth have shown
further improvement, but the domestic savings effort may have to be intensi-
fied as budgetary surpluses of both SEEs and Central Government are stagnating.
In fact, despite the generally favorable developments, much remains to be done
to put the economy firmly on the path to sustained and more rapid growth. The



- 4 -
problems confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential
farm inputs, inadequate transportation facilities and shortages of farm power
and basic farm services, in particular agricultural credit and extension
services. They also include the need for further production incentives
through increased agricultural producer prices and through a greater flow of
consumer goods to the rural areas. In industry, further adjustments of SEE
product prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately,
to stimulate productivity growth, and to generate surpluses for reinvestment.
In external trade, the role and impact of the exchange rate needs to be kept
under continuing review, given the importance of greater export growth for
the development of the domestic economy. Greater export promotion efforts
for minor products must also be made.
12.       The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration, and imple-
mentation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid in
its manner of operation and appears to focus excessively on the formulation
of targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and administrative apparatus,
decentralization of decision-making, and strengthening of the capability of
Government entities to prepare and implement projects are urgently needed.
13.       The Government recognizes the general nature of the problems and
issues to which attention must urgently be addressed. If appropriate actions
are taken, Burma is capable of a significant acceleration in economic growth.
In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the Private Enterprise"
is welcomed. The Rules and Regulations of this law have been issued, and
registration of enterprises is proceeding. It is hoped that by legitimizing
private sector activity and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the
development of the public, cooperative, and private sectors, some reintegra-
tion of the economy will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial
impact upon economic performance.
14.       The Government's planned GDP growth for the Third Four-Year Plan is
6.6%, an ambitious target and one which will require external assistance for
projects contributing towards:
-    intensified and more efficient use of existing cultivated
areas and reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture
(research and extension services, supply of essential
inputs, especially high-yielding varieties of planting
materials, fertilizer and light agricultural machinery;
improvement of irrigation facilities, in particular, tube-
well development; and integrated agricultural development);
-    better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction, processing, and transport
facilities);
-    development of known mineral deposits; and



-5-
-    development of agro- and mineral-based industries which
possess clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish, and wood products, and fertilizer production).
In addition to such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate exist-
ing capacity in transportation and communications. The transport sector is
in a serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment, and main-
tenance. While project loans and technical assistance can be used to address
most of these projects, commodity financing will also be required from external
sources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spareE, and equipment
in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
15.       Burma's debt service ratio increased from 10% in the 1960s to about
20% in the mid-1970s, due primarily to a relative decline in exports with
respect to GDP rather than an increase in debt servicing. By early 1980,
Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately
US$1 billion; and the debt service burden had increased further due to
servicing of loans to the oil industry on commercial terms. Burma's exports
are increasing after a long period of decline, and the potential for a con-
tinued upward trend is good. Nevertheless, because of the rising debt service
burden and because of Burma's low income level, external assistance should be
on concessionary terms and should, in addition, finance part oif local cost
requirements which cannot, at present, be covered adequately bv domestic
savings. Local cost financing is particularly needed for the agricultural
sector where most investments have a low foreign exchange component.
16.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which these
resources will be managed and developed. The Bank continues to discuss with
the Government further improvements in economic policy which might help Burma
realize its promising potential for economic development as weLl as external
assistance requirements. Discussions on these topics are carried on jointly
with other donors and the IMF during the Burma Aid Group meetings which the
Bank has organized at the Government's request. The first meeting of the
Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have been two subse-
quent meetings, with indications of increasing donor support each year. The
fourth Burma Aid Group Meeting is scheduled for December 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.



- 6 -
18.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  At the request of
the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973, IDA has made
fifteen credits totaling US$362.3 million equivalent (net of cancellations),
three of which have been fully disbursed. About 68% of this assistance was
channeled to the agricultural sector, consisting of nine projects: irriga-
tion, rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects,
two forestry projects, and the Nyaunggyat Dam multipurpose project. About
12% of IDA's assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector
through three projects, namely inland water transport, railways, and a second
ports project. The remaining 20% of IDA's assistance has been for two proj-
ects in the telecommunications sector (15%) and one project in the mining
sector (5%). The proposed credit would be the first in FY81, bringing the
total of IDA assistance to Burma to US$385.3 million equivalent, net of
cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of October 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC has made no investments in Burma.
19.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our
ongoing projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved.
A US$4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project),
for which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline
suitable for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, trans-
port, power and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber Rehabilitation
Projects (Credit Nos. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were prepared under
the Umbrella Project. A second phase of this Umbrella Project has been agreed
with the Government and UNDP.  Furthermore, the Association plans to continue
its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation capabilities, as well as administrative and managerial
skills through in-service and overseas training.
20.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying pro-
duction for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the devel-
opment of agriculture, forestry, and mining. Where possible, priority is
being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, financing of
infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transportation and
telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many of these
are inoperable at present and have increasingly impeded economic activity in
the directly productive sectors of the economy.
21.       In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
most of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A wood industries project
and a road rehabilitation and road maintenance project are being appraised.
Other projects under preparation include fuelwood supply, fisheries, inte-
grated agriculture development, a tubewells project, and a pulp and paper
project. In addition, a power project to augment transmission networks is
also under preparation.



- 7-
22.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       The agricultural sector, including livestock, fisheries and fores-
try, accounted for 45% of GDP in 1979/80 in current prices and employed 67%
of the labor force. Agricultural products, primarily rice and teak, account
for about 85% of all exports. More than 60% of Burma's industrial output
stems from the processing of agricultural crops including paddy, cotton, jute
and sugarcane. Paddy is by far the most important crop, accounting for about
42% of the value added for agricultural crops and more than half of the sown
area. Other major crops in terms of sown area include sesamum, pulses and
groundnuts; other crops include maize, cotton, sugarcane, wheat, chillies,
jute, tobacco, onions, coconut and rubber. The agricultural sector performed
poorly over the decade prior to 1975/76; its growth rate, estimated to be 1.6%
per annum, was less than both the 2.3% growth in GDP and the 2.2% population
growth. During this decade, export volumes decreased by about two-thirds
largely due to declining rice exports. The poor performance of the agricul-
tural sector was a major cause of Burma's slow economic growth (luring this
period. Its origins can be traced to insufficient public and private invest-
ment in agriculture, to inadequate production incentives, and to shortages
of inputs including agricultural support services. There has been a consider-
able improvement in the sector's performance from 1975/76 through 1979/80
with an annual growth rate averaging about 5%, reflecting both more favorable
weather conditions and Government action to redress past problems.
24.       In re-ordering its investment priorities to give more emphasis to
agriculture and other primary producing sectors, the Government has increased
agriculture's share of State capital expenditure from 11% for the period
1963/64 through 1973/74 to about 20% during the Second Four Year Plan and to
a targeted 27% for the Third Four Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82), which calls
for agricultural output to increase by 5.8% annually. Over the past few
years, the Government has also increased procurement prices for many crops
(e.g. procurement prices for maize and pulses increased by about 100% and
122%, respectively, in December 1976; sugarcane prices increased by about
66% in September 1976) and attempted to improve input availability and agri-
cultural support services.
25.       Burma's main crop is rice which accounts for about 55% of the total
sown area and is the main export commodity. Production has grown slowly,
increasing by about 3% per annum during the last decade. Once the largest
rice exporter in the world, Burma suffered considerable devastation to embank-
ment structures during World War II and subsequently from recurrent social
disturbances. The stoppage of rice exports during the war period, changes
in land tenancy, and general lack of embankment maintenance ledL to further
deterioration and land abandonment. A special reclamation program of the
Government managed to boost sown area by 1963/64 to its pre-war level of 12.4



- 8 -
million acres, primarily through the restoration of approximately 71% of the
1.7 million abandoned acres in Lower Burma. However, due to insecurity, in-
adequate embankment maintenance, and a generally low level of commercial and
economic activity over the subsequent decade, the totally abandoned areas had
not yet been reclaimed. Over the last fifteen years, there has been no sig-
nificant increase in the total sown area nationwide as incLeases in acreage
in Upper Burma merely compensated for the losses in Lower Burma. Up to 1974,
yields were also stagnant, and annual production of paddy fluctuated around
pre-war levels of about 8 million tons. Due partly to the introduction of
High Yielding Varieties (HYVs) the 1977/78 harvest of paddy exceeded 9 mil-
lion tons. In 1979/80 paddy harvest reached a record of about 10 million
tons; the 1980/81 harvest is projected to exceed 11 million tons.
26.       About 70% of the area under paddy is concentrated in Lower Burma,
mainly in the Irrawaddy Delta. Mostly local varieties are sown. Adoption
of high-yielding varieties (HYV) has been constrained in the past not only
by inadequate water control, but also by the lack of material inputs, espe-
cially seeds, fertilizers, and by power shortages during peak demand periods.
In Upper Burma, lack of water is the major constraint to increased production
and adoption of HYV. With improved technology, yields could be increased
from the present average of about 1,500 lbs/acre to about 2,000 lbs/acre.
However, any significant yield breakthrough will depend on the widespread
production of HYV. Although the first HYV were introduced in Burma in the
mid-sixties, they are as yet only grown on about 1 million acres (8% of the
rice area). The Seed Development Project (Credit 745-BA) would increase the
area sown with HYV rice to about 3.5 million acres.
27.       The Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC) procures
about a third of national paddy production. Procurement quotas for each farmer
are based on farm size and productivity. The quota for each farmer is based
on his paddy surplus after allowing 15 baskets (0.3 tons) per head for family
consumption, 1.5 baskets (30 kilograms) per acre for seed, 2% of production
for storage and handling losses, and an allowance for payment in kind for
hired labor. Once a farmer fulfills his quota, he is free to sell surplus
paddy in the open market. Since procurement prices are lower than free market
prices, the procurement system amounts to an agriculture income tax. Procure-
ment of paddy is highly seasonal with about 90% being procured during January
to March. Since only about 30% of the paddy can be milled during this period,
about 60% of the procured paddy requires storage. Existing permanent storage
capacity (about 1.5 million tons) is inadequate both in quality and quantity.
The AFPTC relies on rented permanent godowns, requisitioned from the private
sector. These now account for over one-third of the total permanent storage
capacity used by the AFPTC and are in very poor condition. Due to a shortage
of permanent storage facilities, the AFPTC has relied on temporary sheds which
do not provide adequate protection from moisture and pests. Consequently, the
loss in value of paddy due to quality deterioration as a result of the shor-
tage of storage space is high.
28.       Rice milling, one of Burma's oldest industries, has been a mainstay
of the Burmese economy. About 25% of the private sector mills (about 60% of
milling capacity) are required by law to mill only for the AFPTC. Most of



-9-
these mills are very old and are operating beyond their economic life.  In
the past, the mills have suffered due to a severe shortage of spare parts,
but the situation has recently improved. The AFPTC is negotiating with the
People's Republic of China, the Government of Japan, and the Asian Development
Bank for assistance to the rice milling industry.
29.       Although private paddy transactions are still strictly regulated,
state controls on the sale, purchase, and transport of milled rice within
townships were abolished in May 1973, thereby legitimizing limited local free
market trading in rice. Procurement prices of paddy were increased by 150%
during the period November 1972 to July 1974. Upward adjustmenits in prices
for higher quality paddy were further made in 1977/78 (4-7%) and in 1980-81
(2-12%).
30.       Following a tenfold increase in production over the previous decade,
sugarcane and jute production declined significantly in 1975, partly in
response to the relative profitability of paddy; but by 1979/80, output had
almost reached the pre-1975 levels. Production of oilseeds and pulses, the
next most important crops after paddy, have recently increased. Adopted
in recent years as a follow-up crop to paddy, production of groundnuts has
been constrained by drought and shortage of viable seed. Pulses are grown
on dryland areas of Upper Burma and on paddyland as a follow-up crop in the
Middle Delta of Lower Burma; further boosts in production will require water
control measures and extension efforts to popularize improved varieties.
31.       Burma has considerable potential to increase its agricultural pro-
ductivity, especially paddy. In Lower Burma, the key factor for development
is the protection of paddyland from flooding (Middle Delta) and salt water
inundation (Lower Delta). Other important complementary measures to increase
productivity include: (a) increase in crop yields on presently cultivated
land through effective extension programs and improved distribution of inputs;
(b) activation of a development-oriented rural credit system, especially for
medium- and long-term credit; (c) acceleration of programs to reclaim part
of the abandoned and waste paddyland in Lower Burma; (d) improvement of post-
harvest infrastructure for storage, processing and marketing of produce; and
(e) development of groundwater resources in Central Burma and expansion of
gravity irrigation systems in Upper Burma. The IDA financed Lower Burma
Paddyland Development Project, (Credit No. 642-BA) and the Paddyland Devel-
opment II Project (Credit No. 835-BA) are designed to meet the first three
objectives. The fourth objective will be addressed through the proposed
project. The groundwater exploration scheme, financed under UNDP Umbrella
Project, is currently underway to investigate the possibilities of meeting
the last objective.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was identified during the IDA appraisal of the
Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project (IDA Credit No. 642) in September/
October 1975 and the feasibility study was financed out of that: Credit. The
project was appraised in November/December, 1978 and follow-up missions,



- 10 -
necessitated by Government requested changes in project scope, visited Burma
in July 1979 and May 1980. A report entitled "Grain Storage Project - Staff
Appraisal Report" (No. 2395b-BA) dated November 26, 1980 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
D.C., from November 17 to 20, 1980. The borrower's delegation was led by His
Excellency U Khin Maung Gyi, Minister of Trade.   Key events relating to the
project and special conditions of the credit are given in Annex III.
Project Description
33.       The objectives of the proposed project are to reduce paddy losses,
improve rice transportation, and improve rice quality by reducing paddy quality
deterioration, thus helping to lower paddy marketing costs and increase rice
export volume and price. The project will be implemented in three divisions
of Lower Burma - Irrawaddy, Rangoon and Pegu. The main project components are:
(a) construction of new paddy stores of 100,000 tons at 20 sites
to increase permanent storage capacity in the project area;
(b) rehabilitation of 500 AFPTC-owned stores with a total capacity
of about 500,000 tons, 120 small wooden jetties, and 60 rail-
way rice wagons;
(c) provision of grading and storage management equipment for
600 procurement centers and new stores;
(d) implementation of a drying pilot project in three townships
to establish feasibility of further mechanization procedures
in paddy processing;
(e) provision of pest control equipment and supplies;
(f) provision of a transshipment store for rice to facilitate
shipment by rail;
(g) provision of technical assistance, and in-service and
overseas training; and
(h) monitoring and evaluation.
Organization and Implementation
34.       The Government-owned Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
(AFPTC), the main executing agency, is responsible for procuring, storing and
processing some of the controlled agricultural produce such as paddy and
pulses. As a marketing organization, under the direction of the Ministry of
Trade, the Corporation is headed by a Managing Director (MD), who supervises
13 regional and 8 functional departments. The project components fall within
the jurisdiction of three of these functional departments: Planning, Projects
and Finance (PPF); Procurement and Sales I (Paddy/Rice) (PAS); and Transport
and Handling (TD).



- 11 -
35.       The project coordination, procurement and monitoring would be the
responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established with-
in the PPF of the AFPTC. The establishment of the PIU and the appointment
of its Project Director would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(b) of the draft DCA). The AFPTC would contract the Government-owned
Construction Corporation (CC) to construct new stores (para 52). In order to
facilitate project implementation, a Project Coordinator within CC would be
assigned the responsibility for coordinating all aspects of the civil works
within CC and between AFPTC and CC pertaining to the construction of new
storage (including the transshipment store for rice). The assignment of such
a Project Coordinator is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c)
of the draft DCA). The Project Director of the PIU and the Project Coordinator
within CC would ensure close coordination of the activities of their respec-
tive organizations.
36.       A Storage Maintenance Unit which was created within PPF in 1978
would be responsible for the maintenance of stores, constructed or rehabili-
tated under the project. The Quality Control Unit within PAS which started
operating in early 1980 would be responsible for the review of paddy grading
criteria and the monitoring of the quality of paddy in new stores. AFPTC
would staff these units with personnel whose experience is satisfactory
to IDA (Section 3.11 of the draft DCA).
37.       In order to ensure effective coordination among various agencies, a
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established, chaired by the
Deputy Minister of Trade and vice-chaired by the Managing Director of AFPTC.
The establishment of the PCC is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of the draft DCA).
38.       Storage Construction and Rehabilitation.  Paddy procurement from
the project area which accounts for 82% of national procurement is expected
to increase to about 2.6 million tons by 1982/83--an increase of approximately
290,000 tons over the 1976/77 level. This increase, along with existing
unsatisfied demand, would create an incremental demand of more than 200,000
tons capacity of permanent stores by 1982/83. Over a 36-month project imple-
mentation period ending in September 1984, the proposed project would create
new storage capacity of 100,000 tons at 20 sites, and rehabilitate another
500,000 tons of existing storage capacity. The proposed project size is
considered appropriate given construction capacity constraints and the intent
to have a follow-up project if implementation is satisfactory. New stores
would be located in townships where the 20 new rice mills (6 tons paddy/hr),
financed with the assistance of ADB and OECF, are to be constructed. The
selection of these locations was made on the basis of identifying milling
and storage deficits of 20,000 tons within a maximum distance of 20 km.
During negotiations, the 20 locations for new stores were idenl:ified. In the
event that the agreed locations were to be changed during project implemen-
tation, AFPTC would furnish IDA the proposed changes for its comments prior
to the commencement of construction (Section 3.05 of the draft DCA).
39.       Fifteen of the 20 new storage depots would be constructed of local
timber and five of imported prefabricated steel. Each depot would consist
of two rectangular buildings, adequately spaced, each with a storage capacity



- 12 -
of 2,500 tons. The mix of wooden and prefabricated steel depots represents
the best project option because of the need to suit the storage structure
to soil conditions and to provide for timeliness and flexibility in project
implementation. The construction and use of a limited number of steel struc-
tures under this project would give the Government an opportunity to gain
experience from a technology which in the future may become preferable in
the eventuality of a shortage of domestic hardwood timber. Both types of
structures would be adaptable to bulk and bag storage, as well as manual
and mechanical bulk handling.
40.        Since the new stores would be integrated with new rice mills (para
38), a higher frequency of loading and unloading operations (3-4 times annual
turnover) is expected. During peak paddy procurement season, AFPTC has
experienced difficulties in obtaining labor in sufficient volumes for the
physically demanding work of loading and unloading paddy in store. To avoid
the expected labor problems mechanical handling equipment would be installed
in each building. Precleaning equipment would likewise be installed to remove
high portions of dust, immature materials and impurities which highly impair
storability and, thus, the quality of milled rice. Each of the buildings
would further be provided with an aeration system to help control temperature
and moisture equilibrium conditions. A diesel generator (40 kw) would be
installed in each store to provide the electric power for the mechanical hand-
ling and precleaning equipment. The detailed design and technical specifi-
cations of stores and mechanical handling equipment would be prepared by
AFPTC in consultation with CC and with the technical assistance of engineer-
ing consultants to be provided under the project (para 47).
41.       To upgrade 500 AFPTC-owned stores, presently in poor condition,
the proposed project would provide approximately US$2,000 (for material and
labor) for each of these stores. AFPTC-rented stores are in poor shape but
are gradually being upgraded through an AFPTC rehabilitation program which
entails providing a one-year advance rent to owners of private stores and
assisting these owners to obtain local building materials (e.g., cement,
roofsheets, etc.). To supplement this program and to meet the need for
assisting private owners in obtaining bird screens, the project would provide
imported wire netting for about 150 private stores at an average value of
US$650 per store. In addition, 120 wooden jetties which provide access to
stores and procurement centers would be improved at a cost of about US$1,300
each.
42.       Grading, Drying and Pest Control.  Although recent adjustments in
the paddy procurement price (para 29) may be expected to encourage farmers to
deliver paddy of higher storability and quality, the present grading/price
structure does not give sufficient incentive to farmers to dry their paddy.
Thus, AFPTC would review its current paddy grading criteria and make recommen-
dations which would be furnished to IDA for its review by January 31, 1982
(Section 3.09 of the draft DCA). To reduce grading time and enhance storage
and procurement, the project would provide simple and inexpensive grading and
store management equipment to 600 procurement centers and 20 sites, respec-
tively.
43.       At the end of the dry season isolated rains cause drying problems.
In order to test the economic and social acceptability of mechanical drying



- 13 -
and its effectiveness in reducing sun checking (cracks induced by improper
drying of paddy), pilot drying plants would be provided in three townships.
The townships would be located, one each in the upper, middle and lower delta.
In each township two alternative designs of driers--a cup and cone continuous
flow drier and a bin type batch drier--would be tested.
44.        Currently, pest control activities are hampered by a lack of staff,
training, equipment and chemicals. By May 1, 1981, the AFPTC would station
in each of the 14 consolidated tonwships in the project area at least one pest
control squad, consisting of one inspector and two technicians; by June 1,
1982, an additional squad would be stationed in these townships (Section 3.07
of the draft DCA). The use of pesticides would be properly administered and,
thus, would not create any environmental problem.
45.       Transportation and Transshipment Store.  Rice movement is mainly
from Lower Burma (surplus areas) to Upper Burma (deficit areas) for local
consumption, and to the ports of Rangoon and Bassein for exports. Official
movement of rice was about 1.6 million tons in 1978, of which albout 1.0 mil-
lion was for domestic consumption. Rice is usually shipped to Upper Burma
by rail and truck. The AFPTC relies more on trucks even for long haul
(Rangoon to Mandalay and Thazi) although rail transport is more economical.
This is partly due to the lack of fast and reliable railways services for
rice transport. In order to improve railway services, 60 double bogie wagons
would be rehabilitated by the Burma Railways Corporation (BRC) using brakes
and spare parts financed under the credit. The rehabilitated wagons would be
operated at higher speed, enabling operation as a unit train. A unit train
for rice transport would be run on a set schedule between Rangoon and Thazi/
Mandalay. To facilitate unloading from the unit train, a transshipment store
(3,000 tons) at Thazi would be provided next to railway siding. The AFPTC
and BRC would enter into contractual agreement specifying, inter alia, the
terms and conditions under which the unit train would be run. Such a contract
would be signed by July 1, 1981 and a draft would be made available to the
Association for its comments six weeks prior to signing (Section 3.13 of the
draft DCA). By May 1, 1981 the responsibilities of the TD would be extended
to include operation of rice transshipment stores, fumigation of ships, coor-
dination of water and land transportation of rice, including th,e supervision
of contracts for the operation of the rice unit train, and the coordination
and implementation of the pest control program (Section 3.15 of the draft
DCA).
46.       Training and Technical Assistance.  Overseas training would be
provided for about 40 AFPTC staff, for a total of 70 man-months, and approxi-
mately 1,280 participants would be trained through 80 local in--service courses
totalling about 310 man-months. By May 1, 1981 for FY81/82, and thereafter
not later than April 1 of each subsequent fiscal year, the AFPTC would furnish
IDA a plan for overseas training (Section 3.08(a) of the draft DCA). Person-
nel trained overseas in paddy storage and handling techniques would be expected
to work on the proposed project and provide in-service training to other field
staff of AFPTC (Section 3.08(b) of the draft DCA).



- 14 -
47.       The project would provide 30 man-months of technical assistance
in the form of two engineering specialists in the areas of structural and
mechanical engineering. These engineering consultants who would be employed
by AFPTC by July 1, 1981 (Section 3.16 of the draft DCA) would assist AFPTC
and coordinate with CC on matters relating to preparation of detailed design
and specitications, preparation of tender documents and bid evaluations and
supervision of the construction of the prefabricated steel stores, as well
as, the installation and testing of mechanical equipment in storage depots.
Technical assistance is estimated to cost about US$10,000 per man-month,
including travel, subsistence and allowances.
48.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Central Statistical Office would
provide technical assistance to AFPTC with regard to the monitoring and
evaluation of the new storage component. The Project Appraisal and Progress
Reporting Department (PAPRD) would assist AFPTC in preparing a draft Project
Completion Report. Based on information obtained from monitoring and evalua-
tion, necessary design and procedural changes would be made during project
implementation.
Cost, Financing and Relending
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$39.1 million of which
about US$11.6 million is foreign exchange. The local cost component of US$27.5
million includes about US$8.7 million for taxes and duties. The proposed IDA
credit of US$23.0 million would finance the entire foreign exchange component
(US$11.6 million) and about US$11.4 million of local costs. Thus the proposed
credit would finance about 75% (including about 60% of local costs) of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. The total proceeds of the credit would
be relent to AFPTC at an interest rate of 9% per annum, repayable over 20
years, including three and one-half years of grace with the Government bearing
the foreign exchange risk. The execution and delivery of the relending
agreement (Subsidiary Loan Agreement) between the Government and the AFPTC
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft
DCA). The balance of local costs (US$16.1 million) would be financed by AFPTC
from its internal cash generation.
50.       The financial position of the AFPTC is sound.  The AFPTC debt/equity
ratio in 1977/78 is estimated at 25% (0.25/1.0) and is projected to decline
to about 14% (0.14/1.0) by 1983/84. This indicates that the AFPTC has a high
capacity to absorb additional long-term debt.
Procurement
51.       The AFPTC would be responsible for all procurement.  The prefabri-
cated storage shells and equipment for the new storage component (such as
aeration equipment, mechanical handling and precleaning equipment and diesel
generators), the supplies for railway wagon rehabilitation and the steel
structure for the transshipment store valued at US$5.9 million (net of con-
tingencies, taxes and duties) would be procured through international compe-
titive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. The



- 15 -
engineering consultants (US$0.3 million) would be internationally recruited
and the overseas training (US$0.2 million) would be arranged on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 c.i.f. each and not exceeding the equivalent of US$300,000 in the
aggregate, which are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased through normal
Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
52.       The foundation construction, the erection of timber storage struc-
tures, the assembly of prefabricated structures and the construction of the
transshipment store for rice costing about US$14.0 million would be labor
intensive and scattered at about 20 sites in the project area, and therefore
would not be suitable or attractive to international contractors. Since there
is no private construction industry in Burma, the CC would carry out this work
under contract to the AFPTC. The CC has sufficient construction experience.
However, in order to ensure that it carries out such volume of work according
to the project implementation schedule, AFPTC would enter into contractual
agreements with CC, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.14 of the draft DCA). Individual contracts would cover one or more stores
depending on location, type and time schedule for construction. AFPTC would
furnish IDA for its review and comments draft contracts no later than six
weeks prior to the date of signing of such contracts. Following normal
Government procedures all imported materials required for the construction of
stores would be procured by AFPTC and supplied to CC. Meanwhile, the rehabi-
litation of stores and jetties and the installation of equipment: in new stores
would be carried out by force account by AFPTC.
Disbursement
53.       Disbursement from the proposed IDA credit would be made against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, including
prefabricated storage shells for new construction (US$10.56 M); (b) 55% of
local expenditures for civil works or for locally procured items (US$11.77 M);
and (c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training, monitoring
and evaluation (US$0.67 M). Applications for withdrawals from the credit
would be fully documented. AFPTC would provide full documentation for expen-
ditures related to civil works carried out by force account.   Claims under
civil works would be substantiated by a copy of the work completion certifi-
cate prepared by CC and approved by the AFPTC.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The project represents an important first step in increasing urgently
needed permanent storage capacity for paddy in Lower Burma. Its main benefits
are based on a reduction in storage losses achieved by (a) providing new
permanent storage (100,000 tons); (b) rehabilitating part of the existing per-
manent storage (500,000 tons); and (c) strengthening the existing pest control
service. These measures would result in annual net savings of about US$6.3
million by 1985. The rehabilitation of railway wagons and the construction
of a transshipment store would make it possible to operate a regular rice unit
train from Rangoon to Upper Burma.  This would lead to net transport cost
savings of about US$0.7 million per year in 1982-86 when further rehabilitation



- 16 -
measures would become necessary. During the construction period, the project
would provide employment totalling about 180 man-years of skilled labor and
600 man-years of semi-skilled labor. At full development, the project would
offer permanent job opportunities to about 250 skilled storage personnel.
55.       From 1985 onwards, increased rice exports resulting from a reduction
in storage losses would give Burma additional net foreign exchange earnings
of about US$7 million per annum. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
project as a whole is estimated at about 29%. The ERR for the new storage
component (90% of total cost) is estimated at about 28%; ERRs for storage
rehabilitation (3.7% of total cost) and for rice wagon rehabilitation and con-
struction of a transshipment store (2.3% of total cost) are estimated to be
about 50% each. The project would remain viable even if benefits lagged by
three full years (i.e. ERR for new storage component would be reduced only to
about 17%).
56.       The main project risk is that the construction of new stores might
be slower than predicted. It is for this reason that a Project Implementation
Unit would be established (para 35) and a Project Coordinator would be assigned
within CC (para 35).   In addition, the AFPTC would enter into contractual
agreements with CC (para 52) in order to implement construction of new stores
according to schedule.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Repub-
lic of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the
appointment of its Project Director;
(b) assignment of a Project Coordinator within CC;
(c) establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC);
and
(d) execution and delivery of the relending agreement (Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement) between the Government and AFPTC.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 3, 1980



- 18 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TAZLE 3A
SuiM - SOCIAL INDICATOIS DATA SRZLT
BURKA                      IRDZICe CROUPS IWcIGaTED AVs S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM. P                                                       PST RECENT CSTIHAT
TOTAL            676.6
AGQICILTUIAL      103.6                                 OST  IXT           "W42. ;MCOKE           MIDDLE ISCaI
1960 A      1970 A  CSTIA-te A    ASIA A PACIFIC            ASIA I PACIFIC
ClP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0         m0.o      150.0             197.9                  894.8
eNERGY CONSUMPTION FER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       55.0        58.0       64.0              166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.  ID-MAR (MILLIONS)       21.8         27.0      32.2
URAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 19.3           22.8      26.2               20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        51.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PR SQ. KM.                         32.0        40.0       48.0              193.2                  376.1
Pn SQ. DI. ACRICULTURAL LAND    204.0         253.0      311.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          38.4        40.0       41.0               42.0                   40.4
15-64 YES.                          59.0        57.0       55.3               55.0                  56.2
65 YES. AND ASOVE                    2.6         3.0        3.7                3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTK MATE (PERCENT)
TtTAL                               1.9          2.2       2.2                2.2                    2.4
UBAN                                5.7          3.9       4.0                3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.0         40.0      39.0               37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE  THOUSAND)      22.0         17.0      14.0               14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.7       2.7                2.6                    1.9
=AMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL -(THOUSANDS)       ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..               15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0       101.0       97.0             101.4                  116.9
PEN CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQEIREHENTS)                    92.0        lQ4.O     106.0               92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        57.0       59.0               49.8                  60.3
OF WUlCH ANIMAL AND PULSe        10.0        12.0       12.0               12.0                  18.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.0         18.0      15.0               17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0          49.0      53.0               50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAD)                               .5 ..                  ..                 ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        18.0       17.0               30.2                  42.4
UNNAN                                *-        35.0       30.0               66.0                  62.1
IURAL                                ..        13.0       13.0               20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        35.0       33.0               17. 7                  52.8
DRBAN                                ..       465.0       38.0               71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                ..        32.0       32.0                                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9900.0/c    8970.0    5121.0              6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON          ..      7540.0    5191.0              9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1561.0      1197.0    1107.0              1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                                **       250.0          .              502.9
RURAL                                       1 15820.0       ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER. HOSPITAL RED           ..         34.0        ..                                      28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.6           ..
URBAN                                 .          ..
RURAL                                *            ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URSAN                                ..           .         .
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCZSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCEN7
Of DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                            ..             ..
DUR'AL                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        .                   ..



- 19 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
WRMA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A VEPAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMA1E)=
MOST RECENT      W1k ENCOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
1960 jb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b  ASIA 6 PACIFIC           AS7Ji & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                56.0        87.0      80.0              80.9                  98.6
MALE                 61.0        92.0     83.0              94.3                  99.2
FEMALE              52.0        83.0      78.0              66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                10.0        21.0      22.0              26.6                  55.5
MALE                 13.0        26.0     25.0              34.8                  60.7
FEMALE                7.0        17.0     19.0              18.2                  49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   0.5           1.4      1.4               9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          42.0        47.0      52.0              41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                          ..        32.0        ..              20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       59.7h         ..      67.0             40.9                  85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.8         1.0       1.2               1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                               25.8                 118.9
POPULATION                        5.0        14.0      21.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        ..               2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..       15.0      10.0              13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0        8.1        ..                ..                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   10408.9    11591.3  13045.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 40.1        36.9      36.0              29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            68.0        59.6      53.0              70.5                  51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               11.3        15.4      20.0              11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              47.8        42.9      41.2              37.9                  39.1
MALE                                58.0       54.1      52.9              51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                              37.8       31.1      29.8              23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9         1.0       1.1               1.2                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/d       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.7/d     40.01e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.5/d      8.Oe       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5/d     21.OLe
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      94.0             107.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      68.0              86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URLBAN                             ..          ..      50.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      36.0                ..                 182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      40.0              46.2
RURAL                              ..          ..      40.0              51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   1962;  /d 1958, Rangoon;  /a 1972.
April, 1980



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the do to ar-    rocio  sources  ....   geeaiyjugd  h  se  athoiltatte  andrlal   ithbold alto be noted that they soy no  hr inte-
natoal   oprbebcueo   he  oho   soadoddfoliasdseen    sdh  difeeo  cunrisIn co1ectig rhe doca.  The deco ore,no-
th.o-e. usflto dec         _ordeos of nogoltode, iodioset reds  and oorcne    etato major differ...o-  betoe_o_tr'is..
Theroerecogropeate(I  th  e~e  ootrygrup  f  he  ubeo  ...s.ry sd Il) a soocry grou.p with smht hsbighe- avrge incom   thus the toucery group
of the collect councry loacept fo   Topial Suplu    i d. prrra"th   oo  whrtMdlelcm    oth Africa aed Middle tEas0 Is chee.o b....a. of stroger
so hc-clcorul of ffltel.   I  the. caeroeh ropdaa  hoergdtr   poplain   eghead atthmtl  mean  fooahIdctrad  hbra  only ehe..
10t0  hafo I    hcaclatoagr.u  ha   ot   srtantd                      .at.  Store cfbs coverage of cooresaogthtniatrheens.    heaolhiiyo
dot  anfsoeuIfr.caln  urb   or te   inteing avraeso ot.                             ne Idctor o  anthr.The  aveage.emonl   osefl                          -icom artoite vlo
of one  .ndiator.at    time-amog.the  fsotry a- roferoothgroaps
LeOfREOU   (ohcoaao.dnq   )Poltocm    huca-  p-eato- doocoo  by  -ooe  so p--c-ccgpp
Total - loalnrici        ae  cmrlioig lood are  and Jin-ad e...ru.                             siri . qu,!iejfid   -o  a -rdicol och-l a, t i ...e ,y local.
fo   o Pspasteron, macbee ord kitchen garden  or to lIe falo; 1977 daoa.              naJ. cod fera.a gradaeo  torsos.. prect. c_1 ooraouy sd saistate   oen
G'NPPER C~~LITA_~~US$) - GNP p., -pit. -Poculairt per....pttolcr0t                                      total. sean, iatcoral P-pPyclotioc  (total
.NP..ci   byIU  (lOll -ai -      tCN hpe  cail  en  jd atee  At cren  market7 prire.; 196l-    ara,admel   iie  hote  cupc0I    ebero f hospital beds
coleco   hyse.      oonit  rhdo od 1DrkAta(106Ofhals;  9f,                                     vilablo in poblic and Privacy9 genra  an d  pecialired hospital aodre
971, ace 1900 data.                                                   bu~~~~~~~hbilitortiors-rere.  H..pitals ore  -stbliahmenta peraron.ly actffed
~~ERGYCONSUM~~FTIONPER C~"ITA - ~~-l  o..hyp00 leas  one phyicis.R  naEnblish-etrs peaniding prini.pallcntoIu
and ligoira, Potrole-, outural gas and hydra-,  _oolea  and gtahema.             lc           cecr   a   emaetynahdbyda phyathtapi(ho  by%iId ahmeicalo usnise ans
triiy    rklgao  fca   qtoet  e   opc:li,1970, sod 1978                                       cra   lwf,ec)eihofri-assac,odtr   n   rvd
doca.                                                                 ~~~~limitnd eege of -oia-aite.Fensitte   upssoba- UoPI-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                         t.1~~~~na   IncldeIdlsprocPa-gcrlad upetia1toed hoapitola, and re-a
Totul Frolatioc.Mid-tea  Isi ..)   As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                odteesrtHsptlld-Tnloamhn of  Adenic   oo d                              ischarge
d! at                                     ai         b-t oa.          ..lt-fer  hespitalo divided by the ramber of bede.
dfrotdefsoiona of urban. areas ma  offert   -P.-bility of data                    HOUINGll
aneg cootios  ...   17,an   NN   aa                                                        Average Si-e of lease;hold Inorno.. rer house.hold) -tsl   -bha. and roar1-
Prealetion Protections~   - 11      1 -i p.-t..i   .                        90          A household c it   f agopof Jedividaas oho share living q-ate-a
PIuolri   ea   It-Creo    ouainprjcin    r  bsdo   91                                      sd their mao   eas   A bradee or lodger nay or may crt be included to
toJ.tal prPeatia_y  g  aod see, aedlit  eeir sreaiey. an thet.I., rues                    the hac..eheld far  .tissi-u1 purposes.
iug life oope-t-y an birth i-cetes cg eJtch coutry'sprcptaIcm.e  of pesn  pe  eooa.'2 I                                    ..al  trao and total ocrytdi    .  Aor .eoctona -
irool, ood femae life aepectoey sihlsiga   7.1 year.  Tha pars-                  delig,repcivl.fwlttssldoc-traetarcarun
fertility  -c-diog to J-cam  1oce  otd pas   aiyparigprosac.                           Acs -to,,%   : fetrilct  ereto   ellul- oa,obn   o   ua
lahcuty tote   ssge    nec   hn  sir  crhitaive  ofrtality                           Ieecoa   wlig   theetiiyI --oal, qertern O
and f-ietlito  or-ds for pr-jaetlss Petersen.                                             citna,ara,         hn rurl   we     lonrapciol.9   .    .            p - g
irottosary ccrelarlrn-Inase~~a   tlooaY Popa1-lati   thare I  or growth since         ft.1-b.   o    _   d.i                   .p
ma Ito cosanoon.  Ibis ia acbaaved soly after. _'   f-ttilltyrae  decli-e to      aise   nalerRtr
tha rplacemoo  level of     -ist repr-duccia  eas,he  each genttr                          rsayabo     til-aeJa-eae-iro    oa,moeadfml
of  auerplseeitelfescoy.   heettiaaro   opuastiale  es                    nrlimeo   of all agsa  the primary levle_             ecour   fraoco
.c.the year 1101, an ate  ot  of d-hina of fertilIty 00cr n  rp lae                         yev   u   dune otifrn   lceso   rsryd_                            ie   o
sotlnl                                                                                         aori-ee    sora  ndiff-atIc 9trolfueni say ecad- .; 10  peco
leer otutiesury populatiIe  is . rahed - The y-a  hbe  tiatic...ny  .popatl _.r. stotes-puils see talo   sr                      .1 abov .th  offcia  schead age.--
k'. - Mid-y-  p.p~j.ti..   _  q..- kil.-t., (lecoodary shoo    -1. toa,mle_and fsmle   Competed a   bO;ncodr
-cclrlo  eatt                                                                                 sd-cttoreqe....sat . lat f-e  year  oapprovdprmyintctco
Pe   o   .    -ldya    oalso    e   qse   Ioee:10   etrs9o                                  pervIdes genera        -tl, eaioai, or reacher trinIng Intrt-ti... fIr pupib
totalrea                                                                                    usual-.d.   b.   -t-i-t-1I.d..  ly of 12 te D7 years of og; coerespo-de-ecussar   rea
P2re4elottee egs ic-utiee (poren5   -   Children~ (0-14 year), ambtog_-ag   11).                 tsood  _nsehno-1. indestril  yr1 eteo         poraawhc  oeat   ndpn
Iatier; 1960, 1970, and 197Y8 data.                                                         Ped-teache   raif  -rmr .ad seciedery - Tialu rteooldt
ypolteir  Iroeth lane  -er-en  -treal - Asal. grow-th rates ef tonal mid-                       primaryanaeodrlvlsdnddbnues of teac.hers In the
yorPoPulatitom   for 1950-60, 1960-701..ad 19070-78.                                        cresodIn -ened.y                did.b           b
asoafor 1951-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                    -iapoeennog   ofPs--a ad- pepalatlo  aged. .lb yes -rd oe.d   i.
Crod  limbh care leer ah__eed   1-1A a  live bottle par eb.ooad of sid-yeur                             -..tg-fttld1    pl.i...   5y                             .
pepoetIt; 160,191,. sd i971 data.CfSOPlf
Ceade  eath lte (pe ihousad)    Issoa  deanh  pet housan  of nd-yearPassener Cas loreiba---dIpdelathosP- Ptuhngercaredomprisdmoto
PePsI.i-to; 1960, 1970, aol 1978 data,or  s "eIg  less thoanagd  -peruses;                                                                  .... lade  a -e cc  hearse  and
_en    seocno at       -ntg   nab-e of dough nts a woman will bear in                      silnat  veIcles.           .ght
ho   ora  r_prouiepeld   if she  _mparies     peet ego-specific fe-                    ciir  eciver -ilee- huadpelco)-Altpso   eeve   o   ei
tIlcyraes  aoelyfin-yaravraesania    a1960, 17..ad 1977.                     Rbrodcasd-..!ts  ogerapulcertoan  of ypoplatics; esc1cdan aclI-
Paoiy Platna       ccees  deaua  Irhau..d..   d euAo..l somber of a--ptor.                  tensd racelner  i -taunee   adIn yeas- henrgorco                      f radio  e
ofbirth-control devIces  ade  .uspi.e. of sasaui1 fumlly plamelag prog-u.                  wsi   fet   aafercs   eeamyenh   eprheaoesa
Pumily Plasulna-leer   Irercn  of married wmn I-itPerrntage of marIedI. f.tdt  I t: ty..                                                 .   .-p b     i...
men  o   hild-beariug age (15-44yar)wh   s  bit-rot-I devi-ossI Ro.cuntiesaol-                            o   lcutg
al   aridOsOneiDea   g  gNeNUpTIgeor.a iIpbhlio Per thousan d popolatios; ...clude  eelIrnse   TVrosv
itoo -tries and  Ie year  when  -agistratioofTst   7a In effet
Irdetono  all fodb         umdne.    rdeia cuasedo   fe   e                                 licativa devted primarily C. -ot-ditag geoe..    cows.  It iscolea
is  n  aleda  ysr  ast.    osdltnies     " ruespi .r go.d. Ia.. segeae               to be "datily" if it appear  an bott        or  ies wek
toseu   rt ncI.garj s~hih  rs edible end ...otae sattrioun   (e.g. coffee and             fioalsa    eedoc   e    at   e  ler- Nase  rn  hesobeko
sea ar  antlded       Aggregate pnduotioc of suh .o..nty, is based                          tcessid..i  ..lA tdu.i.g nba year.itaoludi _g  diador        thr drv-it cl
-aloa   eveenge P-odaer price weights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1978 dana.                        end mob,ile ucd1 its.    .Y.,1~ld.    ..i..1   ~y
Pe  cno  erl  o   alrisIcece  o   enirmsn)- Computed fromb                                  i
--egyvqoivaleet ef set feed supplies aveileb1o is -ocesy Per rapIne                   LABOR FORCE
per day.  AVailable eappli:s coprise dometic P-d-rtiomi, Ompo-tls                       Tnllho   ro Icruana) - trsica1ly actino1 per..a ic_ldi
euot,ad changes In  terk.  let supplies  uelude snimel feed, sed,                    amd    _foersaedaepaydhsecain    oswos  stuenc , 
qom-nitle  usd t%omd process. tag, end lossIs dis.tributIon.  Reqciro-                    lefdattian  in vriou  cosry      e  are nor  h"'-'le   96,  90  n
ticswee   srnd bYFPAO b...d on physiolegirab seds for norma  actS-            -      f199  en..i       i.        tt.           tcp             16,97 o
viry ad healob coreederinaevroel               rsmperatcrl     body weeghts, age        fen78 drrer       eml   ae   r o   sprenaeo   oallbrfre
and sac di-tibot ios of Psyction, us   loigl   eos   o   ase5                            atolr   reee                L toa foc   nfrin,ft-t,  otn 
bcaneldleel  16167  1970, sodP1870.data                                                    fiahlog aspar_tegs of tsra1 labo  forc; 1960, 1970 sod 1978 data.
se  spply of trod Per day.  Net supply af food~ in de~fIned us shv.-   Do-              adeetiiy   ae                 u   opretg    itillksfre   90
qeiremects fur all ercorIen  -stblihahd by USIA P-cide fo  nnmod17  aod1978 dana.                            .d  .   ap       -t~          t!M b- - 'i9
aloceo61grama of tonal Pretect Per day and 20 gras  f   eoalan                 Perticipatia   ae(ecn)-ttl   ae   u   eae-Prtlaiec
pco1  otIs, of ahich 10 gras shoad he animal Peoteis.  lb. tseesd-                       atvt   ae   e   optda   eo,ml,adfnl   ao    ocs
rd  are lowert hat  soe f 75 gram  of tonal Proal  sd  1trmsofpectnye  ofctltal  n   eaetoaaln  faleerapriey
so"ita  protio as an av_erag  for tho word, proPose.d by FAt In the ThIrd                 1960, 1970, and total dos.  Tb f-ae re1' p       yp rniciui onof.1    r a reflectin
len!d Fa-d Surve.y;.1961-65. 1970 and 1977 dana.                                            91,17..   95dt.T..i.IO    . ~pi.i.   :lt.
Per capita erotein sanely..I  from cotea1 and eule  - Pro teio  -pply of fsod de-      age-now  seccor  of she pI...       co .dlogtietrnd...ceal
rired fros asimala and palle  is gras pe  day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1877 data.    Itosoi   Rerdsy  ac                 atio of popa1rics a-d-r 15 aod 61 ocd ce
ChIld  lago  1-4) M Motlt   oeIe   ha d)-doaleahptcoaod I                                       otettllhpfeo
ageroP 1-h yeora.'te ehild-en in this age                    thap  Pf ormand hlig  0c
triesd    derivedf frelife tehles; 1960. 190ad  90               dat.                  ISCffIpISRIlII
lif  leeoanr  a  lib  vese)- Averagesember of yyears rflife  c_maisteg                1pret   Ihs   0pret   sre   0pret   n   rm5I   eo
at birti; 1960, 1970 and 198dte.                                                             of house.holds...dkd)-R i    biih.
Jefoot Noorollrn Sane leer~~~197 dhosad) - Anneal deaths ef tofans coder on  year    POVnoty   RG51F  GROUPS
Acessolf  lcr(pretof Pelaio  -erl,abn  sdrratiheis  pvryinoelee   a  htInoelve   eocolh      mo
bomber .1Pa.PIe  (total. c-h-, acd rural  with  e.....able acces  to soe                     ntlinlyadqaede   lsfsesa   c-c0reornnsi   c
rater ..apply Itaclde- seated ac - c  waters or a-teantd but~ ii samttaituri af .rdallyda.                           .d.   l ....t.              -f.    qi       -  ~
wae   ahu   hat fer   rtece    ihashlsa, sPto.ge, ad a..niary wells)                fft-mabe Rlatv.       oen   oreLvl1S.prtrcl-ra    n   ou
I..nta ic cr  cudpos:t located emt more that 200 miners frau   house may ha                  pesonalti_om  o__ the Ioucr.  Uba  lve  Is d               _r_ne   gto otr_
'J.idre  asben  wt inl res toa h. aces  of tho  house.  fr rua  area                     leve  with odjuetmot for higher cost of liniog In uthboutae
do not have tc speed   dl.inpr-pr...ato parrofrh  day is fetchinig th.ad  url   Pnto  ofpplelnOre  aderl  sh   re"bolt  po"
famIY' sase      do...dttl h.-                                                                                                                                     blt  p "
of h-m cncea ood -ast-tue  hy  -uo-b-r-syceo  the san of                                                                                   Apoii, 1980
o   pivIe  and elilo   tstllroo



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
AREA       2                   POPULATION                                                 DENSITY  2
676,581 km                     33.3 million (1980)                                        49 per km 2
Rate of Growth:  2.2% (from 1965 to 1980)                 179 per km  of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS 1980                                   HEALTH 1980
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                         36.8         Population per physician           4,878
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                         10.2         Population per hospital bed        1,404
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)            51.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION 1972                                          DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSFIIP 1975
% of national income:  highest quintile             40%           % owned by top 14% of owners   42%
lowest quintile             8%          1 owned by smallest 62%
of owners                        26%
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY 1977
% of population:  urban    ..                                     x of population                    6.6%
rural
NUTRITION 1977                                                    EDUCATION 1974
Calorie intake as % of requirements                  106%         Adult literacy rate                67%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day)            58           Primary school enrollment          83%
GNP PER CAPITA IN FY1980:a' US$156
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1980                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         FY1965-70       FY1970-80       FY1965-80
GNP at Market Prices            5,181         100.0                            2.0            3.8             3.1
Gross Capital Formation         1,195          23.1                          -3.6             6.0             2.7
Gross Domestic Saving              850         16.4
Foreign Capital Inflow             345          6.7
Exports of Goods, NFS             404           7.8                         -13.5             4.7            -1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS             694          13.4                          10.4            -1.5            -2.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                           Labor Force /             V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.        %                         Mln.    %                         US$
Agriculture c/                  2,356          45.1                        8.9   67.1                       265
Industry d/                       687          13.2                        1.3    9.8                       528
Services/Trade                  2,179          41.7                        2.5   18.8                       872
Not Elsewhere Specified           _              .                         0.5    4.3
TOTAL                      5,222        100.0                       13.2  100.0                       396
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                           Union Government
Kyats mln.        % of GDP               Kyats mln.         % of GDP
FY80            FY80                     FY80             FY80
Current Receipts                         6,214 e/          18.1 e/                 4,965             14.5
Current Expenditures                     5,224             15.2                    5,109             14.9
Current Surplus                            990              2.9                     -144             -0.4
Capital Expenditures                     6,346 f/          18.5 f/                 1,191              3.5
External Assistance (gross)              3,282              9.6
*   All data for FY1980 are revised estimates oE the Government of Burma.
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is based on a straight exchange rate conversion using FY1980 GNP
and K 6.572 = $1.00.
b/  Total labor force:  unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupatioln.
c/  Inclu4fes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
d/  Includes mining, power, and construction.
e/  Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
f/  Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



- 22-                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                          1974    1975       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
(Kyats mln. outstanding at end of period)         Mar.    Mar.       Mar.    Mar.    Mar.    Mar.    Mar.
Money and Quasi Money                          4,056    5,342   6,052   6,377   6,631   8,017   9,567
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   4,906    6,222   6,445   6,213   6,550   7,194   9,225
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    685       639      956   1,489   1,706   1,728   1,625
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               27.7      27.6    25.8    23.6    22.4    25.4    27.9
Consumer Price Index (1970 = 100) a/           144.0    181.3   244.6   280.9   270.1   259.4   274.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                  6.0      25.9    34.9    14.8    -3.8    -4.0         5.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    16.1      26.8      3.6    -3.6       5.4      9.8    28.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  -31.5      -6.7    49.6    55.8    14.6         1.3    -6.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY1980)
FY78     FY79      FY80
(US$ Min.)                                         USS Mln. 
Merchandise Trade         -174.5   -318.2   -342.1    Rice and rice products           185         42
Exports, mainly f.o.b.   238.6    240.4    400.8    Teak                               101         23
Imports, mainly f.o.b.  -413.1    558.6   -742.9    Base metals and ores                29          7
Services and private                                     Animal feedstuff                8          2
transfers                 -7.8    -23.5    -28.5    All other commodities             97         22
Official grants (net)       18.5      59.1      80.0                                   -          -
TOTAL                   439        100
Current account    -163.8   -282.6   -290.6
EXTERNAL DEBT, March 31, 1979
Long-term capital          194.0    302.1    352.8
Foreign loans              169.1    294.3    426.3                                             US$ Mln.
Debt repayment             -24.3    -28.0    -64.4
Other capital (net)         49.2      35.8      -9.1
Short-term bank credit   -17.6        -6.8      -0.6    Outstanding and Disb.                    860.4
Outstanding, inc. Undisb.            1,608.8
Capital account       176.4    295.3    352.2
Errors and omissions         2.8      17.4      30.0    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1980
Overall balance        15.4      30.1      91.6    Ratio of debt service to exports of
goods and non-factor services             24.5
Gross Reserves (end
year)                   124.1    162.1    259.9
Net reserves (end year)   28.4        62.7    178.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, October 31, 1980 (US$ Mln.)
Through Dec. 27, 1971        From Feb. 19, 1973 to                                           IBRD   IDA
US$1.00 = K 4.76             Jan. 25, 1975
US$1.00 = K 4.81
Outstanding and Disbursed                 139.9
From Dec. 27, 1971 to        From Jan. 25, 1975 to
Feb. 19, 1973                May 1, 1977                  Undisbursed                               222.4
US$1.00 - K 5.35             SDR 1.00 = K 7.74            Undisbursed                               222.4
From May 2, 1977            Outstanding, inc.
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51             undisbursed                      --      362.3
As of April, 1980
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
US$1.00 = K 6.60 (approx.)
a/ Annual average at Rangoon for the preceding fiscal year.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
December, 1980



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of October 31, 1980
US$ Million
Loan or                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose            Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and three credits fully disbursed           33.1      53.3
483        1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation                -       17.0        1.1
493        1974  Burma   Forestry                       -       24.0       4.6
597        1975  Burma   Livestock                      -        7.5       4.1
642        1976  Burma   Paddyland Development          -      30.0        13.6
671        1977  Burma   Second Ports                   -      10.0        2.1
686        1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten               -       16.0        2.2
745        1977  Burma   Seed Development               -        5.5       4.9
835        1978  Burma   Paddyland Development II   -          34.5        27.3
879        1979  Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation          -        4.5        4.2
949        1979  Burma   Forestry II                    -       35.0       34.7
958        1979  Burma   Telecommunications II          -      35.0       33.5
1031        1980  Burma   Nyaunggyat Dam                 -      90.0       90.0
Total                                     33.1    362.3
of which has been repaid               33.1       -
Total now outstanding                       -     362.3
Amount sold                    2.7
of which has been repaid 2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a            _      362.3
Total Undisbursed                                 222.4      222.4
Total Disbursed                                   139.9
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981
An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets (300 g.p.m.) and acces-
sories was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Industries Corporation. All of
these units have been sold to farmers in the project area. Favorable costs on
various components of the project have been sufficient to permit the purchase
of 3,000 additional low lift pumps. All of these units have already been sold
to farmers. The construction of four jute baling plants is nearly completed.
Some 550 units of construction equipment were rehabilitated under the equipment
repair program. A reasonable inventory of spare parts remains for future
maintenance. The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments and
drainage channels has been completed. The Closing Date of the Credit has been
extended from March 31, 1980, to April 30, 1981, in order to allow for com-
pletion of disbursements covering consulting services for the preparation of
final design and specifications for the Nyaunggyat Dam project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1982
Project implementation is essentially complete. All major sawmill
rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Log production, from
projected area in FY79/80, is well over target for teak and on target for
hardwood. Teak extraction for the year ending March 31, 1980, totalled
127,000 HT (target 100,000 HT) and hardwood extraction of 100,000 HT (on
target). Project productivity and profitability are most satisfactory.
Remaining procurement will be mainly for spare parts.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC) continues
to implement its reduced project responsibilities slowly. Field services are
being provided by the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department (VAHD) to all
2,665 villages in the project area. The Artificial Insemination Program con-
tinues to expand with over 80,000 cows now inseminated. Some 3,800 acres of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
pasture have been established and 19 water points have been completed. Vaccine
production is almost on target. LDMC continues to collect milk from its own
farms and from the private sector; however, milk production and collection are
constrained by lack of adequate processing facilities. LDMC has agreed to
construct a new dairy plant for the Rangoon area. GOB has decided to site
the new plant at Pyinmabin, about 20 miles from Rangoon. Tender documents
for constructing and equipping the new plant should be issued shortly now that
LDMC has presented evidence which indicates that adequate water of acceptable
quality is available to operate the facility. The Institute of Animal Husbandry
and Veterinary Science (IAHVS) continues with the overseas training component
and hiring of consultant lecturers. Its building program at Yezin is completed.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Despite some delays (mainly due to slow procurement) at. the outset
of implementation, the project is now close to the original schedule. The
procurement is almost completed, and the equipment is being used effectively.
Civil works were completed on two islands and nearly completed on another
island. The construction of drainage channels, flood embankments, and water
control structure is progressing satisfactorily on five of the eight islands
in the project area. The construction of O&M buildings in five t:ownships is
about 70% completed.  These achievements are commendable, given the initial
delays of project implementation. Reclaimed land on islands where construc-
tion has been completed have been allotted and are being used for agricultural
production. Work on the hydrologic investigations is satisfactory. The
Intensified Extension Program, covering the ten townships of Paddyland I and
II projects, has overcome initial problems and a significant impact has been
observed in the Irrawaddy and Rangoon Divisions.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Effective Date: March 18, 1977; Closing Dalte:
December 31, 1981
Spare parts for existing equipment, new cargo handling equipment,
and repair materials have been delivered to Burma Ports Corporation (BPC).
The rehabilitation of the suction dredger and the bucket dredger have been
completed. The two dredgers are in operation, one on the Inner Bar and the
other on Sute Pagoda Wharves. A dredging expert has trained dredger crews in
Rangoon, and two dredger masters have been in Holland for training. Training
specialists (ORT) have commenced courses (27 weeks) for technicians in June
1980. Cabinet has recently approved the Joint Computer Center for BPC and the
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 68r'   Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Project implementation is well advanced. Procurement is nearly
complete with orders placed for about US$17.0 million in goods and services.
Capital costs are expected to exceed the appraisal by about 14.8% in foreign
exchange costs and 32% in local costs, primarily because of the higher:
(i) cost of the dredge resulting in change from originally selected procure-
ment approach; (ii) taxes and duties on imported equipment; and (iii) costs
of construction and civil works. An EEC Special Action Credit (declared
effective on March 5, 1980) was extended to help finance part of the local
costs of the project. Shortly before delivery of the dredge, the dredge
was damaged by fire in the shipyard. Damage to the dredge is estimated at
about 20% of its cost. The Government has now reached an agreement with the
insurance company and the contractor on the insurance claims for the contractor
on the insurance claims for the dredge. Following its repair, the dredge
sailed from Singapore on October 26, 1980 and arrived Tavoy on November 6.
GOB has not yet agreed on the scope of the sector study (US$200,000 allocated
for this purpose) or an alternative study to prepare a second mining project.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
About 90% of land development has been completed at Magwe and 100%
has been completed at Letpedan. Over 1,000 ac have been cleared at Lungyaw.
Building construction is progressing well with most farm structures and
dwellings underway or completed. Most senior staff posts have been filled;
however, there is still a critical shortage of support staff. Overseas
training is behind schedule. About 20 staff members have been selected for
short-course training (3-12 months) during 1980/81. Procurement continues
to be slower than appraisal estimates but is following normal GOB guidelines.
While very positive progress has been achieved, a number of areas need further
improvement. The consultants' schedule for the remainder of their contract
has been slightly revised in consultation with the Agriculture Corporation.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
Procurement of most equipment is progressing on schedule. The
construction of flood embankments, drainage channels, O&M offices, buildings,
and godowns, is progressing satisfactorily. The work of ODA-financed consul-
tants to provide technical assistance to Myanma Agricultural Bank and prepare
a medium- and long-term credit program is progressing well, and the consultants
submitted their draft final report. Actual disbursement is higher than
appraisal estimates due to early delivery of construction equipment.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The rehabilitation of the GOB rubber estates is proceeding very
well; however, the lack of adquate permanent laborers hinders development
and replanting. In 1979, the targetted 1,250 acres of old rubber was cleared
and replanted. This represents a major achievement for the project. The 1980
program will total 880 acres and land clearing is now underway. Nursery dev-
elopment is well advanced, supplying the imported clonal seedlings for the
planting program. Estate building program is on schedule. Subject to finan-
cial justification, the project will proceed with plans for converting the
crumb rubber factory into a 10 ton per day plant processing scrap. Equipment
procurement is behind appraisal estimates due to the lengthy government
procedures. Rubber section management should concentrate on the appointment
of needed staff and laborers to maintain progress. Unfortunately, the project
manager died in June 1980; this will affect the progress of the project in the
short-term. A new project manager has now been appointed.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project; US$35.0 Million Credit
of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Implementation of the project is now underway with much activity
in equipment procurement. Procurement of extraction equipment and district
sawmill equipment is behind 6-8 months and Okkyin sawmill equipment about 4
months. The June 1980 supervision mission developed an action program with
the executing agencies. Overseas training programs have been prepared and
awaiting approval by MAF. FAO is coordinating the training and iis now making
overseas arrangements for the trainees. Six members of the Technical Assis-
tance team under the Burma/Finland Agreement have arrived in Burraa and are
getting settled in and contributing their specialized assistance to the
project. The plantation program is under way with about 3,950 acres of teak
and 900 acres of other species.
Cr. No. 958    Second Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Credit was declared effective on March 3, 1980. The Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation, the executing agency, has initiated procurement.
Cr. No. 1031   Nyaunggyat Dam Multipurpose Project; US$90.0 Million Credit
of November 4, 1980; Effective Date: November 14, 1980
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Credit was signed in Rangoon on November 4, 1980 and declared
effective on November 19, 1980. The bids for the civil works construction
were opened on November 8 and are being evaluated. Construction of the access
road is progressing satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
8 months
(b) Agencies preparing the project
AFPTC and their consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider project
November 1975
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1978 (first appraisal)
July 1979 (follow-up appraisal) 1/
May 1980 (follow-up appraisal) 1/
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November 20, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
March 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
1/   Re-appraisal was necessary because of Government requested changes in
project scope.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
and the appointment of its Project Director (paragraph 35).
(b) The assignment of a Project Coordinator within CC
(paragraph 35).
(c) The establishment of a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) (paragraph 37).
(d) The execution and delivery of the relending agreement
(Subsidiary Loan Agreement) between the Government and
AFPTC (paragraph 49).
Other Special Conditions
(a) The AFPTC would review its current paddy grading criteria
and furnish IDA such review and recommendations by
January 31, 1982 (paragraph 42).
(b) The AFPTC would station in each of the 14 consolidated
townships at least one pest control squad by May 1, 1981,
and additional such squads would be stationed in these
townships by June 1, 1982 (paragraph 44).
(c) The AFPTC and the BRC would, by July 1, 1981, enter into
contractual agreements for the operation of unit trains
(paragraph 45).
(d) The AFPTC would extend the responsibility cf the TD to
include the operation of rice transshipment stores,
fumigation of ships, coordination of water and load
transportation of rice and the coordination and imple-
mentation of the pest control program (paragraph 45).






IBRD 14131 RI
--   \   9L \\ )   \   ;0    }   (   >   NOVEMBER 19B0
M   A.   W   E
/ TOUNGOO
; RA K A IN                              P-k-    ToN    >, 
MOW                        ~~~K A  RE
4)      9  ~~HENZADA        H t       W     D                    bi 
PyGU
th5                    ^<~~~~~~~LPmt
aAYOFNRN0                                                                  GUF OFTA
pant.                                                          17
SEIN-GAIN   STORAGE  PRJECT
, N(                                                      PROfOSEQ STORAGE lOATtONS
INDIA j       CHINA      %~                             -                PIOPS *D t SrIE h4ILL
N t   B;MKsiw-                                        _  ROADS
y       T a   M . O .   5                                           - - -   l E V E S F  
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GI OF r .    -  -            otAN
(   u ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ky kot               so :K'-r.tntRgV
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TWt4 I . 1,     .AU.    _ 
}~~~~~~~~~
AR                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'GANS ORAGEO POJAECT
PROPOSED  TO AE  WCf0AL   DARI
0ghrS  I  >  eh  iiTHAI LAlND    :      ..            .|-0 t_ 
t - - - - Tow0                           t        -                ~ _.



