Document of
The World Bank   ftJ   WWT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2395b-BA
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 26, 1980
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 2, 1977, the Burmese Kyat has been officially valued
at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and consequently its
value floats relative to other currencies. The following exchange
rate is used throughout this report, except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00 = Kyat (K) 6.6
K 1.00   =  US$0.15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                           Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                              0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                              1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                              0.405 hectare (ha)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)        =            28.32 liters (1)    3
1 cubic yard (cu yd)        =            0.765 cubic meter (m )
1 pound (lb)                             0.453 kilograms (kg)
Burmese Units                English/US Units            Metric Units
1 vis                  =       3.60 lb             =        1.63 kg
1 pyi                  =       3.00 pint (dry)    =         1.65 1
1 basket (16 pyi)              3.00 peck           =       26.4  1
1 basket paddy                46.0 lb              =         .0209 ton
1 basket rice                 75.0 lb              =         .034 ton
1 basket paddy/acre                                =       51.46 kg/ha
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
GLOSSARY
Godown   -   Warehouse
Paddy    -   Unhulled rice



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFPTC   -   Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AGM     -   Assistant General Manager
BRC     -   Burma Railways Corporation
CAO     -   Central Accounts Office
CC      -   Construction Corporation
CGI     -   Corrugated Galvanized Iron
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
COM     -   Cost of Material
CPI     -   Consumer Price Index
CSO     -   Central Statistical Organization of the Ministry of
Planning and Finance
DGM     -   Deputy General Manager
GOB     -   Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IRRI    -   International Rice Research Institute
IWTC    -   Inland Water Transport Corporation
M       -   Million
MD      -   Managing Director
PAPRD   -   Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department
PAS     -   Procurement and Sales Department, AFPTC
PCC     -   Project Coordination Committee
PD      -   Project Director
PIU     -   Project Implementation Unit, AFPTC
PPF     -   Project, Planning and Finance Department, AFPTC
RTC     -   Road Transport Corporation
SLRD    -   Settlement and Land Records Department, Ministry of
Agriculture
TD      -   Transport Department, AFPTC
Ton     -   Metric Ton
TPH     -   Tons of White Rice Milled per Hour
TPPC    -   Township Paddy Procurement Committee
UGCF    -   Union Government Consolidate Fund
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION        .................................              1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......      ..................1......... 
III.   PADDY/RICE MARKETING - POLICY AND CONSTRAINTS.          .          2
On Farm Post Harvest Operations         . .                  2
Paddy Procurement ..                                         3
Procurement Price and Grading .             .                3
Paddy Storage .                     .                        5
Rice Milling                        .                        5
Transportation ....................,.                        6
Rice Sales and Price .......................                 6
IV.   THE PROJECT AREA AND ITS PADDY/RICE MARKETING NEEDS                7
Background                      . .    7
Project Area Procurement ...........................         7
Project Area Storage ...................                     8
Project Area Milling and Transportation ....      ........   9
V. THE PROJECT.                                                         9
objectives        .............................              9
Detailed Features ................. .................    10
(a) New Storage Construction .......................    10
(b) Storage and Jetty Rehabilitation ....       ...........   14
(c) Grading and Storage Management .................    15
(d) Pest Control ........      ...........................    15
(e) Grain Driers ........      ...........................    15
(f) Training .    ....................... .............    16
(g) Transportation ........       .........................    16
(h) Transshipment Store .17
(i) Monitoring and Evaluation .....       .................   18
(j) Technical Assistance ...........................    18
Project Costs and Financing ............ ............   18
Procurement ......... ...............................    21
Disbursement ...................      ....................    21
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................    22
The Burmese Corporate System .......................   22
The Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation .    22
This report is based on findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Burma in
November/December 1978 comprising Messrs. Sinha, von Ruemker (IDA), Hawkey,
Kuppuswamy, Livingstone (consultants), and follow-up missions by Mr. D. Lee
in July 1979 and by Messrs. Lee, Vidaeus, Ophuis and Jack in May 1980.



- ii1 
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                   Page No.
The Construction Corporation .....     ..................   23
Project Implementation .............................   23
Project Coordination Committee ....     .................   24
Implementation Schedule ............................   24
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit .....     .................   25
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................   25
Financial Impact ................                      25
Financial Rate of Return ...........................   26
Financial Structure of the AFPTC ....     ...............   26
Profitability of the AFPTC .........................   28
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................   29
Benefits   ...........................................  29
Economic  Analysis   ..................................  30
Sensitivity  Analysis   ...............................  31
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS   .........................................  32
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost
2.  Financial Analysis
3.  Economic Analysis
4.   Specifications for Prefabricated Steel Grain Storage
Buildings - with Drawings
5.  Disbursement Schedule
6.  Organization & Management
7.  Evaluation of the Construction Capacity of CC
8.  Draft Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultants
9.  Proposed Locations for Project Storage Depots of 5,000 Ton Capacity
10.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLE NO.
3.1    Paddy Procurement and Free Market Prices
4.1    The Project Area Procurement Projections
4.2    Permanent Storage Capacity
5.1    Construction Rate
5.2    Summary Cost Estimates
7.1    Financial Rates of Return
7.2    Summary Balance Sheets of the AFPTC
7.3    Summary Income Statements of the AFPTC
8.1    Economic Analysis of Project Components
8.2     Sensitivity Analysis
MAP
IBRD 14131R



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The project was identified during appraisal of the Lower Burma
Paddyland Development I Project (IDA Credit 642-BA, June 1976) and financing
for project preparation was provided under the same project. For this task,
the GOB engaged Sanyu Consultants, Nagoya, Japan, in December 1977. The
consultants submitted their draft final report in October 1978. This report
is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. T.P.N.
Sinha, A. von Ruemker (IDA), and R. Hawkey, M. Kuppuswamy and J. Livingstone
(consultants), who visited Burma in November/December 1978, and appraisal
follow-up missions by Mr. D. Lee in July 1979, and by Messrs. D. Lee,
B. Ophuis and L. Vidaeus (IDA) and D. Jack (Consultant) in May 1980.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Role.  Burma is an agriculture based country, with 75% of its pop-
ulation of 33 million living in rural areas and dependent directly or in-
directly on agriculture. In 1979/80, the agriculture sector, which includes
crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries accounted for 45% of GDP, 67% of the
labor force, about 80% of net output of directly productive sectors and about
85% of exports. In addition, more than 60% of the output of the processing
and manufacturing sector depended on agricultural products such as paddy,
cotton, jute, sugarcane, tobacco and oilseeds.
2.02      Performance.  The agricultural sector performed poorly over the
decade prior to 1975/76 with output increasing at only 1.6%, which was less
than both the 2.3% just ahead of the growth in GDP and the 2.2% population
growth rate. During this decade, export volumes decreased by about two-thirds
largely due to declining rice exports. This poor performance was due to in-
sufficient investment, inadequate agricultural support services, shortage
of inputs and inadequate incentives. There has been a considerable improve-
ment in the sector's performance from 1975/76 through 1979/80 with an annual
growth rate averaging about 5%, reflecting both more favorable weather condi-
tions and Government action to redress past problems. Procurement prices of
crops have been increased, and in particular the procurement price of paddy
was increased by 150% between 1972 and 1975. Agricultural research and
extension efforts are also being strengthened; and higher investment in water
control and timber extraction capacity is being made. As a result, the sector
grew at a higher rate of 3.8% during the Second Four Year Plan period of
1974/75-1977/78. GOB plans to increase agriculture's share of state capital
expenditure from about 20% for the period 1971/72 to 1977/78 to 27% for the
period 1978/79 to 1981/82. Even then, considering the low base from which
Burma is starting, there is much scope for further improvement in the supply
of agricultural inputs and services, and in increasing incentives.



- 2 -
2.03      Paddy Production.  Burma's main crop is paddy, which accounts for
54% of the 23 M acre sown area. Milled rice is the country's main export
commodity, with paddy production reaching about 10.0 M tons in 1979/80. The
harvest during 1980/81 is expected to exceed 11.0 M tons. Production has
grown slowly at about 3.0% per annum over the last decade, and the volume of
export has dwindled. Yield increases have been small, due in part to the lack
of locally adapted high yielding varieties of good quality. The IDA-supported
Burma Seed Development Project (Cr. 745-BA) is strengthening GOB's applied
research and seed multiplication capacity. The area under paddy has also
shown only a very modest increase of 0.4% per annum over the last decade due
to inadequate investment in irrigation and maintenance of flood protection
embankment structures. The IDA supported Irrigation I Project (Cr. 483-BA)
and Lower Burma Paddyland Development I and II Projects (Cr. 642-BA, 835-BA)
are helping to increase the cropped area.
III. PADDY/RICE MARKETING - POLICY AND CONSTRAINTS
On Farm Post Harvest Operations
3.01      Almost all of the paddy is grown in the wet season, generally last-
ing from mid-May until mid-October and is harvested and threshed during the
dry months between November and January. Harvesting is done manually. To
avoid peak labor demands, it is usually spread over several months by growing
paddy with different planting times and maturities. Moisture content at
harvest is relatively low, at about 18-20%. Though this eases subsequent
threshing and drying, it increases shattering losses--estimated at about
7%--during reaping, binding and carrying. Threshing is usually done by
animal treading and this time-consuming procedure causes further quantitative
and qualitative losses. By tying up animal power it also hinders multiple
cropping.
3.02      As the climate following harvest is favorable for sun drying, farmers
dry paddy both in the field and on the threshing floor for one to two weeks.
Since the grading incentives are inadequate (paras 3.09 and 5.22), farmers do
not make enough effort to dry paddy properly to avoid quality deterioration,
which later affects storability and milling yields. Poor quality is one of
the reasons for the low price obtained by Burmese rice when exported (para
3.21). Improved grading incentives (para 5.22) would address this problem.
A pilot drying project (para 5.27) would also evaluate the economies and
acceptability of artificial drying.
3.03      Farmers store their paddy for their own use in bulk in bamboo cages
known as "Poke," and in bamboo bins. Both are plastered by mud and cowdung.
Quality of paddy stored in these structures is generally good and the losses
are estimated at only 1-3% per year. Any surplus paddy is transported to
market or procurement centers, mostly in bulk, by boat in the delta and by
bullock carts in other areas. Average transport distance is about 3 miles
by land in non delta areas and costs are about 5-10% of procurement price.
AFPTC has experimented with mobile procurement at farmgate but the costs



have been high. In some areas, AFPTC is experimenting with procurement
through cooperatives to let farmers take advantage of economies of scale
in transportation.
Paddy Procurement
3.04      The Government procures paddy from farmers through AFPTC, based on
a minimum quota, which is negotiated and fixed at the village level.   The
quota for each farm family is established based on GOB guidelines which
specify that a higher proportion of production should be procured from a
farmer with higher production. Since paddy is procured on the average at
about 40% below free market prices, the procurement system also serves as a
progressive agricultural income taxation system.
3.05      AFPTC procures about a third of national paddy production.  The
procurement quota is negotiated and fixed at the village level based on
targets set by a Township Paddy Procurement Committee (TPPC) consisting of
representatives from the Township Peoples Council, the Peasant Association,
the Agriculture Corporation (AC), AFPTC, and Settlement and Land Records
Department (SLRD). The quota for each farmer is based on estimates of his
paddy surplus after allowing 0.3 tons (15 baskets) for consumption per family
member, 23 kg (1.1 basket) per acre for seed, 2% of production for storage
and handling losses and an allowance for payment to labor in kind according
to local practice. The production estimate is made by SLRD based on two
surveys of farmers' fields in July and September of each year. Surveyors
are reported to keep their yield estimates conservative to avoid farmer
complaints.
3.06      Once a farmer has fulfilled his quota, he can sell paddy in the
open market within his township. In paddy deficit States and Divisions, paddy
can also be sold across township boundaries, but only within the same State
or Division. Since the procurement is about 60% of marketable surplus, the
average farmer can sell about 40% of his surplus (23% of production) at higher
free market prices. An assurance has been obtained under Credit 835-BA that
GOB would periodically review and revise, if necessary, its paddy pricing
system to ensure that farmers have adequate financial incentives to make the
investments necessary to increase production (Report No. P-2359-BA, para 71).
Procurement Price and Grading
3.07      The paddy procurement price is fixed by AFPTC and can be changed
only after cabinet approval. Prior to 1973, the price was very low, only
K 358 per hundred baskets for the predominant Ngasein paddy variety. Between
November 1972 and July 1974, GOB, recognizing a need for higher production
incentives, increased prices for all varieties by 151%. Upward adjustments
in prices for higher quality paddy were made in 1977/78 (4-7%) and in 1980/81
(2-12%).
3.08      Procurement prices along with free market prices for low quality
(Ngasein) and high quality (Ngakywe) paddy are shown below:



-4-
Table 3.1: Paddy Procurement and Free Market Price in 1977/78
(kyat per hundred basket)
Procurement      Free Market         Price
Variety           Price (a)        Price (b)       Difference
Ngasein, ordinary         900            1,500             600
Ngakywe, ordinary       1,090            2,160           1,070
The table shows that the absolute difference between the free market and
procurement price is much higher for the better quality variety paddy. Conse-
quently, farmers sell their poorest quality paddy to AFPTC and keep the higher
quality varieties for home consumption or sale to private traders. This has
some beneficial aspects such as (a) encouragement for the cultivation of
higher yielding but lower quality paddy varieties and (b) less use of the
government rations-and subsidy by higher income families, who can afford the
higher quality rice available only on the free market at higher prices (para
3.19). However, it also reduces the quality of export rice, which is procured
through the AFPTC channel. One way to increase rice export earnings would be
to increase the procurement price for those varieties which are popular in
international markets. GOB has taken steps toward this by increasing the pro-
curement price for high quality paddy which is mainly used for export.
3.09      At procurement centers, farmers' paddy is graded to determine appro-
priate price level and to segregate paddy according to quality for subsequent
processing and sales. The present system is inadequate for three reasons.
(a) Grading/Price Structure: Although recent adjustments in the
procurement price structure (para 3.07) may be expected to
encourage farmers to deliver paddy of higher storability and
quality, the present structure does not give sufficient
incentive to farmers to dry their paddy, or to protect it
from moisture damage, yellowing and from sun checking.
(b) Grading Personnel: Because of the extreme seasonality of
procurement--90% in three months--a large proportion of
procurement staff are seasonal and quite often have little
training and experience in grading. The problem is further
aggravated when a large number of farmers arrive at the
same time and grading personnel are forced into a per-
functory grading. Thus, the objectives of improving quality
through grading incentives and improving milling by segre-
gating different grades of paddy, are quite often defeated.
(c) Grading Equipment: Some of the grading equipment such as
hullers and winnowers are too antiquated to facilitate
efficient operation.
3.10      These constraints would be addressed by the project primarily through
the provision of equipment (paras 5.23 and 5.24), training (para 5.28) and by
reviewing the grading criteria (para 5.22).



-5-
Paddy Storage
3.11      Procurement of paddy is highly seasonal with about 90% being pro-
cured during January to March. Since only about 30% of the paddy can be
milled during this period, about 60% of the procured paddy accumulates and
has to be stored. Existing permanent storage capacity is inadequate both in
quality and quantity--amounting to less than 50% of the present procurement.
AFPTC has tried to increase permanent storage capacity, but shortage of local
construction material such as durable hardwood has hampered that effort.
AFPTC has, therefore, relied heavily on rented permanent godowns, requisi-
tioned from the private sector. These now account for over one third of total
permanent storage capacity used by the AFPTC and are in poor shape. Since no
more rental godowns are available, the AFPTC has relied on temporary sheds
which do not protect paddy adequately from moisture and pests. Consequently
the loss in value of paddy due to quality deterioration caused by shortage
of storage space is high.
3.12      Most of the existing godowns are old and in need of repair.  The
private godowns have been poorly maintained because the low annual rental
level of K 5 per 100 baskets (US$0.35 per ton) provides little incentive for
repair. Since 1978 AFPTC has encouraged owners of rented godowns to rehabili-
tate their stores through a program for advancing one year's rent and assist-
ing owners in obtaining local building materials (para 5.20).
Rice Milling
3.13      Rice milling is one of the oldest industries in Burma.  There are
3,020 registered rice mills with 1,850 TPH (white rice) milling capacity.
Most of the milling capacity (97%) is in the private sector. About 25% of
the private sector mills with about 60% of the capacity are required by law
to mill only for AFPTC. The remaining mills, known as Wunza mills, are
allowed to mill farmers' paddy.
3.14      Most of the mills are very old, with an average age of about 35
years, powered by steam engines, and are operating beyond their economic life.
In the past, the mills have suffered due to a severe shortage of spare parts,
but the situation has improved lately. Still, some spare parts, such as low
pressure boilers, are difficult to procure even when foreign exchange is
available. Local millers and AFPTC personnel have displayed considerable
ingenuity in locating and reconditioning old boilers, for example, those
discarded by the railways. However, the supply from such sources is limited
and a decline in the milling capacity of the older mills seems inevitable.
3.15      The majority of the Burmese mills are husk fired.  The husk,
obtained as a by-product from rice milling, is sufficient to supply all their
energy needs. The milling process is mostly of the Schule type using under-
runner disk shellers.
3.16      AFPTC is negotiating with the People's Republic of China, the Gov-
ernment of Japan and the Asian Development Bank for assistance to the rice
milling sector. Therefore IDA assistance for rice milling is not required
at this time.



-6-
Trans portat ion
3.17      AFPTC procured paddy is transported in bulk from the procurement
centers to the stores before the onset of the first rains in April. Paddy
transportation is by private barges and sampans in the delta and mainly by
private trucks in other areas. In Lower Burma, about 0.5 M tons of paddy is
moved for an average distance of about 30 miles. This movement is uneconomic
as paddy loses 25% of its weight after milling and, therefore, should better
be stored and milled at procurement sites in the production areas. In addi-
tion to reducing weight to be transported, such a location strategy would also
reduce peak transport demand and expensive double handling of paddy. Unfor-
tunately, most of the existing stores and mills are located near urban areas,
resulting in excessive paddy movement.
3.18      The major rice movement is from rice surplus areas of Lower Burma
to rice deficit areas of Upper Burma for local consumption and to major ports,
such as Rangoon and Bassein, for export. Official movement of rice is about
1.6 M tons, of which 1.0 M tons is for internal consumption.  About 54% of
rice is moved by water and 46% by land. The private sector (32%) and IWTC
(20%) are the major carriers transporting rice by water; the role of AFPTC
(2%) has been insignificant. Rice transport to Upper Burma is usually by
rail and truck. AFPTC often uses trucks even for long haul, from Rangoon to
Mandalay and Thazi, though rail transport is cheaper. This is due to a lack
of fast and fully scheduled rice transport by railways (para 5.30).
Rice Sales and Price
3.19      Internal Sales.  Rice is the main staple foodstuff in Burma and
provides 75-80% of total calorie intake. GOB sells rice through the
cooperative stores at prices which are about 40% below free market prices.
Monthly ration level is 6 pyi (13 kg) per adult and 3 pyi per child. The
cooperatives sell rice mainly in rice deficit townships. These townships
are in upper Burma, the Shan State and large urban centers such as Rangoon.
About 1.3 M tons of rice were sold in 1976/77, reaching a third of the pop-
ulation. Since the better quality rice is rarely available in the ration
shops, higher income families buy their rice from the free market. Most
farmers retain their own production (usually of higher quality) and do not
use the ration shops.
3.20      Export Sales Volume.  Burma's rice (including rice products) exports
declined from 1.3 M tons in 1965 to only 0.2 M tons in 1975, due to stagnant
production, procurement problems and increasing home consumption. Since 1975,
exports have improved; 0.4 M tons in 1976 and 0.7 M tons in 1979/80. They
are expected to reach 0.9 M tons within a few years.
3.21      Export Sales Price.  Burmese rice fetches a low export price because
of its poor quality, usually 30% below the Thai (5% broken) rice price. This
is partly due to the high proportion of brokens (usually 35%) which is caused
mainly by poor paddy quality. Improved grading incentives and storage condi-
tions would help improve paddy quality and reduce the proportion of brokens.
The export price per ton head rice averaged US$248 in 1979/80.



IV. THE PROJECT AREA AND ITS PADDY/RICE MARKETING NEEDS
Background
4.01      Location and Climate.  The project area consists of the Irrawaddy,
Rangoon and Pegu Divisions of-Burma, which are together known as the Lower
Burma Region (Map 1). The area includes the Irrawady delta and is located
between 16 -19 N. latitudes.  The maximum temperature ranges between 80 -1000F
with April as the warmest month. The rainfall ranges between 80-100 inches
per annum, with 85% of it in the monsoon season between May and September.
Rainfall during the main paddy procurement season between December and March
is less than 2% of total rainfall. Average humidity is between 70% and
80%.
4.02      Topography and Soils.  The delta area, where most of the project
investments would go, consists of a large number of islands with elevations
ranging from 2 to 10 ft above mean sea level. The bearing capacity of soil
is low, as an average 700 lbs per sq ft, and this limits the type and size
of structures that can be constructed economically (para 5.08).
4.03      Population and Farm Size.  The project area population is 11 mil-
lion, which is 34% of Burma's population, and is growing at 2.2% per annum.
The number of farm families is 880,000 with an average farm size of 10 acres.
About 77% of the cultivated area is sown with paddy. The sown area changes
very little from year to year. Marginal increases of about 0.6% per annum
have occured in the delta region, due to paddyland reclamation activities.
4.04      Production.  In 1979/80, project area paddy production was 6.8 M
tons, which is about 68% of the national production. The yields were
0.86 tons/acre, which is above the national average of about 0.74 tons/acre.
Since 1971/72, yield increases of about 1.7% per annum coupled with area
increases of about 0.6%, have resulted in annual production increases of about
2.3%.
Project Area Procurement
4.05      The project area is the major rice surplus area in the country and
accounts for 82% of the national procurement. This procurement has averaged
about 40% of production and about 56% of the marketable surplus. Table 4.1
shows procurement projections to 1982/83, assuming no increase in AFPTC
procurement as a proportion of marketable surplus.



- 8 -
Table 4.1: Project Area Procurement Projection for AFPTC
1979/80-1982/83
('000 tons)
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Irrawaddy                    1,134      1,176      1,201      1,238
Rangoon                        429         441       454        467
Pegu                           851         862       874        885
Total Project Area       2,414       2,479      2,529      2,590
Project area procurement is expected to increase to 2.6 M tons by 1982/83,
an increase of 290,000 tons over 1976/77 level.  This increase in procurement
would require additional storage facilities (para 4.07).
Project Area Storage
4.06      The quality of project area storage is poor.  The permanent stores
are infested by rodents, birds and insects and substantial losses occur. There
are two types of losses. First are physical storage losses, grain destroyed or
damaged to a degree where it has no economic value and which are estimated to
amount to about 6% per year. Second are losses in overall grain quality--
since paddy is mostly stored in bulk without aeration, grain quality deterio-
rates steadily while in store--quality losses are estimated to result in a
loss in paddy value of about 4% per year. Together, in existing permanent
stores the value of physical and quality loss is estimated to total about 10%
per year in financial terms. In non-permanent stores financial losses are
estimated to reach 20% over a five month storage period.
4.07      Many of the project area stores are badly located and entail waste-
ful transportation of paddy. A projection for storage needs in the project
area is shown in Table 4.2 along with existing permanent storage capacity.
The forecast excludes storage required for less than 1.5 months, which is
best met by temporary stores.
Table 4.2: Permanent Storage Capacity in Project Area
('000 tons)
Capacity Required
in 1982/83           New Storage
Existing         With Economic            Required
Capacity (a)    Transportation (b)          (b) - (a)
Irrawaddy                  567                    705                138
Rangoon                    274                    312                 38
Pegu                       436                    488                  52
Total Project Area    1,277                   1,505                228



Over one-third of the existing permanent storage capacity is rented and is
in a very poor condition. Even if AFPTC continues to rent this existing
storage, 228,000 tons of new permanent stores would be required by 1982/83.
Project Area Milling and Transportation
4.08      The project area has a total rice milling capacity of about 1,265
TPH of white rice, or about 68% of Burma's total milling capacity. The mill-
ing capacity is adequate in Rangoon and Pegu Divisions. Assuming a 1% yearly
decline in milling capacity of newer AFPTC owned mills, and a 3% decline per
annum in older rented mills, the new rice milling capacity requirement would
be 19 TPH of rice in Irrawaddy Division. AFPTC planned projects with ADB and
bilateral financing would provide this capacity.
4.09      Paddy transportation requirements of AFPTC would not change from
its present level of about 0.5 M tons, even though its paddy procurement would
increase by about 0.29 M tons. This is because, under the proposed project,
new stores would be constructed at procurement centers which are transporting
the highest ton-miles of paddy. Also, the areas which now have storage surplus
would experience procurement increases which will reduce their ability to
receive paddy from outside. However, while there would be no increase in
paddy movements, rice transportation requirements would increase by about
190,000 tons due to the increased procurement projected. The average trans-
portation distance for rice by rail and/or road would be 115 miles.
V. THE PROJECT
Objectives
5.01      The project, which would be carried out over the period 1981 through
1984, would improve the procurement and storage of paddy and the transportation
of rice, and consist of the following:
(a)  New Storage capacity of 100,000 tons at 20 sites in
10 townships;
(b)  Rehabilitation of about 500,000 tons of storage capacity
owned by AFPTC and about 120 small wooden jetties;
(c)  Grading and Storage Management Equipment for 600 pro-
curement centers and the new stores;
(d)  Pest Control equipment and supplies;
(e)  A Drying Pilot Project in 3 townships;
(f)  Training in Burma for 1,280 persons (305 man months) and
overseas for 38 persons (70 man months);
(g)  Rehabilitation of 60 rice wagons; and
(h)  A Transshipment store for rice with 3,000 ton capacity;



- 10 -
(i) Monitoring and Evaluation; and
(j) Technical Assistance in finalization of new storage design
and in early project implementation.
Detailed Features
(a) New Storage Construction
5.02      Project Size.  Paddy stores of 100,000 tons total capacity at about
20 sites would be constructed over a 36 month project implementation period
ending in the third quarter of FY84. The project would increase the perm-
anent storage capacity in the project area by a modest 8%. As Table 4.2
indicates, the storage capacity created would be less than half of the demand
for incremental capacity; it would also be only a third of the incremental
capacity proposed by the consultants in the preparation report. The project
size could be increased by extending the construction period but, because of
implementation constraints and considering the possibility of including
further construction in a follow-up project, the proposed project size is
considered appropriate.
5.03      Alternative Designs Considered.  AFPTC's existing stores (including
those provided under the ADB-supported Rice Processing Industries Project
which involved building 35 stores of 1,000 tons capacity each between 1974
and 1979) are built with locally extracted durable hardwoods of the variety
Pyinkado. Although the variety is amply growing in Burma, supply had, in
the past, been short because of the priority given to timber extraction for
export of Teak. For this reason, only 12,000 tons per year of permanent stor-
age capacity for paddy has been created on the average in recent years.
5.04      The consultants' proposal for construction under the project of
standard type timber godowns (1,000 tons capacity) was therefore not pursued
and alternative designs were explored. Use of concrete and masonry struc-
tures was not acceptable because of poor soil conditions prevailing in the
project area, the excessive construction burden such structures would place
on CC and their high cost of construction. Imported prefabricated steel
structures, which would be easy to erect, were considered a feasible alter-
native. Originally, prefabricated 250 tons circular steel bins of relatively
large diameter and moderate height were proposed. However, these structures
cannot be easily adapted for manual bulk handling or for bag storage and were
also, because of fear of condensation, not found suitable by GOB for Burmese
conditions. Subsequently, rectangular prefabricated steel buildings of
2,500 ton capacity were considered. This type of storage structure is more
versatile, being suitable for bulk and bag storage as well as for manual
handling. It is also easily adaptable to mechanical bulk handling and pre-
cleaning. However, being a more rigid structure than the traditional timber
shell, the construction of prefabricated steel godowns on soils of low bear-
ing capacity can present technical problems.



- 11 -
5.05      The follow-up Appraisal Mission in June 1980 was advised by GOB
that a substantial surplus of sawn Pyinkado (60,000 tons) was available for
domestic use. With shortage of local timber no longer being a constraint
on the choice of godown superstructure, it was decided to include the option
of constructing godown shells either from local timber or from imported pre-
fabricated steel. The wooden godown option would provide flexibility to
suit godown structures to soil conditions at selected sites. It would also
facilitate quicker project implementation because of less complex design and
engineering as well as procurement procedures involved. It was, therefore,
proposed by GOB and agreed by IDA that 15 of the 20 project storage depots,
each consisting of two 2,500 tons godowns, would be constructed of local
timber and five of imported prefabricated steel. Experience gained from the
construction and use of a limited number of steel godowns under this project
may prove useful for future projects when, because of timber shortage or
other reasons, this technology becomes preferable.
5.06      In view of the longer lead time for steel structures, the following
construction schedule is proposed for the above configuration of godown
structures.
Table 5.1: Construction Schedule for 5,000 Tons Storage Capacity Depots
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   Total
Local Timber Godowns                  6          5          4        15
Prefabricated Steel Godowns           -          2          3         5
Total                            6          7         7        20
5.07      Storage Design.  In view of the long and successful experience of
bulk storage and movement of commercial paddy in Burma, the proposed project
facilities would be bulk warehouses. Each storage depot would consist of
two buildings, adequately spaced, each with a storage capacity of 2,500 tons.
The dimensions of the timber structure would measure 50 ft x 225 ft x 14 ft
with a gable roof sloped 30 degrees and comprise five equally-sized compart-
ments (detailed sepecifications and drawings-for the timber godown are given
in Annex 4). The prefabricated steel structure would be designed according
to the same design considerations and rough dimensions as for the timber
structure. Given the available standards of buildings, the prefabricated
steel godowns would have 15 ft storage height.
5.08      The construction of the godown substructures would have to be
modified to meet the safe soil bearing requirements at the selected sites.
It is expected that where average soil conditions prevail (para 4.02), the
timber godown with full loading height of 14 ft would have to be erected on
a foundation requiring continuous footing. Where soil conditions are better
than average, spread footing could be used. In either case, the structural
wooden floor supported by brick cross bearing walls would allow for instal-
lation of an unloading conveyor underneath the floor of each godown (para
5.10). For prefabricated steel godowns, it would be necessary under the
average soil conditions indicated for the project area and with full loading
height of 15 ft to construct a structural concrete floor on a raft foundation.



- 12 -
For locations with better soil conditions, a concrete slab floor on compacted
sand could be used, thereby considerably reducing costs for substructure.
In the latter case, unloading conveyor belts would have to be installed in
the alley between the two buildings.
5.09      Final designs and specifications for mechanical equipment and
superstructures of prefabricated steel godown would be prepared by CC with
the technical assistance of engineering consultants to be provided under
the project (para 5.35).
5.10      Mechanical Handling and Precleaning.  Loading and unloading in
existing paddy stores is done manually in baskets, via the doors, using bags
as stairs. AFPTC has experienced difficulties in obtaining labor in suffi-
cient quantity for this particular and physically demanding work during the
peak procurement season. Since the godowns under the project in most cases
would be integrated at each site with a new 6 TPH rice mill (financed with
external assistance), a relatively high frequency of loading and unloading
operations (3 to 4 times annual turnover) is envisaged. Under these circum-
stances, to overcome the expected labor problems mechanical handling equipment
would be a necessary item. Manual loading and unloading of paddy in bulk and
rice in bags via doors should remain possible. Since the paddy procured by
AFPTC often contains high portions of dust, immature materials and impurities
which impair storability and consequently, quality of milled rice, precleaning
equipment would be installed at the intake to remove these admixtures prior
to storage.
5.11      To provide for mechanical loading and unloading of paddy, a belt
conveyor with a capacity of 25 tons/hr would be installed in the central
part of the upper portion of each building and an unloading conveyor of
similar capacity would be mounted underneath the floor in the center of
each building. Two short belt conveyors would be connected to the unload-
ing conveyors for distributing grain to sacking spouts or to the adjacent
rice mill (Annex 4, paras 21-23). A precleaner and two elevators would be
installed in front of the buildings. One elevator would be fed from a dump-
ing hopper or the unloading belt and serve the precleaner. The other eleva-
tor would feed via down spouts the loading belt conveyors in the top of each
of the godowns (Annex 4, paras 19-21). A diesel generator (40 kw) would be
installed in each storage depot to provide the electric power for mechanical
handling equipment, precleaning equipment and the aeration systems (para
5.13).
5.12      The designs and technical specifications for the mechanical hand-
ling equipment, the precleaning equipment and the aeration system would be
prepared by AFPTC in consultation with CC and with the technical assistance
of a mechanical engineer to be provided under the project (para 5.35).
5.13      Aeration System.  Properly dried paddy generally stores well in
bulk and losses may remain low. However, with higher moisture contents in
processed paddy which frequently is the case in Burma (para 3.02), condensa-
tion, heating, yellowing and serious quality deterioration resulting from
attack by micro-organisms occur. A system of forced aeration would help
control temperature and moisture equilibrium conditions in the grain bulk



- 13 -
and reduce considerably the risks of quality deterioration.  Thus, each of
the two buildings in the storage depot would be provided with an aeration
system consisting of two ducts per compartment served by fans capable of
supplying an air flow at the rate of 1/3 cfm/bu (Annex 4, paras 14 and 15).
5.14      Many existing stores, either permanent or temporary are neither
watertight nor rodent and bird proof. Owing to their loose structure and
the many poles, fumigation of the entire store or of sections with the use
of tarpaulins is virtually impossible. Consequently, losses due to molds,
insects and animals can be considerable when paddy is stored for a long
period (Annex 3, Table 4 p. 2). Therefore, the new storage structure should
adequately protect the grain against flood and rain water, be bird and rodent
proof, and allow for good sanitation practices. In addition, dosing devices
would be installed in the conveyor system for adding protecting insecticides
to the intake grain flow. The possibilities of distributing fumigants into
the grain heap through aid of the aeration system should be tried out.
5.15      Location.  New stores would be located in townships where the 20
new rice mills (6 tons paddy/hr) financed with the assistance of ADP and OECF,
are to be constructed. The selections of these locations, indicated on the
map (IBRD 14131R), were made on the basis of identifying milling and storage
deficits of 20,000 tons within a maximum distance of 20 km. At negotiations
an assurance was obtained that in the event the agreed locations for new
stores, listed in Annex 9, were to be changed during project implementation
AFPTC would advise IDA of the proposed changes prior to the commencement of
construction.
5.16      Site Selection.  Within a selected township, a site would be selected
where:
(a) the soil conditions would allow economic construction;
(b) trucks or barges would have easy access and the require-
ment for building feeder roads or canals would be minimal;
(c) a procurement center exists with sufficient projected
surplus to fill the stores or else there is such a center
nearby which could be relocated to the proposed site;
(d) flood levels are such that they would not require too high
a plinth level and therefore uneconomic construction;
(e) where new mills are to be built in the townships, the site
would allow integration of procurement, storage and milling
activities; and
(f) there is an existing mill with insufficient storage capacity
to store all the paddy it could mill in off peak season.
5.17      Store Construction.  Timber stores and foundations for timber and
prefabricated steel godowns would be constructed by CC (para 6.05) as the
contractor with local material acquired by CC. Imported materials would be



- 14 -
provided by AFPTC in accordance with the usual local practice. Prefabricated
steel structures would be assembled at site by CC which has previous experi-
ence in assembling similar structures. The supplier of structures and equip-
ment would send representatives to Burma for about five months to train
supervisors in erection of storage shells, installation and operation of
mechanical handling equipment and also to solve any technical problems that
may arise.
5.18      Costs.  The financial costs per ton of storage capacity for the
new storage under the project are estimated to be US$241 and US$310 for the
timber and prefabricated steel godowns respectively. The civil works compo-
nents (including prefabricated steel structures) alone for the two godown
versions are estimated at US$150 and US$229, respectively. These latter
costs are high in relation to construction costs for similar warehouse struc-
tures elsewhere in the South Asia region (Annex 1, Table 22). The principal
causes of the high construction costs are the low bearing capacity of soil
in the dSlta requiring strong and cosSly foundations, high costs of concrete
(US$60/m  plain concrete and US$400/m  for RCC slabs) and in the case of the
prefabricated steel godown high import duties and taxes. High construction
costs for foundations caused by poor soil conditions in the project area
would, however, tend to be offset by savings of paddy transportation costs
(para 3.17) that would be expected to materialize as a result of the location
of storage-cum-milling centers in the project area.
(b) Storage and Jetty Rehabilitation
5.19      AFPTC owned stores are in poor shape, often with leaky roofs, broken
wire mesh in verntilators and roof overhangs which need bird-proofing, and
dilapidated wooden floors. Under the project about 500 stores would be reha-
bilitated at an average cost of US$2,000 per store, including imported roofing
sheets and wire netting worth US$900 and local hardwood worth US$650. The
repairs required would be determined and implemented by the Project Implementa-
tion Unit within AFPTC which would procure and issue the necessary materials.
The rehabilitation work would be carried out by AFPTC's storage rehabilitation
groups at the township level.
5.20      AFPTC rented stores are in poor shape but are gradually being up-
graded through rehabilitation by private owners encouraged by the program of
AFPTC to advance one year's rent and to make local building materials (e.g.
cement, roofing materials etc.) available. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that the ongoing AFPTC program for rehabilitation of rented
godowns would be continued for purposes of reducing storage losses in private
godowns rented by AFPTC. To supplement this program and to meet the need for
assisting private store owners in obtaining birdscreens the project would
provide for imported wire netting for about 150 private stores at an average
value of US$650 per store.
5.21      Wooden jetties provide access to stores and procurement centers and
are often in such poor condition that delays in loading and unloading paddy
are inevitable. About 120 such jetties would be improved at a cost of about
US$1,300 each. This amount would be used for hardwood and cash for hired labor
employed by AFPTC.



- 15 -
(c) Grading and Storage Management
5.22      Grading Price Structure.  This requires modifications (para 3.09)
to give farmers greater incentive to improve the quality of paddy and in
particular to dry paddy so as to increase its storability. Assurances were
given at negotiations that AFPTC would review its current paddy grading
criteria and make recommendations for ensuring that farmers have adequate
financial incentives to deliver paddy of better storability and quality.
Such recommendations would be furnished for IDA review by January 31, 1982.
5.23      Grading Efficiency.  Grading equipment consisting of a hand huller,
a hand winnower and a sample board would be provided for 600 procurement
centers. These are inexpensive (US$110 per set), simple to operate and would
help to reduce the grading time. In addition, the procurement personnel would
receive appropriate training (para 5.29).
5.24      Store Management.  For each of the 20 sites where new stores would
be put up, 2 psychometers, 2 registering thermometers, 2 grain thermometers,
1 grain trier and 1 set of dockage sieves, would be provided at a cost of about
US$335 per site. Since these sites would be merged with existing procurement
centers, equipment such as moisture meters and weighing scales would be avail-
able. The store managers would be trained (para 5.28).
(d) Pest Control
5.25      Pest control activities are hampered by a lack of staff, training,
equipment and chemicals. The pest control section has a sanctioned strength
of 42 squads, but it is operating with only 33 squads. The assurance was
obtained that by May 1, 1981, at least one pest control squad, consisting of
one inspector and two technicians, would be stationed in each of the 14 con-
solidated townships in the project area; and that by June 1, 1982, two such
squads would be stationed in these townships.
5.26      The pest control section would also be provided with hand sprayers,
gas circulating fans and pesticides (warfarim and phostoxin) amounting to
US$40,000 to serve incremental storage provided under the project. Training
(para 5.28) would also be provided. The pesticides would be used in AFPTC
stores only and would not create any environmental problems.
(e) Grain Driers-
5.27      Moisture content is a vital factor in preventing quality deteriora-
tion of paddy in storage. Generally drying is not a problem as harvesting
falls in the dry season. However, at the end of the dry season isolated rains
may sometimes cause drying problems. In order to test the economic and social
acceptability of artificial drying and its effectiveness in reducing sun
checking 1/, pilot drying plants would be provided for three townships. The
1/   Cracks induced by improper drying of paddy.



- 16 -
selected townships would be located, one each in the upper, middle and lower
delta. In each township, two alternative designs of driers--a cup and cone
continuous flow drier and a bin type batch drier--would be tried. Both would
be husk fired and should be located at an integrated procurement, storage
and milling center. The driers would be simple in design and would cost
about US$55,000 for six units, including services of a representative from
the equipment supplier for three months to supervise assembly and initial
operation.
(f) Training
5.28      Overseas Training.  Overseas training would be provided for 38
persons from AFPTC, for a total of 70 man-months. The program would include
training of:
(a) 15 storage managers in operation and maintenance of mech-
anical flat bulk storage at storage centers in neighboring
countries. They would also be trained in paddy grading;
(b)  four pest control inspectors in ship fumigation; and
(c)  ten other pest control inspectors in fumigation of paddy
stores and rodent control.
Most foreign trained personnel would be required to work at the storage sites
and to provide training, simultaneously, to other AFPTC field staff. Assur-
ances were obtained that by May 1, 1981, for FY81/82 and not later than
April I of the subsequent fiscal year, AFPTC would submit to IDA an annual
plan for overseas training satisfactory to IDA, indicating selected candi-
dates and training facilities; and that personnel trained overseas after
their return would work on the project investments for at least two years
during the remaining project period.
5.29      Local In-Service Training.  Short one to two week courses would
be given by supplier representatives and foreign trained personnel. These
would be on the job courses. About 1,280 participants would be trained through
80 courses, totalling 307 man months. Courses would be held in procurement
and storage centers and no special buildings would be built or set aside for
training, but per diem would be paid. Initially, some godown managers would
be trained in aeration and fumigation at AFPTC owned metal storage bins in
Upper Burma.
(g) Transportation (Rehabilitation of Rice Wagon)
5.30      Rice Wagon Rehabilitation.  Sixty double bogie wagons owned by BRC
would be refitted with vacuum brakes and bearings. The brakes would allow
the wagons to be operated at a higher speed, enabling operation as a unit
train. A fleet of unit trains each consisting of 13 units of 36 ton double
bogie wagons and a guard wagon would be run on a regular schedule between
Rangoon and Thazi/Mandalay. At any time two sets would be running and two
other sets loading. Use of unit trains would increase wagon utilization and
increase reliability of rice transportation to Upper Burma. The wagons would



- 17 -
carry 164,000 tons of rice every year, about 64,000 tons of which are pre-
sently carried by trucks. Since railway is more efficient for long haul, the
unit trains are expected to reduce transportation cost.
5.31      Contractual Agreement.  By July 1, 1981, AFPTC and BRC would sign
an agreement specifying terms and conditions under which the unit trains
would operate and a draft of such an agreement would be sent to IDA, for
comments, at least six weeks before signing. The contract would specify,
inter alia, that:
(a) AFPTC would undertake to:
(i) provide vacuum brakes and bearing lining for 60
wagons at cost price;
(ii)  assure that wagons would be loaded and unloaded only
at Rangoon, Thazi and Mandalay, if the wagons are
presented on time;
(iii) assure that loading and unloading would be done on
time to meet the regular schedule; and
(iv)  pay regular one way freight charge for a fully
loaded unit train from Rangoon to Thazi/Mandalay,
irrespective of actual load.
(b) BRC would undertake to:
(i) fit 60 double bogie wagons (36 tons) with vacuum brakes
and linings and reserve the 60 wagons along with four
guard wagons and three 950 hp engines, solely for the
rice unit train;
(ii)  provide a scheduled rice unit train service with the
highest priority everyday between Rangoon and Thazit
Mandalay;
(iii) present wagons to AFPTC at the scheduled time for
loading and unloading; and
(iv)  maintain the engines and wagons that are reserved
for the unit train and provide adequate and timely
replacement.
(h) Transshipment Store
5.32      A Transshipment Store at Thazi would be provided next to a railway
siding to facilitate unloading from the unit train.  The 3,000 ton store would
be 325 ft long, 50 ft wide, and 20 ft high with 10 ft wide platforms.  The
structural members would be constructed with hardwood if available; otherwise
steel would be used.



- 18 -
(i) Monitoring and Evaluation
5.33      The Planning, Projects and Finance Department (PPF) of AFPTC would
be responsible for monitoring and data collection. The Central Statistical
office (CSO) of the Ministry of Planning and Finance would provide technical
assistance in selecting samples, drawing up forms and questionnaires for
monitoring and data collection and in analyzing and evaluating results. The
CSO would use the Rangoon University computer and the project would provide
computer tape, cards and paper. The quality of paddy in the new stores would
be monitored at regular intervals and compared with the quality of paddy in
a random sample of existing stores in the same area. Godown managers would
be consulted on design and operation of new stores. The drying pilot project
would also receive careful monitoring. Based on information obtained from
monitoring and evaluation, necessary design and procedural changes would be
made during project implementation.
5.34      Project evaluation would be the responsibility of GOB's Project
Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department (PAPRD). This department also
monitors projects and would advise the projects department of the AFPTC
to ensure that the data collected are consistent in form and relevant to
the needs of PAPRD for evaluation purposes. The assurance was given that
PAPRD would prepare a draft Project Completion Report in conjunction
with AFPTC staff.
(j) Technical Assistance
5.35      Engineering Consultants.  Technical assistance under the project
would provide for a total of 30 man-months of engineering specialists in the
areas of structural and mechanical engineering. The structural engineering
specialist would be an individual with extensive experience in the practical
design and construction of superstructures. The mechanical engineer would
be an individual with extensive experience in the design, installation and
operation of mechanical grain handling systems. The specialists would be
employed by GOB and would assist AFPTC and coordinate with CC during the first
phase of project implementation relating to site selection, preparation of
detailed designs and specifications, and adaption of designs to local condi-
tions and sites. They would also assist in the preparation of tender docu-
ments, specifications and bid evaluations and help supervise the construction
of the first prefabricated steel godowns as well as the installation and test
operation of mechanical equipment in storage depots. Draft terms of reference
for engineering specialists agreed upon at negotiations have been attached to
this report (Annex 8). The assurance was obtained that by July 1, 1981, the
two engineering consultants would be engaged by AFPTC. The total cost for
30 man-months of technical assistance, estimated at about US$300,000, has
been calculated on the basis of a man-month cost of US$10,000 including travel,
subsistance and allowances.
Project Costs and Financing
5.36      Project Costs.  The estimated total project cost excluding duties
and taxes is US$30.3 M (K 200.4 M equivalent) of which 38% is in foreign
exchange (Table 5.2). Duties and taxes are estimated at US$8.7 M (K 57.7 M).



- 19 -
Detailed cost estimates for the individual project components are shown in
Annex 1. The cost of imported prefabricated structures and associated
equipment are based on July 1980 quotations. Local costs are based on mid-
1980 prices in Burma.  For civil works, quantity estimates provided by the
Construction Corporation were reviewed and found reasonable, considering the
quality of local materials and the productivity of local workers. Physical
contingencies for civil works and equipment for new storage transshipment
store and jetty and storage rehabilitation are estimated at 15%, 5% for other
cost items. Price contingencies for local cost items are based on an esti-
mated annual inflation rate of 8% and for imported items, an expected annual
international price trend of 10.5% during 1980, 9% during 1981, 8% during
1982 and 7% during 1983-85. Total physical contingencies amount to 14.5%
of base cost, and price contingencies to 31.1%.
5.37      Financing.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$23.0 M would finance
foreign exchange cost of US$11.6 M equivalent and US$11.4 M or about 61% of
US$18.7 M in local costs net of duties and taxes. The financing ratio would
be about 75% of the project costs net of duties and taxes, and 59%.of the cost
including duties and taxes. The remaining US$16.1 M in local costs, which
includes US$8.7 M in duties and taxes, would be financed by GOB/AFPTC out
of its own resources. GOB would onlend the entire proceeds of the IDA credit,
K 151.8 M to AFPTC for a period of 20 years including 3.5 years grace for
principal, at 9% interest, with GOB bearing the foreign exchange risk.



- 20 -
Table 5.2: Summary Cost Estimate
Percent
of Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total   Cost
----M of Kyats---        -'00  of US$----
New Storage Construction
Storage Shell, prefab         6.5    8.9   15.4        985   1,348   2,333   8.7
Equipment                    21.9   30.2   52.1   3,318   4,576   7,894  29.4
Civil Works                  86.7    5.5   92.2  13,136        833  13,970  52.0
Subtotal                115.1   44.6  159.7  17,440   6,757  24,197  90.2
Paddy Procurement and
Storage Management
Storage and Jetty
Rehabilitation               6.1    2.4    8.5       921      358   1,280   4.8
Grading and Storage
Management                    0.1    0.4    0.5        14       59       73   0.3
Drying Pilot Project          0.2    0.4    0.6         30       58      88   0.3
Pest Control                  0.1    0.2    0.3          4       36      40   0.1
Training                      0.1    1.1    1.2          5      174     179   0.7
Monitoring & Evaluation       0.3    0.0    0.3         36        5      41   0.1
Subtotal                  6.9    4.6   10.4   1,010        690   1,701   6.3
Transport
Rice Wagon Rehabilitation   0.4    1.0    1.4           70     140      210   0.8
Transshipment Store           1.9    0.8    2.7        287      129     416   1.6
Subtotal                  2.4    1.7    4.1       357      269      626   2.3
Technical Assistance             -     2.0    2.0        -       300     300
Total Project Cost
Base Cost                   124.1   53.0  177.1  18,806   8,017  26,824 100.0
Physical Contingency         18.5    7.3   25.8   2,802   1,104   3,906  14.6
Price Contingency            38.7   16.5   55.2   5,869   2,493   8,362  31.2
Total Cost              181.3   76.8  258.1  27,477  11,614  39,092 145.7
Duties/Taxes                  57.7    -       57.7   8,742       -     8,742  32.5
Total Cost excluding
Duties and Taxes           123.6   76.8  200.4  18,735  11,614  30,350 113.1



- 21 -
Given an average domestic inflation rate of about 5% annually from 1976-79
and a projected inflation rate of about 8% annually over the next three years,
this would be a positive interest rate and in line with GOB lending rates for
State Corporations. The balance of project costs amounting to K 106.3 M would
be met by AFPTC from self generated funds. During negotiations, financing
arrangements were discussed with GOB. It was agreed that the execution and
delivery of a relending agreement between GOB and AFPTC would be a condition
of credit effectiveness.
Procurement
5.38      The prefabricated storage shells and equipment for the new storage
component (i.e., aeration systems, mechanical handling and precleaning equip-
ment, diesel generators and temperature monitoring devices), the procurement
and storage management equipment, the supplies for railway wagon rehabilita-
tion and the steel structures for the transshipment store of a combined value
of US$5.9 M (net of contingencies, duties and taxes) would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 c.i.f.
and not exceeding the equivalent of US$300,000 in the aggregate which are
not suitable for ICB would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. The engineering consultants
(US$0.3 M) would be internationally recruited and the overseas training
(US$0.2 M) arranged on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
5.39      Timber for new storage construction costing about US$2.3 M (net of
contingencies) would be procured by CC as part of the contract between CC
and AFPTC (para 5.40) under procedures and prices fixed by the government.
5.40      The construction of new storage foundations, the erection of timber
storage structures, the assembly of prefabricated structures and the construc-
tion of the transshipment store for rice, costing about US$14.0 M would be
labor intensive and scattered at about 20 sites in rural areas in the Delta
and spread over a three-year period. The work would not be suitable for ICB.
The Construction Corporation, a government-owned corporation, is the only
agency with sufficient construction experience in the Delta area. AFPTC would
therefore enter into contractual agreements with CC, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, to construct the new stores. Following normal GOB proce-
dures all imported materials required for the construction of stores would,
however, be procured by AFPTC and supplied to CC. Individual contracts would
cover one or more stores depending on location, type and time schedule for
construction. The assurance was given at negotiations that AFPTC would fur-
nish IDA with draft contracts no later than six weeks prior to the date of
signing of such contracts. The rehabilitation of jetties and godowns and the
installation of equipment in new stores would be carried out by force account
by AFPTC.
Disbursement
5.41.     The disbursement of the IDA credit of US$23.0 M would be as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
including prefabricated storage shell for new construction
(US$10.56 M);



- 22 -
(b) 55% of local expenditures for civil works or for locally
procured items not included in (c) (US$11.77 M); and
(c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training,
monitoring and evaluation (US$0.67 M).
5.42      Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented. As agreed at the negotiations, AFPTC would provide full documenta-
tion for expenditures related to civil works carried out by force account.
Each claim under civil works for the storage components would be substantiated
by a copy of the work completion certificate prepared by CC and approved by
the DGM Projects of AFPTC.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Burmese Corporate System
6.01      Most of the agencies to be involved in project implementation are
GOB owned corporations such as AFPTC and CC. These corporations are operating
under revised guidelines for State Economic Enterprises (SEE) issued in May
1975, which increased their financial and operational autonomy, allowed use
of incentives to encourage better performance, and acknowledged that SEEs
should make profits. In practice, however, the corporations are still
centrally directed. The ministries fix production targets, approve invest-
ment decisions and annual budgets. By controlling prices of many of the
locally produced inputs as well as outputs, the GOB plays a crucial role in
determining the profitability of SEEs.
6.02      Organizational Structure.  Most GOB corporations are adopting a
matrix organization with considerable geographic autonomy. Both AFPTC and
CC now have divisional, consolidated township and township managers. This
move makes sense, given the communication problems and the need to coordinate
across corporate and divisional lines.  However, it raises some problems
since the autonomy makes quality control difficult for the more technically
oriented corporations such as CC. CC has dealt with this problem in the case
of its larger location specific projects, by forming special project units
under central control and supervision--an approach which would also be
adopted for the civil works construction activities under the proposed
project.
The Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC)
6.03      Overview.  The AFPTC is responsible for procuring, storing and
processing certain controlled agricultural commodities such as paddy, beans
and pulses. As a marketing organization, it is under the direction of the
Ministry of Trade. The Corporation is headed by a Managing Director (MD) and
is directed by a Board of Management. The MD supervises 13 regional and 8
functional departments. Though this large span of control forces a high
degree of delegation of authority, it also reduces access of some managers
to the MD. AFPTC is considering divesting its operations in the paddy deficit
regions, and concentrating its operations in the proposed project area and a
few other paddy surplus divisions.



- 23 -
6.04      Project Organization.  The project components fall within the
jurisdiction of three existing functional departments (Annex 6, Charts 1-4).
They are:
(a) Planning, Projects and Finance (PPF);
(b) Procurement and Sales I (Paddy/Rice) (PAS); and
(c) Transport and Handling (TD).
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a Project Director would be
established under the DGM Projects of PPF. A Storage Maintenance Unit was
established in 1978 in PPF and a Quality Control Unit was recently set up in
PAS. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the three units would be
adequately staffed and headed by personnel whose experience is satisfactory
to IDA. It was agreed during negotiations that the establishment of PIU would
be a condition of effectiveness.
The Construction Corporation (CC)
6.05      The CC would not be a direct project beneficiary nor a sub-borrower.
However, coordination of its organization and implementation capacity would be
essential to establishing a feasible project implementation rate. Such an
evaluation (Annex 7) shows that:
(a) The present staffing of CC is adequate for its workload;
(b) the proposed project civil works would form about 7%
of CC's workload and would therefore require only modest
growth of CC's staff; and
(c) the quality of CC's works has been mixed, with the better
quality job done when works are managed centrally.
6.06      CC would carry out new store construction under contracts with AFPTC
(para 5.40). A Project Coordinator would be assigned the responsibility for
coordinating all aspects of the civil works pertaining to the construction of
new storage (including the transshipment store for rice) within CC and between
AFPTC and CC. It was agreed during negotiations that the appointment of such
a Project Coordinator would be a condition of effectiveness.
Project Implementation
6.07      Project Responsibilities.  The AFPTC, as the beneficiary, would be
the main executing agency and CC would be the main construction contractor.
Responsibilities for the project within the AFPTC would be as follows:
(a) Under DGM projects of PPF the Project Director of the PIU
would be responsible for the implementation of the new stor-
age construction, rehabilitation and pilot drying programs
including procurement, training programs, monitoring and
reporting as well as for the operation of project godowns
once they are completed.



- 24 -
(b) The Quality Control Unit of PAS would be responsible for the
review of paddy grading criteria (para 5.22) and the monitor-
ing of quality of paddy in new stores.
(c) The Storage Maintenance Unit of PPF would be responsible for
the maintenance of stores, constructed or rehabilitated under
the project.
(d) TD (with increased responsibilities) would be responsible for
rice transshipment stores, movement coordination and planning,
including contract supervision for the unit train, ship and
transit storage fumigation, the coordination and implementa-
tion of the pest control program.
An assurance was given at negotiations that by May 1, 1981, the responsibil-
ities of TD would be extended to include operation and fumigation of rice
transshipment stores, fumigation of ships, coordination and planning of water
and land transportation of paddy, including contract supervision for the
operation of the rice unit train and the coordination and implementation of
the pest control program.
6.08      Within the CC, a Project Coordinator would have the responsibility
for coordinating civil works aspects of new storage construction (para 6.06).
The Project Director of PIU of AFPTC, and the Project Coordinator within
CC would together ensure close coordination of the activities of their
organizations.
6.09      The General Manager of the traffic department of BRC would ensure
the timely rehabilitation of wagons and the scheduling of the unit train,
in accordance with a contract between AFPTC and BRC (para 5.31).
Project Coordination Committee
6.10      In order to ensure effective coordination in the implementation
of the Project, a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established
under the Deputy Minister of Trade and with membership from the Ministry of
Planning and Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, the Construction
Corporation, AFPTC and other selected government agencies. It was agreed
at negotiations that the establishment of PCC would be a condition of
effectiveness.
Implementation Schedule
6.11      The shortage of quality storage is critical; therefore, no time
should be lost in implementing the project. To ensure timely delivery of
imported prefabricated structures, mechanical handling, precleaning and
aeration equipment, it would be desirable for early preparation of draft
tender documents. At negotiation, an understanding was reached on the first
year's implementation program. If implemented according to the postulated
schedule (Annex 6, Chart 6), the project would be completed by September 1984.



- 25 -
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
6.12      All GOB departments and corporations are required to prepare an
annual budget for approval by their Ministry and then by the Finance Ministry,
the Economic Committee, and the Cabinet. Even though a project may have been
approved, and foreign financing assured, a corporation may not be able to
implement the project if the required expenditures exceed the budgeted expendi-
ture. The budget revision procedure is time-consuming. Consequently, some
IDA assisted projects have suffered delays. An assurance was given that by
August 31 each year, the draft project budget and implementation plan for
the ensuing fiscal year would be sent to IDA for review. This arrangement
would give IDA the opportunity to assess the adequacy of financial provisions
in advance of the start of the fiscal year, and the opportunity of bringing
to the notice of GOB any comments it might have.
6.13      AFPTC maintains accounts according to procedures and forms specified
by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Separate accounts are kept for each
township, Division and State office and for each department of AFPTC. An
assurance was obtained that separate accounts for the proposed project would
be kept.
6.14      The budgetary control on each account is maintained through a pre-
audit of any proposed expenditure. Expenditures beyond budget allocations
cannot be made. The procedure does not allow a corporation to accelerate
project implementation without a time consuming supplementary budget procedure.
This re-emphasizes the importance of careful monitoring of annual project
budgets.
6.15.     The Central Accounts Office (CAO), acting on behalf of the Council
of People's Inspectors, is responsible for auditing government agency accounts,
including AFPTC's accounts, and would be acceptable to IDA as an independent
auditor. Assurances were obtained from GOB and AFPTC that IDA would be provided
with a set of unaudited financial statements within four months from the end
of each fiscal year, and with the audited financial statements, together with
the auditors' report, within nine months from the end of each fiscal year.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Financial Impact
7.01      It is estimated that by 1985 the annual quantitative storage losses
(para 8.02) saved by the new storage constructed under the project would
amount to 4,000 tons at a financial value of K 20.7 M (US$4.5 M).  The new
storage would further prevent annual qualitative storage losses at a financial
value of K 22.5 M (US$3.4 M). 1/
1/   Quantitative and qualitative loss rates "with" and "without" project
are shown in Annex 3, Table 4 p. 2 and further discussed in para 8.02.
The basis for financial values of losses is discussed in Annex 2,
Table 4, footnote 4.



- 26 -
7.02      During 1984-87, the rehabilitation of stores and jetties, along
with improved pest control, would save about 8,000 tons of paddy worth K 6.0 M
annually from birds and rodents, and about 1,200 tons of paddy worth K 1.0 M
from yellowing. Annual net savings from this rehabilitation work would amount
to about K 6.0 M.
7.03      Rehabilitation of rice wagons would enable BRC to operate a fleet
of unit trains to carry about 160,000 tons of rice per annum to Upper Burma.
Between 1984-88, AFPTC would be able to shift about 64,000 tons of rice
annually from road to rail transport, resulting in annual net savings of about
K 8.0 M. In addition, a regular and speedier rice movement would allow AFPTC
and retail cooperatives to reduce rice stores and storage costs. The BRC
would earn an estimated K 3.6 M annually for carrying additional 64,000 tons
of rice. Since the unit train format would increase capacity utilization of
existing rolling stock, the additional investment of about K 1.3 M would be
amortized in less than six months.
7.04      GOB would receive about K 57 M in duties and taxes on project
investments as transfer payments from AFPTC and CC.
Financial Rate of Return
7.05      The financial rate of return (FRR) to AFPTC on all project invest-
ments would be about 21%. With FRRs of 15.5% and 11.1% respectively for
project investments in new storage units (5,000 ton capacity) of timber
and prefabricated steel (Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5) a 14% FRR is expected on
the new storage component. Due to high sunk cost in existing stores and
railway wagons, the FRR to rehabilitation investments would be more than
50% (Table 7.1).
Table 7.1: The Financial Rates of Return
Financial
Total Project                            21%
New Stores Only                          14%
Wagon Rehabilitation                     50%
Storage Rehabilitation                   50%
Financial Structure of the AFPTC
7.06      The AFPTC, like all other Government owned corporations, achieved
financial independence only recently with the implementation of the 1975
guidelines (para 6.01). Prior to FY76/77, the AFPTC's capital was part
of the Union Government Consolidated Fund (UGCF) and the AFPTC's accounts
were maintained by the Ministry of Trade. Drawings from the UGCF were con-
verted to GOB capital as follows:
Payables to Government                             Kyat M
UGCF 1st drawing (prior to March 31, 1975)          6,055
Working Capital (prior to March 31, 1975)           1,595
Total                 7,640



- 27 -
Receivables from Government (Ministry of Trade)
Prior to March 31, 1975                             5,939
Net Payable (Government Equity)   1,701
Through current account adjustments in FY78/79, GOB equity has been reduced
further to K 1,601 M. This figure is used in subsequent financial projections.
7.07      While the K 1,601 M is termed GOB equity, GOB reserves the right to
request its repayment, although no terms of repayment have been stated. In
projecting AFPTC's balance sheet, receivables accruing to AFPTC subsequently
to March 31, 1975, have been discounted by 50% since in the mission's view
their value is excessive (Table 7.2).
Table 7.2: Summary Balance Sheet for the AFPTC
(Million of Kyats)
Historic                  Projected
Assets                          1976/77    1977/78        1979/80    1983/84
Cash                               547        596            413         280
Inventory                       1,426       1,043          1,371       1,605
Receivables                        902      1,014            496         581
Net Fixed Assets                    58        115            107         318
Total Assets               2,933       2,768          2,381       2,784
Liabilities
Current Liability                  569        314            344         394
Long Term Debt                     515        496            396         348
Equity                           1,849      1,958          1,641       2,042
Total Liabilities          2,933       2,768          2,381       2,784
Indices
Current Ratio (times)              5.1       8.4             6.6         6.3
Debt/Equity Ratio               0.28/1.0  0.25/1.0        0.24/1.0   0.17/1.0
Debt Service Coverage (times)    1.3         4.3 (2.6) /a   2.2          2.1
Cash/Revenue (months)              3.3       3.1             2.1         1.2
Inventory/COM (months)            11.8       8.0            10.0        10.0
Receivable/Revenue (months)        5.4       5.3             2.5         2.5
/a   Excluding bottom line adjustment of K 78 M.
7.08      As of 1977/78, long term debts totaling K 496 M include loans from
GOB (working capital) advanced to the AFPTC under the commercialization
guidelines amounting to K 445 M, an ADB loan of K 23 M, and funds borrowed
from local banks to cover local costs of the ongoing ADB project totalling
K 28 M. Long term debts show a declining trend, despite new borrowings of
about K 152 M under the proposed project,-because of substantial repayments
of GOB loans amounting to about K 50 M per year (Annex 2, Table 2).



- 28 -
7.09      The indices show high inventory and cash levels.  The high inventory
level is unavoidable, considering that Burma effectively has only one crop of
paddy, 90% of which is procured in the last quarter of the fiscal year. The
recent high liquidity, involving cash equivalent to more than three months
revenue, was due to the AFPTC winding up a short-term agricultural credit
operation and to the shortfall in procurement during 1977/78. A large portion
of this cash should be absorbed by the expected higher inventories of future
years.
7.10      AFPTC's finances over the project period appear satisfactory.  With-
out further finance obtained from other sources, AFPTC's already low debt/
equity ratio of about 0.25/1.0 would decline to about 0.14/1.0 by 1983/84.
This indicates AFPTC's capacity to absorb a much higher level of long-term
debt such as the potential ADB and Japanese loans for investments in rice
milling and river transportation.
Profitability of the AFPTC
7.11      Paddy/Rice account for more than 90% of the AFPTC's procurement and
export volume. Prices of the AFPTC's major input (paddy) and output (rice)
are determined by GOB. Therefore, the profitability of the corporation is,
to a large extent, controlled by GOB. The AFPTC's income has been projected
at constant prices and is summarized in Table 7.3 below:
Table 7.3: Summary Income Statements of the AFPTC
(Millions of Kyats)
Historic                  Projected
1976/77    1977/78 /a    1979/80    1983/84
Revenue                     2,005      2,293          2,385       2,793
Expenditure                 1,940       2,090          2,271      2,668
Net Income (after Taxes)       65         203 (125)      114         125
Income Margin (%)             3.2         8.9 (5.5)     4.8         4.5
Return on Equity (%)          3.5        10.4 (6.4)      6.9        6.1
/a   Figures in (  ) exclude bottomline adjustment of K 78 M.
7.12      Due to low depreciation charges, incomes in previous years were
somewhat overstated. Most of the AFPTC's fixed assets are very old, a
reflection of inadequate levels of investment in the past. These assets
have not been revalued and, therefore, depreciation charges are low. As the
AFPTC accelerates investments, more realistic depreciation charges would
slightly reduce the income margin (Table 7.3).
7.13      The calculation of milling, transport, and trade margins undertaken
in connection with this project reveal an implicit subsidy on domestic rice
distribution. This implicit subsidy is difficult to quantify but much of
it is being paid by the private and public owners of storage, milling, and
transport facilities who do not receive enough income from AFPTC to cover
their capital costs. Thus, AFPTC is able to maintain its financial viability,
as shown in Table 7.3, at the expense of maintenance and replacement of many



- 29 -
of the existing fixed assets which it commissions for services. The project
addresses this problem as it relates to storage, which constitutes 90% of
the activities financed under the project, by requesting an assurance for the
doubling of rental payments for existing storage (para 5.19). This extra
payment would cover the cost of rehabilitating these stores.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
8.01      The project would enhance the capability of AFPTC to expand its
paddy procurement in accordance with GOB policy and targets. This would be
accomplished primarily through the provision of additional storage for paddy.
Programs for rehabilitating existing permanent godowns and transport facili-
ties and four upgrading procurement and storage management would contribute
towards the same overall objective. An enhanced procurement capability of
AFPTC would in turn increase export earnings from rice which in the long run
would induce farmers to increase their production of paddy. As such it would
be expected to have a positive effect on future incomes of farmers as well as
on procurement of paddy. Specifically, the individual project components
would provide the following benefits.
8.02      Reduction of Paddy Storage Losses.  Benefits would accrue to AFPTC
primarily in the form of reduced storage losses of paddy. The construction
of new permanent godowns would result in a decrease in quantitative and quali-
tative losses of paddy (Annex 3, Table 4). Quantitative losses would be
reduced from 2.5% to 0.6% over the average storage period by providing for
more effective prevention of access by rodents or birds to stored paddy.
At full development, qualitative losses would be reduced from 9.5% to 0.8%
for the average storage period resulting from the elimination of excessive
yellowing of paddy from heating through the use of aeration systems. Pro-
grams for improved grading and storage management (including pest control)
would also contribute towards reducing qualitative losses and enhancing the
export value of rice.
8.03       It is estimated that by 1985 the annual quantitative storage losses
prevented by the provision of 100,000 tons additional storage would amount
to 4,000 tons at an economic value of K 5.3 M (US$0.8 M). Annual qualitative
losses saved under the project when fully implemented would amount to K 28.4 M
(US$4.3 M) equivalent to 17,000 tons in quantitative losses. The basis for
estimating reductions in storage losses from the new storage component is
explained in Annex 3 (pp. 1-6). The program for rehabilitation of godowns
under the project would, by 1985, have upgraded existing paddy storage facil-
ities of a capacity of 500,000 tons. The annual reductions in storage losses
from this program are estimated to be K 7.8 M (US$1.2 M) by 1985. 1/
8.04       Transport Cost Savings.  Rehabilitation of rice wagons and the con-
struction of a transshipment store at Thazi would contribute net savings of
1/   The effects of rehabilitation would diminish after four to five years of
operation.



- 30 -
K 4.7 M (US$0.7 M) per year from 1982-86. 1/ In addition the locations of
the new stores would help to reduce uneconomic transport of paddy (para 3.17)
and thus result in indirect savings of transportation costs.
8.05      Employment Benefits.  At full development the project would offer
additional job opportunities to about 250 pest control inspectors, mechanics
and aeration equipment operators. During construction of godowns (1981-84)
the equivalent of about 178 man-years of skilled labor (masons, blacksmiths,
carpenters) and of about 600 man-years of semi-skilled workers would be
employed.
8.06      Foreign Exchange Impact.  From 1985 onwards, Burma would earn
K 44.9 M (US$6.8 M) per year in foreign exchange from incremental rice exports
made available through a reduction in storage losses. The annual cost of
importing spares for prefabricated godowns and aeration equipment would be
about K 1.3 M (US$0.2 M), giving a net foreign exchange benefit of K 43.6 M
(US$6.6 M) per year.
8.07      Other Benefits.  To the extent that the new storage facilities
will be integrated with rice mills, they will be partly used for short-term
storage of bagged rice. Economic benefits from the utilization of project
storage for storage of rice would be expected to occur in the form of reduced
storage costs (including storage losses). Other benefits that have not been
quantified relate to training, infrastructural improvements, investments in
equipment for grading, and a paddy drying pilot project. By providing improved
storage management and thus being instrumental in the reduction of storage
losses, these components would form an essential part of the project. Second-
ary benefits from these investments would be a gradual quality improvement of
Burmese rice which would help secure export markets for the country's paddy
producers. Overseas training would be provided for 38 AF-PTC staff members
and about 1,280 participants would attend local in-service training. The
local training program would also include staff of the existing 500 paddy
procurement centers and help to improve procurement and grading practics
countrywide.
Economic Analysis
8.08      Economic costs and benefit values have been calculated at estimated
border prices. Prices of internationally traded goods have been converted at
the official exchange rate. For calculating the economic value of non-traded
goods including unskilled labor a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.8 has been
applied. 2/
1/   The effects of rehabilitation would diminish after four to five years of
operation.
2/   SCF is estimated by the ratio between the value of all traded goods in
border prices and their value in local prices, and is calculated as
follows:
SCF =          X + M
X + S  -t  + M + t
x    x        m
where X = export (f.o.b.), M = import (c.i.f.), S  = export subsidy,
t  = import duties, t  = export taxes.



- 31 -
8.09      For the new storage component, economic investment and operating
costs are expressed in mid-1980 constant Burmese Kyats. For all other compon-
ents costs are expressed in July 1979 constant Kyats. Skilled labor is priced
at its financial price and unskilled labor is shadow priced using a conver-
sion factor of 0.63. This appears justified since construction work would
seasonally compete with agricultural operations where labor is offered
K 9-10/day vs K 12/day in construction (9.5/12 x 0.8 = 0.63). All costs
include physical contingencies at a rate of 15% for civil works and equipment
for new storage and 5% for other items.
8.10      The economic value of paddy that would be saved by the project is
estimated on the basis of the IBRD projected export price of rice for 1990.
The procedures used in estimating the value of paddy and calculating the
storage losses "with" and "without" the project are shown in Annex 3 (pp. 1-6,
and Tables 4 and 5).
8.11      The economic analysis of project components, details of which are
given in Annex 3 is summarized in Table 8.2 below. The estimated economic
rate of return (ERR) is 28% for the new storage component, which represents
90% of project cost. The ERRs for the individual storage depots of 5,000
tons capacity are 29.4% for the timber godown and 23% for the prefabricated
steel godown. For the total project, including rehabilitation measures the
ERR is about 29%.
Table 8.1: Economic Analysis of Project Components
Percent of Economic Rates
Components                Base Cost   of Return in %
New Storage Construction          90.3             28
Storage Rehabilitation             3.7             50
Rice Wagon Rehabilitation
and Transshipment Store          2.3            50
Other Components                   3.7      not quantified
Total Project                    100.0             29
Sensitivity Analysis
8.12      The economic rate of return is not very sensitive to delays in
realizing the benefits. Even if benefit streams are lagged by three full
years, ERR is reduced only to 16.8% for the new storage component. Switching
values have been calculated to determine the sensitivity of major cost and
benefit components. The percentage changes in costs or benefits that would
have to occur before ERR is reduced to the opportunity cost of capital (12%)
are shown in Table 8.2.  The analysis shows that ERR is relatively insensitive
to changes in investment and operating costs and moderately sensitive to a
decrease in the benefits from reduced storage losses.



- 32 -
Table 8.2: Sensitivity Analysis
Percent of PV of    Switching Value with
Benefit or Cost      Opportunity Cost of
Stream (12%)          Capital = 12%
Benefits
Savings in Storage Losses            100.0                    -52.7
Costs (incremental)
Investment Costs                      88.8                    125.5
Operating Costs (incremental)         11.2                    999.9
Total Costs                     100.0                    111.5
8.13      The savings in storage losses could be lower than expected for
several reasons. Capacity utilization in project storage may, for example,
be lower than anticipated. As indicated in Annex 3 "Basis for Calculating
Storage Losses in New Project Storage," the economic analysis is based on a
conservative estimate of paddy moved through project storage. Given that the
project meets less than 50% of the projected additional storage requirements
for the area (para 4.07) the chances of underutilizing project storage are
minimal. Savings in storage losses could also fall short of expectations
because of too high storage losses in temporary storage, i.e., an improvement
of the "without project" situation. Special care has therefore been taken
to arrive at estimates for losses in temporary storage. Furthermore, the
assumption that paddy moved through project storage would be stored entirely
in temporary godowns were the permanent godowns not to be constructed is in
itself giving a downward bias to the loss rates under a "without project"
situation. Because of the shortage of storage relative to procurement, paddy
has, in the past, to an extent, been kept in open storage. This practice
would likely continue were the permanent storage facilities not to be expanded.
8.14      The most important factors affecting project risk would be related
to weather conditions in project area, shortage of construction materials,
CC's workload and procurement delays. The project addresses the latter two
factors by establishing a PIU in AFPTC (para 6.04) and a Project Coordinator
in CC (para 6.06). Furthermore AFPTC would enter into contractual agreements
with CC in order to implement construction of new stores according to schedule
(para 5.40).
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a)  In the event agreed locations for the stores to be constructed
were to be changed during project implementation IDA would be
advised of such changes prior to commencement of construction
(para 5.15);



- 33 -
(b) Before January 31, 1982, the AFPTC would furnish IDA with its
review and recommendations for revision of its paddy grading
criteria (para 5.22);
(c) By May 1, 1981, at least one pest control squad would be
stationed in each of the 14 consolidated townships in the
project area, and by June 1, 1982, additional squads
would be stationed in those consolidated townships (para
5.25);
(d) By May 1, 1981, for FY81/82 and not later than April 1 of
each subsequent financial year, AFPTC would submit to IDA an
annual plan satisfactory to IDA for overseas training, indi-
cating selected candidates and training facilities. Personnel
returning from overseas training would work on the project
investments for the remaining project period and simultaneously
train others (para 5.28);
(e) By July 1, 1981, AFPTC and BRC would sign an agreement speci-
fying terms and conditions under which the unit train would
operate and a draft of such an agreement would be sent to
IDA for comments at least six weeks before signing (para 5.31);
(f) AFPTC in collaboration with PAPRD would prepare a Draft Project
Completion Report (para 5.34);
(g) By July 1, 1981, engineering consultants would be engaged by
AFPTC on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 5.35);
(h) AFPTC would enter into contractual arrangements with CC, upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to construct the
new storage facilities under the project and to furnish drafts
of such contracts for IDA review not later than six weeks prior
to the signing of contracts (para 5.40);
(i) By May 1, 1981, responsibilities of TD would be extended to
include the functions described in para 6.07;
(j) Before August 31 of each year, the draft project budget and
implementation plan for each ensuing fiscal year would be
sent to IDA for review (para 6.12);
(k) Project accounts would be maintained separately and would
be audited by CAO (para 6.15); and
(1) AFPTC would provide pre-audited financial statements within
four months from the end of each fiscal year, followed by
audited statements and the auditors' report, within nine
months from the end of the fiscal year (para 6.14).



- 34 -
9.02      Agreed conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  The establishment of a Project Coordination Committee, chaired
by the Deputy Minister of Trade (para 6.10);
(b)  The establishment within AFPTC of an adequately staffed
Project Implementation Unit headed by a Project Director
with qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 6.04);
(c)  The assignment within CC of the responsibilities for coor-
dination of all aspects of civil works pertaining to
construction of new stores under the project to a Project
Coordinator (para 6.06); and
(d)  The execution and delivery of the relending agreement (Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement) between GOB and AFPTC (para 5.37).
9.03      With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be suit-
able for an IDA credit of US$23.0 M to GOB on standard IDA terms.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Project Cost
List of Tables on Project Cost
Table 1     Phasing of Project Cost
Table 2     Summary of Contingencies and Taxes
Table 3     New Storage Phasing and Cost Estimates
Table 4     Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Timber Version,
Financial and Economic Investment Costs - Summary
Table 5     Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Prefabricated Steel Version,
Financial and Economic Investment Cost - Summary
Table 6     Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Financial and Economic
Investment Costs of Mechanical Handling Equipment
Table 7     Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Timber Version,
Financial and Economic Investment Costs of Substructure
Table 8     Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T)-Prefabricated Steel Version,
Financial and Economic Investment Costs of Substructure
Table 9     Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Timber Version,
Financial and Economic Investment Costs of Superstructure
Table 10    Financial and Economic Operating Cost per Year
Project and Temporary Godowns of 5,000 T
Table 11    Rehabilitation of Jetties and Godowns - Phasing of Costs
Table 12    Rehabilitation Cost Jetties and AFPTC Owned Godowns
Table 13    Cost of Equipment for Grading and Pest Control
Table 14    Cost of Drying Pilot Project
Table 15    Unit Cost of Mechanical Paddy Driers
Table 16    Wagon Rehabilitation for Rice Unit Train - Phasing of Costs
Table 17    Costs of Transshipment Storage for Rice in Bags
Table 18    Overseas and In-service Training Cost - Phasing Costs
Table 19    Cost of Training Program
Table 20    Cost of Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 21    Comparative Financial Costs of Recently Constructed or
Estimated Warehouses in South Asia Region



36-                                    ANNEX 1
Table 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Phasing of Proiect Cost
(1,000 Kyats)
Total       %
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3        Cost      F.E.
1. New Storage Construction
Base Cost                              44,508      56,464      58,733      159,705      28
Physical Contingency                    6,676       8,469       8,809       23,954      28
Price Contingency                       8,800      17,191      24,541       50,532      28
Total Cost                          59,984      82,124      92,083     234,191      28
2.  Storage and Jetty Rehabilitation
Base Cost                               1,527       2,673       4,247        8,447      28
Physical Contingency                      229         400         637        1,266      28
Price Contingency                         300         811       1,763        2,874      28
Total Cost                           2.056       3,884       6,647       12,587     28
3. Grading and Storage Management
Base Cost                                 479           -           -          479      82
Physical Contingency                       24           -           -           24      82
Price Contingency                          94           -           -           94      82
Total Cost                             597           -           -          597     82
4. Drying Pilot Project
Base Cost                                   -         498          81          579      66
Physical Contingency                        -          25           4           29      66
Price Contingency                           -         143          31          173      66
Total Cost                               -         665         116          781     66
5. Pest Control
Base Cost                                 265           -           -          265      91
Physical Contingency                       13           -           -           13      91
Price Contingency                          53           -           -           53      91
Total Cost                             331           -           -          331     91
6. Training
Base Cost                                 621         561           -        1,182      97
Physical Contingency                        -           -           -            -     97
Price Contingency                         119         157           -          276      97
Total Cost                             740         718           -        1,458     97
7. Monitoring and Evaluation
Base Cost                                   71        100         100          271      13
Physical Contingency                        4           5           5           14      13
Price Contingency                          12          27          38           77      13
Total Cost                              87         132         143          362     13
8. Rice Wagon Rehabilitation and
Transshipment Store
Base Cost                               1,349       2,785           -        4,134      43
Physical Contingency                       67         413           -          480      36
Price Contingency                         259         849           -        1,108      39
Total Cost                           1,675       4,047           -        5,722     42
9.  Technical Assistance                    1,336         664           -        1,980    100
10. TOTAL PROJECT
Base Cost                              50,156      63,725      63,161      177,042      30
Physical Contingency                    7,013       9,312       9,455       25,780      30
Price Contingency                       9,637      19,178      26,373       55,188      30
GRAND TOTAL                         66,806      92,215     98,989      258,010       30
November 21, 1980



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Summary of Contingencies and Taxes
(1,000 Kyats)
Physical Contingency-           Price Continge 2c/-       Duties/
New Storage                   Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign   Total   Taxes
- Storage shell,
prefabricated steel         969      1,338      2,307    2,436       3,365   5,801   8,468
- Equipment                    3,284     4,536      7,820    6,982       9,642  16,624  16,407
- Civil Works                12,997        830    13,827   26,421        1686  28,107  28,052
Sub - Total   17,250      6,704    23,954   35,839       14,693  50,532  52,927
Paddy Procurement and
Storage Manangement
- Storage and Jetty
Rehab.                      912        354      1,266    2,069         805   2,874   3,053
- Grading and Storage
Management                     4        20         24       17          77       94       78
- Drying Pilot Project            10        19         29        59        114      174       45
- Pest Control                     1        12         13         5         48       53       22
- Training                         -         -          -         -        268      276        -
- Monitoring and Evaluation       12         2         13        67         10       77       17
Sub - Total       938       407      1,345    2,225       1,323   3,548   3,215
Transport
- Rice Wagon Rehab.               22        45          67       92         179     271      543
- Transshipment Store            284       127         411      578         259     837   1,011
Sub - Total       306       172         478      670        438   1,108   1,554
TOTAL         18,493      7,284    25,777   38,734       16,453  55,187  57,696
1/  Physical contingencies are 15% for the new storage construction and the
transshipment and storage and jetty rehabilitation components; 5% for all other
components.
2/ For details see Annex 1, Table 3,-footnote 3.
November 21, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
New Storare
Phasing snd Cost Estimatea
(1,000 Kyats)
Year I            Year 2            Yesr 3                                 %
1981/82           1982/83           1983/84            Total            Foreign
Item                                                   Unit        Onit Coat   No.   Cost         No.   Cost        No.   Cost         No.   Cost        Exchange
1.  Prefabricated storage shell 2/                                5,000 T depot    3,076       -       -          2    6,152        3    9,228        5    15,380         58
2.  Physical contingeicies (157. of (1))                                                                                 923              1,384              2,307        58
3.  Subtotal (I + 2)                                                                                                   7,075            10,612              17,687        58
4.  Price contingency rates 3/                                                                                          .271               .366
5.  Price contingencies                                                                                                1,917              3,884              5,801        58
6.  Total                                                                                                              8,992             14,496             23,488        58
7.  Land and site preparation, timber godown 4/                   per site            671      6    4,026        5    3,355         4    2,684       15    10,065          7
8.  Land and site preparation, prefab. steel godown 4/            per site            667      -       -          2    1,334        3    2,001        5      3,335         7
9.  Substructure, timber godown 5/                                5,000 T depot    1,749       6   10,494         5    8,745        4    6,996       15    26,235          0
10.  Substructure, prefab. steel godown 5/                         5,000 T depot    2,729       -       -          2    5,458        3    8,187        5    12,645          0
11.  Superstructure, timber godown 6/                             5,000 T depot    2,105        6   12,630         5   10,525        4    8,420       15    31,575         10
12.  Superstructure, prefab. ateel godown 7/                       5,000 T depot       322      -       -          2      644        3       966       5      1,610        22
13.  Installation mechanical handling equipment                    5,000 T depot       286      6    1,716         7    2,002        7    2,002       20      5,720        10
14.  Civil works (7 - 13)                                                                            28,866            32,063            31,256              92,185         6
15.  Physical contingencies (157. of (14))                                                            4,330             4,809             4,688              13,827         6
16.  Subtotal (14 + 15)                                                                              33,196            36,872            35 944             106,012         6
17.  Price tontingency rates 3/                                                                        .167              .260               .361
18.  Price contingencies                                                                              5,544             9,587             12,976             28,107         6
19.  Total (16 + 18)                                                                                 38,740            46,459            48,920             134,119         6        1
20.  Mechanical handling equipment 8/                              5,000 T depot    2,607       6   15,642         7   18,249        7   18,249       QO    52,140         58       Ls
21.  Physical contingencies ( 15% of (20))                                                            2,346             2,737              2,737              7,820        58        OD
22.  Subtotal (20 + 21)                                                                              17,988            20,986             20,986             59,960        58
23.  Price contingency rates                                                                           .181              .271               .366
24.  Price contingencies 3/                                                                           3,256             5,687              7,681             16,624        S8
25.  Total 422 + 24)                                                                                 21,244            26,674             28,668             76,584        58
26.  Base cost total (I + 14 + 20)                                                                   44,508            56,464             58,733            159,705        28
27.  Physical contingencies (2 + 15 + 21)                                                             6,676             8,469              8,809             23,954        28
28.  Price contingencies (4 + 17 + 24)                                                                8,800            17,191             24,541             50,532        28
29.  Total cost (6 + 19 + 25)                                                                        59,984            82,124            92,083             234,191
30.  Of which duties and taxes (about 22.67.) 9/                                                     13,556            18,560            20,811              52,927
1/ Based on Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5. Costs for management and supervision have been allocated to individual items.
2/  Includes costs for internal transportation and supervision by foreign supplier of installation of structure.
3/ Price contingency rates have been derived as weighted averages from the following price escalation factors:
1980/81   1981182   1982/83   1983184
Local costs                  .080       .166       .259      .360
Foreign costs                 .097      .191       .280       .370
4/  Includes costs for excavation and fill.
5/  Includes costs for platform and pavement.
6/  Includes costs for erection of superstructure.
7/  Includes costs for erection and painting of superstructure.
8/ Includes costs for supervision by foreign supplier of installation of equipment.
9/ Derived as weighted average of percentage duties and taxes of financial base cost of timber and prefabricated godowns respectively (see items 14 and 15 in Tables
4 and 5).
October 1, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rectangular Storage Unit (5,00(1 T)   Timber Version
11,000 Kynte)
Of which   Total net
inncal Loot            ducin-i      of dutins)    Econoic   Conversim,
Itm                                                    ecrete                                                  Local    orign_1_   Total         tunes       taxc-             cost         factor
1.  Aeration eqoipoe-t                              20  ,l-icir  rtinea  dute lec  14 ml 0                                   il3        164       277          113           164            164         1.00
$1,000 CUPIS Wuve01bie fans wOith .inctei1 Rotor with
spacitLy of 7,000 m Ihr 0 $40Cii.
2.  MechoninaI handling eqaipm,-t                   Loading and omiosdingcco-yors.glvtos   pr..erle.nr, *                     11       886      L,497          611           88i            886         i.00
etc. (See Table 6).
3 .Diesel geertur                                   U unit, 40 K. with accesso.rises 1 $30,000 CIP ieciuding                 ISO       261        442          180           261            261        i.00
swthsand Wiring $9,000 CUP
4.  Temperatur  moni..torIng system,                Appropriate devices to be determinted 0 $3,000                            14         20        34           14            20             20         1.00
5.  Spare perts                                    57. of CIF osise of 1+ 2 + 3 + 4 (scldinlg aeration                        46         67       112           46            hi             67         1.00
6.  Total landed cos t of iceperted                 (I n 2 e 3 o 4 c 5)                                                      964     1,398      2,362          964        1,398           1,398         1.00
equipmen t
7.  Trunsportatlon of sqnipmse t from               57. of CUP value of 1 o 2 n 3 + 4u 5, (i.e. .0) n                          0          -        70                         70             70        1.00
Ran$oon to site                                K i.398,000)
8.  Supervlsien and heetroctioe fur                 3 m...-..etha 10 $5,000 plus tIrs...l $3,500                               -        124       124            -           124            124         1.00
Intlainand c ovtmissoeimtg
by foreign supplier
9.  Totl1 ..nst of imported eqsip.eset              (6 o 7 + C)                                                          1j034       1522    2.55              964        1,592           1592&
instlle1d an eite
10.  Total civil curbs                               (lOs - h)                                                              426          291    4,717           625        4f090           3,9
L. Lad and site preparation                  Access roads. lunchjing, fencinJg office building                         444        49        493          116           37b            311          .83 21
etc..
b. ixcavanine end fill                         KEneatien and backfill labor 138,060 .s. ft. 10                            35         -         35            -            35            24          .70 3/
K .25/cs. ft.
c. Sbstructure                                Coc..rete, reinfnrcing steel med brick materia                         1,191          -    1,197           121        1,076             804          .82 41
and isbor costs (See Table 7)
d. Platform and pav-emet                       Coec.rets platforme in front of buIldings                                 ISO          -       180           10           170            132         .78
(3,366 sq. ft..of.10'  onrr  over 12", of
gree.d and 6" nf sand) and pavemet of 12" layer
of latr ite over 6"1 of san d in frort of and alongside
bs,IldIgS.. 5/
e. Specatrociore, material                    Timber, sheet metal and birdacre-  for constr-rtiee                    1,289        214     1,503          359         1,144          1,004          .90
of storage ehe1i, ctatelk and preclesne.r hbed (See
Table 9).
f. Uoperstructrur, seection                    Superstructure erectiun   nclading catwalk and shed                       162          -       in2            -           162            113          .70
476 T of timber at a labor cost of K 340/T)
g. Ienlro  of equipmen t                       207. of CIP vauof imported equipment u.n-  .2a                            252         28       280           19           2bO            213          .82 61
K 1,398,000)
h. Design engInee.ring and                     24.37. of all labor and material costs (-r diudlg                         867          -       8h7            -           862            694          .80
sapernision                                 costs fur inetallatier of tquipment) at nsrket
prices (i.e. .243 a K 3,570,000) 7Y
11.  SubtotL1                                         W9n  101                                                              5460       1.013    7.Z73         1 089         5.682          4Jj8j          .86
12.  M .ana8an-t and supervisio                      (.02 a K 7.273.0001                                                       145         -       145            -           145            116          .80
13.  Total b.s. cos t                                (11 + 12)                                                              5.605    1A1.2      7.418       JJ589        5j,35J00
14.  Of wh-ich ducies/t..c.                                                                                                 1,589          -     1,589        1,589                     - 
IS.  [otol Cost out dntics/hOuo-                                                                                            I, tJ                 ,                                             I- O!
I'Loastn  of 150 IForacs  roads, leeligad fening (50), 93 for jetty retro-rine (32.7 T of Pylebado or 2.2 and 21 lt.  labor) 215 Ic,  Ih6O  ft   ffc
buildin,g 1 K 134 (55.9 for rofingmaera   111.1 for bricks and cemet, 48 for labor) and 35 for uoct -' hd (24.5 for ncsa and 10.5 for labor).
21Fo-ign coponent asso-d in ht lOt.  SCP applied to odjunt 1e-a  costLs  -c  of tace...
3/  Spciulconrso  factor for Ib-,  (see Ance. 3, pagr 1).
Z/  Speciol con. si,factor for labor c-1nuloid or tbe banis of o 387i. ski(led lohor cc                         Lticn   ld  -oeb- nag,  -r,t ,  q-l to opp-Ltonity c"ut a,,d a 627.
onuktlled labor comPonet wIth opport-it' ost catinoted at .6 of narkt twago  rate  -,d uigSCP to adjout lo-u  c,u11.38 n 1.0 n .62 o  6   n.  ,.  70).
-LPinotl  ui   inclode for platforn 54 (Ishor 24 . .cc.. il 30) for pa--nen   t13 (nateriul 57, lao  46) pI.tLnprai. on f _acllt  oli   3.hcoei
costs estiested by applying OCF tonat-rl1 cots and thr ep-ciOl cnenofat,foeloo                               (Acorn  1, pn,. 1U.
il  Ansoinr  a l07. forrtgo eo-po..rtt.  Local  labor ..... adjuste~d by tho nync,Jlo cnerin foci - toe  1ab,-   (S-, Acorn3, pugn 11.
7/  C-rr.uP-nds to the  ocag   bY Cci-cr-clcn Corceac-Lc,,.
Otobeir 21, 1980



GRAIN STORACE PROJECT
Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Pref.bricated Steel Version
Financial and Econo.mic Investment Cots. - Soussry
(1,000 Ky-to)
Of which   Total net
Financial costs             duties/    of dutieL/   Econedic   Coversion
Item                                               Deecriptlon                                      Local   Por.ian   Total          taxes         taxes          cost        factor
1.  Prefabricat.d storsg.  hell               2 prefabricated storage sheIla (50' x 200' x 16)                1,160    1,682    2,842          1,160         1,682        1,682         1.00
complete tith ridge ventilator, catwalk roofing,
ocreen..t @ US$121,500 pluo  I -hed for preeleaner
(32' x 20') @ US$8,000.
2.  Aeration eq4ip..ent                       20 half-circular or trlangolar 40cts (each 14 )                   113       164       277           113          164           164        1.00
e $1,000 and 10 Moveable fans with electric iostor
cap. 7,000 m3/c e $4S0  CIF
3.   echanical haodling equipeent             Loading and unloading conveyors, elevators,                       611       886    1,497            611          886           886        1.00
preclesner etc. (See Table 6 )
4.  Dimeal generator                          I unit, 40 Kw with accessories, switches and                      180       261       442           180          261           261       100
wiring, $39,000 CIY.
5.  Tmper4tore aonitoLrig system              Appropriate device, to be determined, 0 $3,000.                    14        20        34            14           20            20        1.00
6.  Spare parts                               57 of CIP val.e of (2 t 3 t 4 +  5)                                46        67        112           46           67            67        1.00
7.  Total landed cost of imported             (I + 2 t 3 + 4 t 5 +  6)                                        2,125    3,080    5.204           2.125        3,080         3 080        1.00
equopDent
8.  Transportation of equipment from          51 of CIF value of (i.. .05 x K 3,080,000)                        154          -       154            -           154          154        1.00
Rangoon to site
9.  Supervielion and instruction for          5 man-onths 0 $5,000 plo. travel $3,500 x 2.                        -       214        214            -           214          214         1.00
iosatlletion and cessfIesioning
by foreign supplier
10.  Total cost of imported equip,ent          (7 + 8 t 9)                                                     2,279    3 294    5,572           2.125         3 448        3.448
installed at sIte
11.  Total civil works                         (IUs . 8)                                                       3.7791       145    3.927           409        3,516         2.695
. Land end mite preparation              Access roads, levelling, fencing, office-
building, etc. 1/                                                 444        49       493           116          376           311        *.83 21
b. Excavation and fill                   Excavation and backfill labor cost                                  33         -        33             -           33            23         .70 1         |
131,600 cu. ft. e K 251100 cu. ft.
c. Substructure                          Concrete, reainforcin, concrete forming                          1,988         -    1,988            216        1,773         1,289         .73
brickworks, aterial god labor (See Table 8)
d. Platform, and pavement                Concrete platform  in front of buildings (3,256 sq. ft.            168         _       168             9          159           123         .77
of 10" concrete over 12' of gravel and 6" of sand)
and pavement of 12" of lsterite over 6" of sand
in front of and alongaide building. 5/
a  Superstructure                        Superstructure erection (including catoslk and shed)               181        71       252            49          203           166         .82 61
73 T of steel 0 K 1,400/T, painting of outside
walls with r.bblrized paint (2 buildings 7,500 sq. ft.
each *t K 10/ft  (material 8, labor 2)
f. Installation of equipment             20S. of CIF value of Imported equipment (I.e.                      252        28       280            19          260           213         .2 71
.2 x K 1,398,000)
g. Dosige, engineering and               24.31 of all labor and materal costs (excl.                       713         -       713             -          713           570         .80
aoper'isios                           (f) above) at market Prices i.e. .243 x
K 2,934,000 81
12.  Subtotal                                  (10 . 11)                                                       6 058    3,442    9.499           2 534       6.966         6,143           .88
13.  Management and supervision                (.02 x K 9,499,000)                                               190          -       190            -          190          152           .80
14.  Total base cost                           (12 F 137                                                       6,24a    3.442    9,689           2,534       7.156         6295            .88
15.  Pf which doties/taxes                                                                                     2,534          -    2,534         2,534                         -
lb.  Total cost net dutles/taxes                                                                               3,/4    3,442       71-'            -         2.,it        6 295
1/  See Annex 1, Table 4, footnote 1v
1/  See Annex 1, Table 4, footnote 2.
3/  See An.e. 1, Table 4, foot.ote 3.
4/  See An.ex 1, Table 8.
51  Financial cote inaclude platform St (labor 22, material 29) p-ement 104 (eaterlal 52.  .labr 52) plun  transporLation of moicriolo to 14te  12.  Eicoroi-  cOntc
eatimated by applying SCF to material costs and the special co .ver.ion factor for lobor.
6/  B-Ced on o 70'. foreiSn component in painti,% costs and applying SCI for l-cal  -ons.
7/  booed on a 107 foreign component and applying SCF for local coo..
l   Slee Annex 1, Table 4, footnote 7.
Septecb-r 30, 1980



bURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rectangular Storage Unit (5 000 T)
FiLa-ncal and Econs-ic Inatment Costs - M.chanical Hl.udli,,s Equipm.ent
(1,000 Kyats)
Of which          Net of
Financial Costs                    dutiesj           duti-/          Economic          Conversion
It-n                                                    Deicription                                      Local           Fe-             TotelRtax.                       taxes             Co. t .2          Factor
(a)  Loadinl  conseyocs                   2 !.,ding belt conveyors (66 m each), capacity 25 T/hr
@ $300/m with trippers and hoppers @ $5,000.                           229,000          332,000        562,000         229,000            332,000         332,000             0.00
(b)  UInloading  -on-yors                 2 unlooding cable  -s-voysr- (66 m eech) capacity 25 T/hr
9 S3001m tith 30 inlete pius 2 outlets @ $150/inlet                    205,000          297,000        503.000         205,000           297,000b         297,000            .1.00
Cc)  Connecting convcyo-a                 2 movable bolt conveyro-  (9 m each) with inlet hoppers,
capacity 2S V/hr LI $2,500                                              23,000           34,000         57,000          23,000             34,000          34,000             1.00
Id)  Eloc-to-s                            2 bucket elevators CR m and 18 m)  ith hoppers and
platforn,s @ $3,200 and $4,000 respectively                             33,000           48,000         82,000          33,000            48,000           48,000             1.00
(e)  Pr=cloaner                           Precloaner 25 T/hr with supporting steol construction
and cycioln  @ $15,000                                                  69,000          101,000        170,000          69,000           101,000          101,000            1.00
(f)  Spouts and saloon                    33,000                                                                   14,000           20,000         34,600          14,000            20,0001          20,000            1.00
4i)  Scale                                I Aato.atic grain scale 25 T/hr with hoppers @ $6,000                   28,000            40,000         68,000          28,000            40,000           40,000            1.00
(C)  Augcro                               4 portable angers (0 $500                                                 9,000           13,000         23,000           9,000             13,000          13,000            1.00
ToLa1l Laded cost of
necharlical handlin3  qoipent        C  -  )                                                                611000            886,000      1,497,000        611,000            8860000         886,000
1/  lmpoat dotlos, lice1 se fe.., port charges -mont to 30% on CIF value.  A
Co-odity and S-rvice tes  of 30S it apiplid o.  the roolting landsd va1ue.
2/  Economsl costL  a,o equal tc CIF v-lues.
Septenr.Ser6, 19d(



BURMA GRAIN STORAGE
Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Timber Version
Financial and Economic Investment Costs - Substruicture -
(1,000 Kyats)
Cf which       Net of
2,'                            Financial Cost                     luties/        Duties/      Economic       Conversion
I temT                                       Description -Local                                Foreign    Total             Taxes          Taxes         Goat ~/        Factor
1.  Concrete Material and Labor (1 + 2)   24,732 cu. ft. @ K 1,300,100 cu. ft.                      320           -          320             26             294           229
2.  Concrete Material                          /1,732 cu. ft. @ K 554/100 cu. ft.                   136           -          126             ^5             110           100
(a)  Cement                               3 537 cu. ft. @ K 2,098/100 cu. ft.                  -7            -            74            15               59           59          CIF v^:u^
(b)  Sand                                 7,073 cu. ft. @ K 90/100 cu. ft.                        6          -             6              n               6             5           .80
,c)  Aggregate                             14,122 cu. ft. @ K 400/100 cu. ft.                    56          -            56             11              45            36           .80
3.  Concrete Labor                             24,732 cu. ft. 9 K 746/100 cii. ft.                  184           -          184              -             184           129            .70 5/
4.  Reinforcing Steel                          72,716 lbs. @ K 313/100 lbs.                         228           -          228             46              182          109          CIF value
5.  Reinforcing Labor                          72,716 lbs. @ K 63/100 lbs.                           46           -           46              -              46            32            .70 5/
6.  Conicrete forraing material 7/             500 sq. ft. @ K 750/100 sq. ft. for                    4           -            4               1               3             2           .80
elevator pit
7.  Concrete forming, labor 7/                 500 sq. ft. @ K 750/100 sq. ft. for
elevator pit                                           4          -             4              -               4             3            .70 5/
8.  Brick material                             42,000 cu. ft. @ K 570/100 cu. ft.                   239           -          239             48              191          153            .80
9.  Brick labor                                42,000 cu. ft. @ K 630/100 cu. ft.                   265           -          265              -              265          185            .70 5/
10.  Transportation of materials                1521 of material cost (i.e. .15 x 607,000)            91                       91              -               91           91           1.00 6/
*1.  Total cost of substructure                 (1 ;- 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 i 8 + 9 + 10)                  1,197           -        1,197            121           1,076           804            .82
1/  Includes foundation, plinth and elevator pit.
2/ Unit costs for all local maLerials refer to Rangooni site.
3/  Local taxes in percent of market prices are: sand 6%, course aggregate 20% and brick 20%.
4/  With the exception of cement and steel where CIF prices were used, economic costs of materials are based on financial costs less taxes adjusted by Lte  CF.
5/  Calculated on the basis of 38% skilled labor comporent with market wage rate equalling opportunity cost arid a 62% unskilled labor component with opportuniity
cost estinmated at .8 of market wage rate and using the SCF to adjust all local costs i.e. (.38 x 1.00 + .62 x .8) x .8 = .70.
6/  Assumes that subsidies on fuel are offset by'discounting of labor cost resulting in a conversion factor of 1.00.
7/  Includes elevator pit requirements only.                                                                                                                                                    m X
September 26, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Prefabricated Steel Version
Financial and Economic Investment Co3ts - Substructure
(1,000 Kyats)
Of which      Net of
Financial Cost                    duties/       duties/    Economic   Conversion
Item 1/                                Description 2/                            Local       Foreign        Total          taxes 3/       taxes       cost 4/    Factor
1.  Concrete, material and labor           40,560 cu. ft. @ K 1,300/100 cu. ft.                 527          -             527             44            484          370       .76
2.  Concrete material                      40,560 cu. ft. @ K 554/100 cu. ft.                    225          -            225              44           181          158       .87
a. cement                              5,794 cu. ft. @ K 2,098/100 cu. ft.                  122          -             122             24             97           91      CIF value
b. sand                                11,588 cu. ft. @ K 90/100 cu. ft.                     10          -              10              1             10            8       .80
c. coarse aggregate                    23,178 cu. ft. @ K 400/100 cu. ft.                    93          -              93             19             74           59       .80
3.  Concrete labor                         40,560 cu. ft. @ K 746/100 cu. ft.                    303          -            303               -           303          212       .70 5/
4.  Reinforcing steel,material             176,700 cu. ft. @ K 313/100 lbs.                      553          -            553             111           442          253      CIF value    >
5.  Reinforcing steel,labor                176,700 cu. ft. @ K 63/100 lbs.                       111          -            111               -           111           78       .70 5/
6.  Concrete forming material 7/           19,700 sq. ft. @ K 750/100 sq. ft.                    148          -            148              30           118           95       .80
7.  Concrete forming  labor 7/             19,700 sq. ft. @ K 750/100 sq. ft.                    148          -            148               -           148          103       .70 5/
8.  Brick work, material                   28,200 cu. ft. @ K 570/100 cu. ft.                    161          -            161              32           178          124       .80
9.  Brick work, labor                      28,200 cu. ft. @ K 630/100 cu. ft.                    178          -            178               -           178          124        70 5/
10.  Transportation of materials            15% of material costs (i.e.                           163          -            163               -           163          163      1.00 6/
from Rangoon to site                   .15 X K 1,086,300)
11.  Total cost of substructure             (1 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10)                    1,989          -          1,989             216         1,773         1,289      .73
1/  Includes foundation, plinth and elevator pit.
2/  Unit costs for all local materials refer to Rangoon Site.
3/  Local taxes in percent of market prices are:  sand 67,, aggregate 20%, brick 20%.
4/  With the exception of cement and steel, where CIF prices were used, economic costs of materials are based on financial costs less taxes adjusted by SCF.                                 - t
5/  Calculated on the basis of 387. skilled labor component of 387 with market wage rate equalling opportunity cost and a 62% unskilled labor component with                                5 
opportunity cost estimated at .8 of market wage rate and applying SCF to all local costs.
6/  Assumes that subsidies on fuel are offset by discounting of labor cost resulting in a conversion factor of 1.00.                                                                          |
7/  Includes elevator pit requirements only.
September 29, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rectangular Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Timber Version
Financial and Economic Investment Costs - Superstructure -/
(1,000 Kyats)
Of which   Net of
Financial Costs             duties/    duties/   Economic   Conversion
Local   Foreign   Total          taxes        taxes        Cost         factor
1.  Timber                                   (2 + 3)                                                        1,100       -        1L100         210          890          751
2.  liardwood timber (py}nkado)              Shell 444 T, catwalk, modification of truisses                 1,005       -        1,005          201          804         643 3/       .80
anid shed 13 T @ K 2,200/T
3.  Teak                                     Shell 16 T, catwalk and trusses 3 T @ K 5,000 T                   95       -           95            9           76         108 4/      1.42              4>
4.  Roofing sheet metal                      33,120 sq. ft. @ $.52/sq. ft. CIF                                 80       114        194           80          114          114 5/    1.00
5.  Birdscreen                               3,120 sq. ft. @ $187.5/100 sq. ft. CIF                            27        38         65           27           38          38 5/    1.00
6.  Nails, bolts, etc.                       9,000 lbs for each of 2 buildings plus 400 lbs                    43       62         104           42           62          62 5/      1.00
for shed $.5/lb CIF
7.  Tratisportationoof materials             15%, x CIF cost of imported material (K 263,000)                  39       -           39            -           39          39         1.0i
from Rangoon to site
Total                                    (1 + 4 + 5 + 6)                                               1,289    214         1 503          359        I, 14      4                .90
1/  liacludes cost of material for storage shell, catwalk, modified trusses and precleaninig shed.  Erectioni costs are shown separately in Aniniex I Table 4.
2/  Uniit prices for all imported materials are CIF prices.  Prices for timber include transportatiorn to site.
3/  Economic cost for pyinkado is calculated as finiancial cost less taxes adjusted by SCF.
4/  Based on average export price (FOB Rangoon) for teak.
5/  Based on CIF prices.
Septeinber 29, 198()                                                                                                                                                                               I-



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Project and Temporary Storage Units (5,000 T)
Financial and Economic Operating Costs per Year
Financial Costs                              Economic Costs
Project Storage          Temporary                                   Temporary
Timber      Prefab Steel    Storage          Timber      Prefab Steel   Storage
1. Wages/Salaries
Depot Supervisor  (1)           3,600                                         3,600
Deputies 1/        (4)         10,560                                        10,560
Accountant         (1)          2,400                                         2,400
Weighing Clerk    (1)            1,920                                        1,920
Talleymen          (2)          3,360                                         3,360
Mechanic '2/        (1)          3,640                                        3,640
Mech. helper       (1)          1,920                                         1,920
Operators 3!       (4)          6,720                                         6,720
Watchmen           (2)          2,640                                         2,640
Seasonal Clerk 4/ (2)           1,920                                         1,920
Casual Labor 5/  (10)           9,000                                         7,200                               1
Subtotal                     47,680      47,680          152,800          45,880    45,880             97,800
2.  Operating Costs 6/              17,000      17,000                -          45,900    45,900                  -
3.  Fumigation 7/                    3,600       3,600                -           3,600      3,600                 -
4. Maintenance and Repair
Civil works 8/                 54,050      78,200                 -          38,300    52,050                  -
Equipment 9/                   82,800      82,800                 -          48,300    48,300                  -
Total                       205,130 - 229.280            152,800          181,980   195,730.           97,800
1/ Stores Controller responsible for quality control (aeration) and also trained as paddy buyer during
procurement season.
2/ Responsible for maintenance of prefabricated bins and aeration equipment.
3/ Responsible for operating.
4/ To be seasonally (for six months) delegated from train, ships and divisional offices.
5/ For unloading of trucks, for 75 days at K 12/day.
6/ Diesel consumption 6,800 gallons (1,700 hrs. at 4 gal. per hour) financial cost of 2.5 Kyats/gal; economic
price of US$44/bl based on projected world market price for diesel oil 1990 in constant 1980 dollars.
7/ For technicians and chemicals.
8/  1% of financial investment costs including physical contingencies for financial analysis; i.e. for
timber unit .01 x (1.15 x K 4,700,000) + K 54,050 and for prefabricated steel unit (including storage
shell .01 (1.15 x K 6,800,000) = K 78,200. 17. of financial investment costs less taxes with
adjustment of local costs by SCF for economic analysis;i.e. for timber .01 x (1.15 x K 3,330,000 =
K 38,300 for prefabricated steel .01 x (1.15 x K 4,526,000) = K 52,050.
9/ 37. of financial cost of equipment including physical contingencies for financial analysis; i.e.
.03 x (1.15 x K 2,400,000) = K 82,800. 3a/ of cif costs of imported equipment for economic analysis; i.e.
.03 x (1.15 x K 1,400,000) = K 48,300.
10/  Based on total cost figures given in SAR May 1979 adjusted by factor of 2 to be consistent with
revised assumption on paddy throughput (See Annex 3, "Basis for Calculating Storage Losses in New
Storage Component").
11/  Assumes 807. casual labor with shadow wages of 807 of financial costs.  Total labor costs
adjusted by SCF.
October 3, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rehabilitation of Godowns and Jetties
I/
Phasing of Costs -
(1,000 Kyats)
Unit       Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Total           Foreign
Item                                    Unit          Costs    No.      Cost       No.      Cost       No.    Cost        No.      Cost       Exchange
1.  Jetty Rehabilitation                          No.            8.4      20        168      50         420       50       420      120      1,008          -
2.  Minor Godown Rehabilitation                   1,000 ton      6.3      50        316      75         474      125       790      250      1,580         44
godown
3.  Major Godown Rehabilitation                   1,000 ton    20.9      50       1,043      75       1,564      125    2,607       250      5,215         24
godown
4.  Birdproofing material for rented              420 ft2        4.3       -           -     50         215      100       430      150        645         65
4-
godowns 2/
5.  Subtotal (1+2+3+4)                                                            1,527               2,673              4,247               8,448         28
6.  Physical contingencies (.15 x (5))                                              229                 400                637               1,266         28
7.  Price contingencies 3/                                                          300                 811              1,763               2,874         28
8.  Total cost                                                                    2,056               3,884              6,647              12,587         28
9.  Of which duties/taxes (24%)                                                     499                 942              1,612               3,053
1/  Based on Annex 1, Table 12.
2/  Sparrow netting required for birdproofing rented godowns is estimated at 420 sq ft per 1,000 ton godowa at a c.i.f. cost of K 10.25 per sq ft.
3/  Calculated on the basis of price contingency rates as shown in Annex 3, Table 3, footnote 3.
November 21, 1980



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rehabilitation Cost Jetties and AFPTC Owned Godown 1/2/
Cost Item                             Cost (Kyat)-    % F.E.
I. Jetty Rehabilitation
Material (2 tons of Pyinkado at K 2,200 each)             4,400
Labor (335 man-days at K 12 each)                         4,000
TOTAL                 8,400
of which taxes        1,225
II.  Minor Godown Rehabilitation-4/
Material: Sparrow Netting (420 sq.ft. at K 10.25
each)                       4,310            65
Rodent Hole Blocking Materials                   210
Labor (150 man-days at K 12 each)                         1,800
TOTAL                 6,320           44
of which Duties and Taxes        1,610
III.  Major Godown Rehabilitation-/
Material:  Sparrow Netting (420 sq.ft. at K 10.25
each)                       4,300           65
Roofing Sheets (1,000 sq.ft. at K 3.45
each)                        3,450           65.
Timber (4 tons of Pyinkado at K 2,200
each)                                 8,800
Rodent Blocking Materials                        210
Labor (340 man-days at K 12 each)                     - 4,100
TOTAL                20,860           24
of which Duties and Taxes       5,028
1/  Local costs based on unit price figures from Nov. 1978 updated to mid-1980.
Costs of imported materials based on price quotation from July 1979 updated to
mid-1980.
2/  Phasing:                               Year 1      Year 2     Year 3
Jetty Rehabilitation (No.s)              20          50          50
Minor Rehabilitation (No.s)              25          50         100
Major Rehabilitation (No.s)              25          50         100
3/ Including Duties and Taxes.
4/  For godown- of 1,000 m. ton capacity
October 15, 1980



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 13
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Equipment for Grading and Pest Control
Cost Item                           Cost (Kyat)--        % F.E.
I.  Grading Equipment
1.  600 Hand Hullers at K 190 each                    114,000                87
2.  600 Hand Winnowers at K 470 each                  282,000               87
3.  600 Sample Boards at K 45 each                     27,000                 -
4.  40 Pocket Sling Psychometers at K 390 each         15,600               87
5.  40 Registering Thermometers at K 172 each           6,880               87
6.  40 Grain Thermometers at K 89 each                  3,560               87
7.  20 72" Grain Triers with T-Handle at K 1,110
each                                               22,200               87
8.  20 Sets of Rice Dockage Sieves at K 389 each        7,780               87
TOTAL           479,020               82
of which Taxes        62,704 (13%)
II. Pest Control Equipment
9.  51 Hand-sprayers (3 gal.) at K 851 each            43,690               87
10.  28 Gas Circulating Fans at K 2,670 each            74,760                87
11.  Pesticides (incl. Warfarin and Lindane)-/         147,000                95
TOTAL           265,450               91
of which Taxes        22,112
1/ Costs of imported equipment and materials based on price quotations from July
1979 updated by 11% inflation factor to mid-1980.
2/  Including Taxes only since agricultural equipment is exempt from import duty.
3/ Items 1-3 would be supplied to all paddy procurement centers in Irrawaddy, Pegu
and Rangoon Divisions, items 4-8 would be provided for the 20 new storage sites
only.
4/ Incremental requirements phased in line with godown construction.
October 15, 1980



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 14
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Drying Pilot Project
Phasing and Cost Estimate
(In Kyats)
Unit         Year 2            Year 3      Total4/       %
Cost      No.      Cost        Cost       Cost -       F.E.
1. Paddy Driers -
Type A, Drier        57,570        3     172,710        -        172,710        87
Type B, Drier        27,700        3      83,100        -         83,100        87
Grain Crack
Tester               140       20       2,780        -          2,780        87
Operating Cost 2/         -        -      80,880          80,880  161,760        -
Subtotal Paddy
Driers                                339,470    80,880       420,350        53
2. Assembling and Initial
Operating Supervision  3/                158,400        -        158,400       100
3.  Base Cost (1 + 2)                        497,870    80,880       578,750        66
4. Physical Contingencies
(.05 x (3))                               24,893      4,044       28,937        66
5.  Price Contingencies                       142,662    30,912      173,574        66
6.  Total Cost                                665,425   115,836      781,261        66
of which taxes                            44,930       -          44,930
l/ For details, see Table 16.
2/ Excluding depreciation and interest on capital.
3/ Three man-months at US$8,000 (incl. airfare) to assist in assembly paddy driers
and initial test running.
4/ Including taxes on investment cost but no indirect taxes on operating cost.
October 15, 1980



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 15
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Unit Cost of Mechanical Paddy Driers
In Kyats,z-' % F.E.
I. Type A (Capacity 2 mt/hour)
1.  Investment Cost
Two Units of the Cup and Cone Dryer Casing                     12,790
One Blower Fan with Motor to deliver 1,500 cfm
of air at 3" W.G. pressure                                  12,790
Husk Furnace                                                   19,190
Elevator with Motor                                             6,400
Ducting, etc.                                                   6,400
Total Investment Cost                  57,570          87
of which Taxes                      7,507
2.  Operating Cost-/
Operator                                                        2,880
Labor (Foreman and Casual Labor)                                6,000
Electricity, Grease, etc.                                       9,000
Depreciation and Interest on Capital                           10,000
Total Operating Cost p.a.                27,880          -
II. Type B (Capacity 1 mt/hour)
1. Investment Cost
Dryer (including Fan, Motor or Engine, and Burner)             27,700         87
of which Taxes                            3,600
2.  Operating Cost-/
Operator                                                        2,400
Labor                                                           3,000
Fuel (700 gals. at K 3.50                                       2,450
Maintenance Cost                                                  510
Depreciation and Interest on Capital                            5,000
Total Operating Cost p.a.                 13,360
1/  Costs of imported materials based on price quotations from July 1979 updated
to mid-1980 by inflation factor of 11%.
2/ Including Taxes only, exempt from import duty.
3/ Assuming total throughput of 2,000 mt per annum at 10 mt/day.
October 15, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wagon Rehabilitation for Rice Unit Train
Phasing of Costs
(1,000 Kyats)
Unit        Year 1           Year 2           Year 3          Total
Item                   Unit     Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost    No.    Cost        % F.E.
1.  Equipment -/
Brake                  Per Wagon   18.4       60    1,104                                        60    1,104       68
Bearings               Per Piece    0.51    480        245                                      480      245       68
Total Equipment                                  1,349                                              1,349
2.  Labor
Brake                  Per Wagon    0.5                        60       30                       60        30       0
Bearings               Per Piece    0.025                     480       12                      480       12        0
Total Labor                                                          42                                42        0
3.  Total Base Cost                                      1,349              42                             1,391       66
4.  Physical Contingency (5%)                               67               2                                 69      66
5.  Price Contingency                                      259              12                                271       66
6.  Total Cost                                           1,657              56                              1,731      66
Of which Duties and Taxes                              543                                                543       -
1/  Equipment would be ordered in Year 1 and delivered and paid for in Year 2.  Costs of imported equipment
are based on price quotations from July 1979 updated with inflation factor of 11% to mid-1980.
October 16, 1980



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 17
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Costs of Transshipment Storage for Rice in Bags -/
Year 2
Cost Item                                                     Cost 2/3l   % F.E.
(in '000 Kyat)
Prefabricated Steel CIF Rangoon                                 850         100
Duties, Taxes, License Fee and Port Charges                     445            -
Foundation                                                      970
Platform (10' wide on both sides)                               320
Internal Transport and Insurance                                10
Assembling Cost                                                 148            -
TOTAL BASE  COST          2,743            .31
Duties and Taxes                                                695
1/ Storage Dimensions would be 325' length, 50' width, and 15' height.
2/ Costs of imported equipment are based on price quotations from July 1979
updated with inflation factor of 11% to mid-1980. Local costs based on November
1978 prices updated by domestic inflation factor to mid-1980.
3/ Including taxes on local cost components.
October 15, 1980



SURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Overseas and In-Service Trainin&
Phasing of Costs
(in Kyats)
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3              Total
Item                                   No.    Cost          No.    Cost         No.    Cost          No.    Cost          % F.E.
1.  Overseas Training -
Managers, Headquarters 2/                        5   131,767          4   105,413         -        -           9   237,180          100
Pest Control Inspectors                          7   192,290          7   192,290         -        -          14   384,580          100
Godown In-Charge                                 8   219,760          7   192,290         -        -          15   412.050          100
Subtotal at July 1979 prices        20   543,817         18   489,993                             38 3,033,810          100
Adjusted to mid-1980 prices               605,000             545,120                                 1,150,120
2.  In-Service Training                                                                                                                                >
Staff New Storage Sites/                                                1/
Procurement Centers                         100     4,268       105 -I  4,482          -        -         205     8,750            -
Staff Existing Procurement
Centers                                     500     8,750       500      8,750         -        _       1,000    17,500            _
Pest Control Staff                              38      1,775        37     1,725         -        -          75      3,500           -
Subtotal at July 1979 prices       638    14,793        642    14,957                          1,280    29,750            -
Adjusted to mid-1980 prices                15,680              15,854                                    31,534          97
3.  Total Base Cost (at mid-1980 prices)           658   620,680        660   560,974                          1,318 3,181,654
4.  Price Contingency                                     118,550             157,073                                   275,623          97
5.  Total Cost                                            739,230             718,047                                 3457,277
1/  Trainees would be sent overseas in 3rd quarter of year 1, 2nd and 3rd quarters of year 2.                                                      X
2/  In year 1, DGM Procurement and Storage Operations Unit and DAGM Field Training would undertake an overseas study tour
and undergo overseas training respectively.
October 17,1980



- 54                             ANNEX 1
Table 19
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Training Program
No. of              Dura-
Partic-   No. of  tion of 1/        2/5/
ipants   Courses  Training-   Cost- -        % F.E.
(days)    (Kyats)
I.  Overseas Training
Storage Maintenance and Quality
Control Unit
DGM, Head of Unit                                1               21          18,425
AGM, Maint. and Rehab. Section                   1               30          21,440
(Civil Engineer)
DAGM, Maint. and Rehab. Section                  1               30         21,440
(Mechanical Engineer)
AGM, Inspect. and Qlty. Control Section          1               60          31,490
AGM, Pest Control Section         3/             1               60          31,490
Inspectors, Pest Control Section-               10               60        274,700
Procurement and Storage Operations
Unit
DGM, Head of Unit                                1               21          18,425
AGM, Procurement and Process. Section            1               30          31,550
AGM, Storage Operations and Train. Sec.          1               60          31,490
DAGM, Field Training                             1               90          41,540
Godown In-Charge-l                              15               60        412,050
Shipment and Transit Storage Irriga-
tion Section
3/
Inspectors (Irrigation of Ships)-                4               60        109,880
Subtotal                  38                        I;033,810       100
4/
II.  In-service Training-
New Storage Sites/Procurement Centers
Godown In-Charge                                 5       8        7           2,800
Assistant Godown In-Charge                      80       -        -             -
Mechanic                                        20       3       14           2,100
Assistant Mechanic                              20       3        7           1,050
Aeration Equipment Operator                     80       8        7           2,800
Existing Procurement Centers
Godown In-Charge                              500       25        7           8,750
Paddy Buyers                                  500       25        7           8,750
Pest Control Staff
Pest Control Inspectors                         15       2       14           1,400
Pest Control Operator                           60       6        7           2,100
Subtotal               1,280       80                  29,750
TOTAL                  1,318                        1,063,560
l/  Totalling 71.4 man-months.
2/  Based on following cost per person: airfare US$1,200, per diem US$50, miscellaneous US$500.
3/ Per diem US$40, airfare and miscellaneous as under 2/.
4/ Totalling 307 man-months and 595 training weeks. The cost of in-service training is
composed of travel expenses and per diem for two instructors per training course and
averages K 50 per training day.
5/  All costs based on July 1979 prices.
January 24, 1979



- 55 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 20
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Monitoring and Evaluation
Cost Item                                                                  Cost              % F.E.
(in Kyat)
I. Manpower and Computer Cost
1. Data Collection
20 Supervisors at K 15 per day for 6 months                     54,000
60 Enumerators at K 10 per day for 6 months                    108,000
2. Data Preparation and Processing
Punching - 100 man-days at K 10 per day                           1,000
Verifying - 100 man-days at K 15 per day                          1,500
Programming - 210 man-days at K 15 per day                        3,150
8 Office Staff at K 15 per day for 4.5 months                   16,200
Computer Cost (180 minutes)                                     18,000
Sub - Total               201,850
1/
II. Equipment -
Long Carriage Typewriter (English Keyboard)                      6,930               65
20 Electronic Pocket Calculators at K 1,160 each                23,200               65
i Electric Desk Calculator                                       2,070               65
Computer Stationery                                              3,730               65
Other Stationery 3/                                            l1,000                 -
Miscellaneous Expenses 4/                                       21;000                -
Sub - Total                 68,930               52
of which Duties and Taxes            16,650
TOTAL                    270,780               13
of which Duties and Taxes            16,650
1/  Costs for imported materials are based on price quotations from 1979 updated by annual
inflation factor of 11% to mid-1980. Costs for local materials are based on November
1978 prices and updated to mid-1980 by adjusting for local inflation.
2/  Including Punch Cards, Magnetic Disk Cartridges and Tapes and Computer Line Printing
Paper.
3/  Including Stencils, Duplicating Paper, Carbon Paper, Typewriter Ribbon, Pencils
and Duplicating Ink.
4/  Including operating and maintenace cost for motorcycles procured under seed project
(2 motorcycles - 12 months each) and provision for water transport and car rental.
October 16, 1980



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 21
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Comparative Financial Costs of Recently Constructed
or Estimated Warehouses in South Asia Region 1/
Cost per ton
storage capacity
Country           TMe                        Capacity                  US$/ton
Bangladesh (1)   Fertilizer store (est.)   8,000 t fertilizer            224
(2)   Dacca type foodgrain
godown (est.)            1,000 t paddy               112
Nepal       (1)   Foodgrain store (est.)
2,000 t rice                69
India       (1)   Foodgrains store, bulk
warehouses              50,000 t                      42 (67) 2/
Pakistan   (1)   Wheat store (recently
constructed)             2,000 t wheat                60
Burma             Proposed stores for bulk
paddy:
(1)   Timber godown               2 x 2,500 t paddy          150 (241)2/
(2)   Prefab. steel godown       2 x 2,500 t paddy           229 (310)2/
1/ Unless otherwise indicated all stores are designed for bag storage.
2/ Bracketed figures include costs of mechanical equipment.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Table 1     Income Statement of AFPTC
Table 2     Balance Sheet of AFPTC
Table 3     Sources of Application of Funds
Table 4     Financial Cost/Benefit Analysis for 5,000 Ton Storage
Unit - Timber Version
Table 5     Financial Cost/Benefit Analysis for 5,000 Ton Storage
Unit - Prefabricated Steel Version
Table 6     Financial Costs and Benefits - Storage Rehabilitation
Table 7     Financial Costs and Benefits - Transport



BURNA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Income Statement of AFPTC /
(millions of Kyats)
Historic                                                      Projected-Z
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78               1978/79    1979/80    1980181    1981182    1982/83    1983/84
Revenues
1. Foreign Sales              773        803        913                  959         965       1,018       1,088       1,167       1,250
2. Local Sales              1,083      1,178      1,358                1,367       1,398       1,429       1,460       1,491       1,521
3. Other Income                21         24         22                   22          22          22          22          22          22
4. Total Revenue            1,877      2,005      2,293                2,348       2,385       2,469       2,570       2,680       2,793
Expenditure
5. Cost of Material         1,046      1,448      1,573                1,620       1,646       1,703       1,773       1,849       1,927         1
6. Processing Cost            122        147        186                  195         198         205         213         222         232         >
7. Marketing Cost             233        156        194                  188         191         198         206         214         223         X
8. Administrative Cost                    67        105                  106         107         111         116         121         126         1
9. Depreciation                            2          2                     7          7           7           9          11          13
10. Turnover Tax                          100        106                  117         119         123         128         134         140
11. Total Expenditure        1,761      1,920      2,166                2,233       2,268       2,348       2,445       2,552       2,661
Net Income
12. Net Income before
financing and
adjust-ments               116         85        127                  115         117         121         125         128         132
13. Less: Adjustments           18         10        (78)                   0           0           0           0           0           0
14. Less: Interest             -           10          2                    3           3           3           4           8          13
15. Net Income after
financing                   98         65       203                   112         114         118         121         120         119
16. Less: Dividends              49        10         33                   18          18          19          19          19          20
17. Retained Earnings           49         55        170                   94          96          99         102         101          99
1/  As prepared by November 1978 IDA mission and updated October 1980 to reflect revised project costs, amount and
conditions for IDA loan.
2/  Projections abstract from weather effects and price fluctuations on foreign sales, and revenues in particular                                N
are therefore subjected to changes.
'.October 21, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1/
Balance Sheet of AFPTC -
(millions of KyatsJ
Historic 2/                                          Projected
1976/77   1977/78          1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/83    1982/83    1983/84
I. Assets
A. Current Assets
1.  Cash                               547        596              385         413         413         380         332         280
2.  Inventory                        1,426      1,043            1,349       1,371       1,419       1,477       1,540       1,605
3.  Receivables                         902     1,014              488         496         514         535         558         581
4.  Subtotal                          2,875       653            2,222       2,280       2,346       232         2,430       2,466
B. Fixed Assets
5.  Gross Assets                        228       287              287         287         287         354         447         544
6.  Less:  Depreciation                 170        172             179         186         193         202         213         226
7.  Net Assets                           58       115              108         101          94         152         234         318
8.  Total Assets                     2,933      2,768            2,330       2,381       2,440       2,544       2,664       2,784
II.  Liabilities
t_i
A.  Current Liabilities
9.  Accounts Payable                    264        268             289         294         304         316         330         344
10.  Short Term Debt                     259          -               0           0           0           0           0           0
11.  Current Portion of the
Long Term Debt                     46         46               50         50           50          50          50          50
12.  Subtotal                            569        314             339         344         354         366         380         394
B. Long Term Debt
13.  Advance from Govt.                  491        445             399         353         307         261         215         169
14.  Local Loan                           13         28              25          22          20          17          14           11
15.  Foreign Loan (ADB)                   11         23              22          21          20          18          17           16
16.  Foreign Loan (IDA)                    -          -               0           0           0          40          95         152
17.  Subtotal                            515       496              446         396         346         336         341         348
18.  Equity                            1,849     1,                 545       164     1  1.740        1,842  2,042
19.  Total Liabilities                 2,933     2,768            2,330       2,381       2,440       2,544       2,664       2,784
1/ As prepared by November 1978 IDA mission and updated October 1980 to reflect revised project costs amount and
conditions for IDA loan.
2/  Before 1976/77, accounting procedures were different and the statements are not comparable.                                         z
October 21, 1980                                                                                                                       I



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds /
(millions of Kyats)
Projected
I.  Sources of Funds                1977/78                 1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84
1. Net Income                       203                     112         114         118          121         120         119
2. Depreciation                       2                        7           7           7           9          11           13
3. Increase in Payables               4                      21            5          10          12          14           14
4. New Debt                          27                       0            0          0           40          55           57
5. Decrease in Cash                  -                      211                        0         33          48           52
6. Decrease in Inventory            383                       0            0           0           0           0            0
7. Decrease in Receivables           -                       190                      0            0           0            0
8. Total So.urces                   619                     370         1           135          215         248          255
II.  Application of Funds
9. Increase in Cash                  49                       0          28            0           0            0           0
10. Increase in Inventory             -                      306           22          48          58           63          65
11. Increase in Receivables          112                        0           8          18          21           23          23
12. New Fixed Assest                  59                        0           0           0          67          93           97
13. Repayment of Debt                305                       46          50          50          50           50          50
14. Dividends                         33                       18          18          19          19           19          20
15. Repurchase of Equity              61                        0                      0           0            0           0
16. Total Applications               619                     370         126          135         215         248          255
1/  As prepared by November 1978 IDA mission and updated October 1980 to reflect revised project costs,                                  |
and amount and conditions for IDA loan.
October 21, 1980



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
BURMA                                                               Table
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Financial Cost/Benefit Analysis for 5,000 Ton Storage Unit - Timber Version -
( 1,000 Kyats )
Permanent Storage (With Project)                      Temporary Storage (Without Project)
Investment    Operating    Total    Storage             Investment    Operating         Total    Storage          Incremental      Incremental
Cost 2/        Cost 3/       Cost      Losses 4/        Cost 5/         Cost 6/       Cost      Losses 4/          Cost            Benefit
Year          C1             C2            C3         BI              c4              C 5           C6           2              C3               B -B
1         8,531               -        8,531          -            144               -           144            -            8,387               -
2              -           205           Z05       -229             72             153           225      -i,536               -20         -1,307
3             -            205           205      -198              72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,338
4              -           205           205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
5              -           205           205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
6              -           205           205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
7              -           205           205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
8              -           205           205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
9              -            205          205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
10              -            205          205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
11              -            205          205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -20         -1,360
12              -            205          205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -20         -1,360
13              -                         205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
14              -                         205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
15         3,261                        3,466       -176             72             153           225       -1,536            3,241         -1,360
16              -                         205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
17              -                         205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
18              -                         205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
19              -                         205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
20              -                         205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
21              -                         205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -7o         -1,360
22              -                         205       -176            144             153           297       -1,536              -92         -1,360
23              -                         205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -20         -1,360
24              -                         205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -20         -1,360
25              -                         205       -176            144             153           297      -1,536               -92         -1,360
26              -                         205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -20         -1,360
27              -                         205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
28              -                         205       -176            144             153           297       -1,536              -92         -1,360
29              -                         205       -176             72             153           225       -1,536              -20         -1,360
30              -                         205       -176             72             153           225      -1,536               -20         -1,360
Financial Rate of Return:  15.5%
1/  Based on annual throughput of 10,000 ton (See Annex 3 "Basis for Calculating Storage Losses in New Storage Component."
2/  Annex 1, Table 4 ("Financial" column).  Aeration and mechanical handling equipment (including installation) will be replaced
in the fifteenth year.
3/  Annex 1, Table 10 ("Financial Project Timber Godown" column).
4/  Quantitative paddy losses (Annex 3, Table 4, page 1) valued at a financial ex-godown price of paddy of K 1,124/MT (export
price for 35%. broken rice (K 2,542/MT) less export equalization tax (14%), export duty and turnover taxes (2+5%) and
export expenses, transportation, packing and handling, net milling (K 304) adjusted by a rice recovery factor of .65.
Qualitative paddy losses (Annex 3, Table 4, page 1) are valued as reductions in the export price for 35% broken rice
net of taxes and export duties adjusted by rice recovery factor.
5/  Without project, temporary godowns will have to be built at financial cost of K 144,000 for initial investment and
K 72,000 each for 2nd and 3rd year, to be repeated every 4th year.
6/  Annex 1, Table 10 ("Financial Temporary Godown" column).
October 21, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Financial Cost/Benefit Analysis for 5,000 Ton Storage Unit - Prefabricated Steel Version -/
(1,000 Kyats)
Permanent Storage (With Project)                    Temporary Storage (Without Project)
Investment    Operating    Total    Storage           Investment    Operating    Total    Storage            Incremental    Incremental
Cost 2./      Cost 3/      Cost      Losses 4/       Cost 5/         Cost 6/      Cost      Losses 7/         Cost            Benefit
Year          1              2           C3          1              4             C5           C6          B2               3  6             1  2
1       11,142             -        11,142          -           144               -          144           -           10,998              -
2             -           229          229        229            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,307
3             -           229          229        198            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,338
4             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
5             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
6             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
7             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
8             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
9             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
10             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
11             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
12             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
13             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
14             _           229          229        176            72             153          225        1 536               4             1,360
15         3,261           229        3,490        176            72             153          225        1,536           3,265             1,360
16             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
17             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
18             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
19             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
20             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
21             -           229          229        176            72              153         225        1,536               4             1,360
22             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
23             -           229          229         176           72              153         225        1,536                4            1,360
24             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
25             -           229          229         176          144              153         297        1,536             -68             1,360
26             -           229          229        176            72             153          225        1,536               4             1,360
27             -           229          229        176            72              153         225        1,536                4            1,360
28             -           229          229        176           144             153          297        1,536             -68             1,360
29             _           229          229-       176            72              153         225        1,536                4            1,360
30             -           229          229         176           72              153         225        1,536                4            1,360
Financial Rate of Return:   11.17%
1/  See Annex 2, Table 4, footnote 1.
2/  See Annex 2, Table 4, footnote 2.
3/  See Annex 2, Table 4, footnote 3.
4/  See Annex 2, Table 4, footnote 4.
5/  See Annex 2, Table 4, footnote 5.
6/  See Annex 2, Table 4, footnote 6.
October 21, 1980



-63-                             ANNEX 2
Table 6
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Financial Costs and Benefits - Storage Rehabilitation
(in 1,000 Kyats)
Rehabilitation         Storage                Net
Year                 Cost 1/        Losses Saved             Benefit
1                   814                    -                 -814
2                2,654                   617               -2,037
3                4,453                 2,605               -1,848
4                   288                6,584                6,296
5                   288                6,584                6,296
6                   288                5,938                5,650
7                   288                3,978                3,690
Financial Rate of Return > 50%
Fiscal 2/ Rate of Return > 50%
1/ Includes pest control expense.
2/ Calculated after deducting duties and taxes from investment
cost (20.1%) and adding export and turnover tax (23.5%) to
benefits.
Feb. 8, 1979



-64-                            ANNEX 2
Table 7
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Financial Cost and Benefits-Transport
(in 1,000 Kyats)
With Project                  Without Project
Operating             Operating               Net
Year            Investment    Cost                   Cost                    Benefit
1               1,272        16,919                  16,919                 -1,272
2               2,836        16,919                   16,919                -2,836
3                  -          8,839                  16,919                  8,080
4                 -           8,839                  16,919                  8,080
5               _             8,839                  16,919                  8,080
6                 -           8,839                  16,919                  8,080
7              -1,012         8,839                  16,919                  9,092
Financial Rate of Return > 50%
Feb. 8, 1979



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
-Basis for Calculating Reductions in Paddy Storage Losses
from New Storage Component
Introduction
1.        The economic value of paddy that would be saved by the new storage
component of the project is measured as the reduction in the storage losses
predicted in a "with project situation" as compared to those expected in the
absence of the project. 1/
"With Project" Situation
2.         The values of quantitative and qualitative losses shown in Annex 3,
Table 4 (cols. 3 and 4) are calculated as follows:
QT    G    [ Q    QT]
(2) XQL   pE   L QL
Values:
XOT   =  Quantitative losses of paddy per storage period (Kyats)
XOL   =  Qualitative losses of paddy per storage period (Kyats)
P     =  Ex-godown value of paddy (Kyats/ton)
G
PE    =  Export price of rice per ton paddy (Kyats/ton)
Q     =  Quantity of paddy loaded to and moved through project
storage (tons)
L     =  Weighted average quantitative loss rate per storage
QT      period (%); an
LQL   =  Weighted average qualitative loss rate per storage period (%).
The basis for assigning values to the individual elements used to
estimate storage losses is discussed below.
1/   Although project storage primarily would be used for storage of paddy, it
would to an extent also be used for short-term storing of bagged rice
milled at the integrated rice mill-cum-storage centers. The benefits of
such storage are not discussed here.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Economic Price of Paddy.  The ex-godown value of paddy used for
measuring quantitative storage losses, is derived, as shown in Annex 3, Table
5, from the f.o.b. Rangoon price for Burmese rice. The latter, in turn, is
derived from the projected 1990 price for Thai rice (5% broken) expressed in
1980 dollars. Qualitative losses are evaluated as reductions in export price
(LOL x PE in Eq. 2) caused by deterioration in quality of paddy during stor-
age. The imputed export price for Burmese rice is K 2,542 tons of rice or
K 1,652 tons of paddy (assuming a rice recovery of 65%).
4.        Quantity Loaded to and Moved Through Project Storage.  The opera-
tions of storage facilities proposed under the project are to be integrated
with those of new rice mills to be established in the procurement districts
of the project area. As such, they are expected to be used as stores for
paddy in transit directly from procurement and from other existing stores
(open, temporary or permanent) to milling. In contrast to general practices
at existing storage facilities which traditionally have been used as collec-
tion centers for paddy prior to transport of paddy for milling in urban areas,
the capacity of project storage is predicted to turn over more than once a
year. 11
5.        Because of the shortage of storage in the project area in relation
to the projected increases in procurement, project storage will fill up quickly
at the start of the procurement season. As paddy is removed for milling, proj-
ect storage will be refilled as long as the procurement rate is exceeding the
milling capacity or as long as reductions in storage losses can be accomplished
by moving paddy stored in temporary or open storage with high loss rates to
project storage with low loss rates. For appraisal purposes, it has been
assumed that as the procurement season ends and the wet season is about to
start, project storage is filled with paddy originating from temporary storage
facilities. Thus, losses of paddy in a 5,000 ton project storage depot are
based on a total throughput of 10,000 tons.
6.        Quantitative and qualitative loss rates are accordingly based on the
assumption that 50% of storage throughput originates directly from procurement
with the balance being transferred from temporary stores to project storage.
The weighted average quantitative loss rate (L T) for paddy moved through
project storage (including storage losses incurQed during temporary storage
prior to transfer of paddy to project storage) is given by Eq. 3:
(3) L QT   0.5A QT+0.5(BQ  + A Q)
()QT         QT       (QT    QT)
where A T=  quantitative loss rate per ton paddy and
QT storage period in project storage (%); and
B   =   qualitative loss rate per ton paddy per
QT     storage period in temporary storage (%).
1/   AFPTC has indicated an expected turnover of 3-4 times/year.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Similarily for qualitative losses, the weighted average loss rate
(L ) is given by Eq. 4.
QL
(4)  LQL  =  0.5AQL + 5(BQL +QQL
where AQ   = qualitative loss rate per ton paddy per storage
period in project storage (%); and
B    = qualitative loss rate per ton paddy and storage
QL period in temporary storage (Z).
7.        The weighted average loss rates for paddy loaded to and moving
through project storage, as calculated by Eqs. 3 and 4, are shown in Annex 3,
Table 4, col. 2. The quantitative and qualitative loss rates for paddy in
project and temporary storage used in these calculations are discussed below.
8.        The average storage period in project storage is determined with
reference to milling capacity, expected volume of paddy moved through project
storage and the supply of paddy for milling from sources other than project
storage. In the representative rice mill-cum-project storage case, it is
assumed that:
(a)  milling capacity equals 6 tons of rice per hour, equivalent
to 9.2 tons of paddy per hour, resulting in a daily process-
ing capacity of 145 tons of paddy per day (2 x 8 hrs shifts);
(b)  on the average, two-thirds of the milling input are provided
directly from procurement and/or from neighboring temporary
storage and one-third from project storage; and-
(c)  project storage of 5,000 tons capacity is filled once at the
beginning of the procurement season (January) and once at
the end of the season prior to the start of the monsoon
(April-May).
In this case, the average period of paddy in the project storage is approxi-
mately two months (= 52 milling days). 1/ Using the estimates for annual rates
of losses in project storage (Table 4, p. 2) the quantitative loss per ton of
paddy in project storage (AQT in Eq. 3) during the first year of operation is
0.17% (i.e., 2/12 x 1.0%). Similarly, the qualitative loss per ton of paddy
(A in Eq. 4) during year 1 is 0.67% (i.e., 2/12 x 4%).
QL
1/   Average storage period (expressed in number of milling days) = 0.5
(storage capacity/average paddy removals per milling day) i.e., 0.5
(5,000 tons/1/3 x 145 tons).



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        The Average Period of Paddy in Temporary Storage.  Paddy transferred
to project storage at the end of the procurement season from temporary stores
is assumed to have been on the average one month in such temporary storage. 1/
Quantitative and qualitative loss rates for temporary storage (B   and B   in
Eqs. 3 and 4) are both accordingly 1% (Annex 3, Table 4, p. 2). QT           QL
"Without Project" Situation
10.       It is assumed that in the case that no permanent storage facilities
of the kind proposed in the project were to be built, temporary stores of
equivalent capacity (i.e., 5,000 tons per depot) would be constructed at the
new mills. 1/ Furthermore, these temporary stores would, similar to the "with
project" situation, be filled once at the beginning of the procurement season
and once at the end of the season (paddy transferred from other temporary
stores to support milling operations during the wet season).
11.       The average storage period of paddy is 2.5 months based on half of
the throughput averaging 2 months in store at mill and the other half averaging
3 months in storage (1 month prior to and 2 months following transfer). The
quantitative and qualitative storage losses for paddy in temporary storage for
a period of 2.5 months are 2.5% and 9.5%, respectively as indicated in Annex 3,
Table 4, p. 2.
1/   Temporary storage in the project area has traditionally been used toward
the end of the procurement season and paddy has been stored between March
and July but generally for a period of three months or less.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
List of Tables on Economic Analysis
Introduction     Basis for Estimation of Storage Losses in New Storage Component
Table 1        Economic Analysis
New Storage Component (100,000 T)
Table 2        Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
New Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Timber Version
Table 3        Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
New Storage Unit (5,000 T) - Prefabricated Steel Version
Table 4        Estimates of Grain Losses
Quantitative and Qualitative
Table 5        Economic Value of Rice and Paddy
Table 6        Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Rehabilitation of Permanent Godowns
Table 7        Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Rice Wagon Rehabilitation and Transshipment Store
Table 8        Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Rice Transport
Table 9        Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Road Transportation vs. Storage
Table 10       Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Water Transportation vs. Storage
Table 11       Quantity of Paddy in Store by Month



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
New Storage Cornponent (1000,000 T) 1/
(1,000 Kyats)
Permanent Storage (With Proiect)                        Temporary Storage (Without Project)
Investment     Operating      Total      Storage        Investment       Operating      Total      Storage         Incremental    Incremental
Cost 2/       Cost 4/       Cost       Losses 5/        Cost 6/         Cost 4/       Cost       Losses 5/          Cost           Benefit
Year       C               C             c3          B               C4 -            C5            C6          B2               C3-C6           BI -B2
1        34,518             -        34,518           -             690                -         690             -           33,828                -
2        43,243         1,092        44,335     -1,740            1,153              582        1,735      11,598           42,600             9,858
3        44,729         2,967        47,696     -3,240           1,559             1,261       2,820       25,129           44,876            21,889
4             -         3,695         3,695      -4,572           1,502            1,940        3,442      38,660               253           34,088
5             -         3,695         3,695     -4,164            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,496
6             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
7             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996           1,502            1,940        3,442       38,660               253           34,664
8             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940       3,499       38,660               196           34,664
9             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
10             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,502            1,940       3,442       38,660               253           34,664
11             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
12             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
13             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,502            1,940       3,442       38,660               253           34,664
14             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996           1,559             1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
15        12,456         3,695        16,155     -3,996           1,559             1,940        3,499      38,660            12,652           34,664                  o
16        14,532         3,695        18,227     -3,996           1,502             1,940        3,442      38,660            14,785           34,664
17        14,532         3,695        18,227     -3,996           1,559            1,940        3,499       38,660            14,728           34,664
18             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996           1,559            1,940        3,499       38,660               196           34,664
19             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,502            1,940       3,442       38,660               253           34,664
20             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
21             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
22             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,502            1,940        3,442      38,660               253           34,664
23             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
24             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,559            1,940        3,499      38,660               196           34,664
25             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,502            1,940        3,442      38,660               253           34,664
26             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996           1,559             1,940       3,499       38,660               196           34,664
27             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996           1,559            1,940         3,499      38,660               196           34,664
28             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996            1,502            1,940        3,442      38,660               253           34,664
29             -         3,695         3,695     -3,996           1,559            1,940         3,499      38,660               196           3.4,664
30        -7,331 3/      3,695         3,636     -3,996           1,559            1,940        3,499       38,660           -7,135            34,664
Economic Rate of Return: 28.1%
1/  Based on 15 timber units of 2x2,500 T each and 5 prefabricated steel units of 2x2,500 T each and annual throughput equaling twv  timnes thi l
storage capacity.
2/  Based on economic investment cost data given in Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3. The project's 20 units of 5,000 T unit storage will be phased as
follows: 1st year, 6 timber units; 2nd year, 5 timber and 2 prefabricated steel units and 3rd year, 4 timber and 3 prefabricated steel units.
3/  Residual values of godowns and equipment calculated on the basis of useful life of 30 years for godowns and 15 years for equipment and on
straight line depreciation.
4/  Based on operating costs data given in Annex 1, Table 10.
5/ Based on phasing of investment as indicated in footnote 2 and storage losses as showii in Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3 "with project storage losses".
6/  Based on economic investmient Coat data given in Annex 3, Table 2; phasing as shown in footnote 2.
October 13, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Beniefit Analysis fer 5,000 Ton Storage Unit - Timber Version
(1,000 Kyats)
Permanent Storage (With Project)                         Temporary Storage (Without Project)
Investment      Operating      Total     Storage           Investment      Operating      Total      Storage         Incremental          Incremental
Cost 1/        Cost 2/       Cost      Losses 3/           Cost 4/        Cost 5/       Cost       Losses 6/          Cost                Benefit
Year        Cl              C2           C3          Bi                 C4            C5            C6          B2               C3-C6                 B1-B2
1        5,753              -         5,753           -              115              -           115            -              5,638                   -
2            -            182           182        -290               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,643
3            -            182           182        -250               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,683
4             -            182          182        -222              115             97           212       -1,933                -30               1,711
5            -            182           182        -222               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,711
6            -            182           182        -222               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,711
7            -            182           182        -222              115             97           212       -1,933                -30              1,711
8            -            182           182        -222               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,711
9            -             182          182        -222               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,711
10            -             182          182        -222              115             97           212       -1,933                -30               1,711
11            -             182          182        -222               58             97            155      -1,933                 27               1,711
12            -             182          182        -222               58             97           155       -1,933                 27               1,711
13             -            182          182        -222              115             97            212      -1,933                -30               1,711
14            -             182          182        -222               58             97            155      -1,933                 27               1,711
15        2,076             182        2,257        -222               58             97           155       -1,933              2,103               1,711
16            -             182          182        -222              115             97            212      -1,933                -30               1,711                               F'
17             -            182           182       -222               58             97            155      -1,933                 27               1,711                               1
18.           -             182          182        -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
19            -             182          182        -222               115             97           212      -1,933                -30               1,711
20             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
21             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
22             -            182           182       -222               115             97           212      -1,933                -30               1,711
23             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
24             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
25             -            182           182       -222               115             97           212      -1,933                -30               1,711
26             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
27             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
28             -            182           182       -222               115             97           212      -1,933                -30               1,311
29             -            182           182       -222                58             97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
30             -            182           182       -222               58              97           155      -1,933                 27               1,711
Economic Rate of ReLurn:  29.4%
/  Base Cost (See Annex 1, Table 4) plus physical contingencies.  Aeration and mechanical handling equipment including installation will be
replaced in the fifteenth year.                                                                                                                  -
2/  Arnnex 1, Table l0("Economic Timber Godown" column).
3/  Annex 3, Table 4, column 4.  Annual throughput assumed to equal double storage capacity.
4/  WithouL project, temporary godowns will have to be built at Fisiancial Cost of K 144,000 for initial investment and K 72,000 each for                                        m
2t,d and 3rd years, to be repeated every 4th year.  SCF (.80) is used to estimate the economic cost.
5/  Annex l. Table 10 ("Economic Temporary Godown" column).
6/  Annex 3, Table 4, column 7.
October 14, 1980



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economlic Cost/Benefit Analysis for 5,000 Ton Storage Unit - Prefabricated Steel Version
(1,000 Kyats)
Permanent Storage (Witt, Proiect)                               Temporary Storage (Without Project
Investment        Operating       Total       Storage            Investment       Operating        Total      Storage           Incremental        Incremental
Cost 1/          Cost 2/        Cost        Losses 3/            Cost 4/         Cost 5/         Cost       Losses 6/             Cost             Benefit
Year         CI                C2             C3          BI                   c4              C5             C6           B2                 C3C6               B-B2
1         7,239                 -         7,239           -                  115               -            115              -              7,124                 -
2             -               193            193       -290                   58              97            155        -1,933                   38            1,643
3             -               193            193       -250                   58              97            155        -1,933                   38            1,683
4              -              193            193       -222                  115              97            212        -1,933                  -19            1,711
5              -              193            193       -222                   58              97            155.       -1,933                   38            1,711
6              -              193            193       -222                   58              97             155       -1,933                   38            1,711
7             -               193            193       -222                  115              97            212        -1,933                 -19             1,711
8              -              193            193       -222                   58              97             155       -1,933                   38            1,711
9              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
10              -              193            193       -222                  115              97            212        -1,933                  -19            1,711
11              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
12              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1, 711
13              -              193            193       -222                  115               97            212       -1,933                  -19            1,711
14             -               193            193       -222                   58              97             155       -1,933                   38            1,711
15         2,076               193         2,269        -222                   58               97            155       -1,933               2,114             1,711
16             -               193            193       -222                  115               97            212       -1,933                  -19            1,711
17              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
18              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
19             -               193            193       -222                  115               97            212       -1,933                  -19            1,711
20              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
21              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
22              -              193            193       -222                  115               97            212       -1,933                  -19            1,711
23              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
24              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
25              -              193            193       -222                  115               97            212       -1,933                  -19            1,711
26              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
27              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
28              -              193            193       -222                  115               97            212       -1,933                  -19            1,7t1
29              -              193            193       -222                   58               97            155       -1,933                   38            1,711
30             -               193            193       -222                   58              97             155       -1,933                   38            1,711
Economic Rate of Returni: 23.07.
I/  base cost (See Aninex 1, Table 4) plus physical contingencies. Aeration and mechaniical handlitng equipment including  installation will be
replaced in the fifteenth year.
2/  Anntex l, iable 10 ("Economic Prefabricated Steel" columnn).
3/  Anniex 3, Table 4, columni 4. Annriual thiroughput asaumed to be equal to double storage capacity.                                                                    >
4!  See Antnex 3, Table 3, footnote 4.                                                                                                                                  tr Z
5/  Annex 1, Table 10 ("Economic Temporary Godownt" column).
6/  Anintx 3, T able 4, column 4.
octobel  18, 1980)



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Estimates of Storage Losses--New Storage Component
With Project                                                  Without Project
(Permanent Storage)                                           (Temporary Storage)
Loss rate per         Loss per        Loss per               Loss rate per           Loss per ton       Loss per
Value of paddy      storage period 2/      ton paddy       10,000 ton paddy       storage period 3/           paddy          10,000 ton
Kyatal T     1/     _     W2               (3)=(a X()      (1.000 Kvae                                        xats (  6)1X5)  (I.000 Kyats)
1.  Quantitative Losses 1/
Year 1                      1,455                  .667                 9.705            97.0                    2.50                 36.375              363.7
2                      1,455                  .583                8.483             84.8                    2.50                 36.375              363.7
3-30                   1,455                  .583                8.483             84.8                    2.50                 36.375              363.7
2.  Qualitative Losses  1/
Year 1                      1,652                 1.167                19.279            192.8                   9.50                156.940              1569.4
2                      1,652                 1.000               16.520            165.2                    9.50                156.940             1569.4
3-30                   1,652                  .833               13.761            137.6                    9.50                156.940             1569.4
3. Total Losses (1+2)
Year 1                                                                 28.984            289.8                                       193.31               1933.1
2                                                                25.003            250.0                                        193.31              1933.1
3-30                                                             22.244            222.4                                        193.31              1933.1
1/ Quantitative losses are evaluated at an economic ex-godown price of paddy of 1,455 Kyats per Ton.  Qualitative losses are measured as reductions in the
FOB price Ragoon estimated at K 2,542/Ton rice equivalent K 1,652 per ton of paddy.  The derivations of both prices are shown in Annex 3, Table 5.
2/  Calculated using eqs. 3 and 4 in Annex 3 "Basis for calculating Storage Losses in New Storage Component" and using annual loss estimates (see Annex 3,
Table 4, page 2 11.2. Project Storage) Based on an average storage period of 2 months for all paddy in project storage and of 1 month for paddy in
temporary storage prior to transfer to project storage.                                                                                                          . I1I
3/  Based ori an average storage period of 2.5 months in temporary storage (Annex 3 "Basis for calculating Storage Losses in New Storage Component").  For   f Diz
montl,ly loss estimate see Annex 3, Table 4, page 2 I.  Temporary storage.
October 14, 1980



-74                              ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 2
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Estimates of Paddy Storage Losses
1. Temporary Storage 1/
Losses (%)
Duration of Storage      Quantitative      Qualitative
(months)
1                    1.0               1.0
2                    2.0               6.5
3                    3.0              12.5
4                    4.0              15.0
5                    5.0              16.5
Source: Planning and Milling Department, AFPTC and estimates by Dec. 78 mission.
1/ Temporary storage is used from March to July, but usually not longer than
three months.
2. Traditional Timber Storage
Annual Rate of Losses (%)
Without improved                With improved
pest control                    pest control
Quantitative    Qualitative    Quantitative    Qualitative
Before Rehab.         6                4              4                4
After Rehab.          4                3              2                3
Source: Project Preparation Report and estimates by Dec. 78 mission.
3. Project Storage
Annual Rate of Losses (%)
Quantitative    Qualitative
Year 1           1.0              4.0
2            .5              3.0
3            .5              2.0
Source: Estimates by Dec. 78 mission.
1/ Assuming gradual reduction of qualitative losses as staff becomes more
familiar with aeration techniques.
October 6, 1980



-75 -               ANNEX 3
Table 5
BURMA
'GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Value of Rice and Paddy
Kyats/T       US$/ T
1. Projected 1990 price of Thai 5% f.o.b.
Bangkok in 1980 constant dollars  1/               3,631          550
2.  Less 30% price discount 2/                           908          165
3.  Imputed price for Burmese rice                     2,542          385
4.  Less:  export expenses                                25            4
forwarding to Rangoon                         52             8
packing and handling                          65            10
5.  Price of rice ex-mill                              2,400          363
6.  Less Milling costs (net)  3/                         162           24
7. Price of rice ex-godown (equivalent to
price of 1.538 MT of paddy at 65%
rice recovery rate)                                2,238          339
8.  Price of paddy ex-godown                           1,455          220
1/ Source: Economic Analysis and Projections Department.
2/ Recently, the export prices for Burmese rice have been approximately
30% below that of Thai (5% broken).
3   Based on milling costs of K216/MT of rice and a value of by products of
K54/MT of rice.
October 3, 1980



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Rehabilitation of Permanent Godowns
Year              Costs 1/              Benefits -Net Benefits
------------in Thousand Kyat---                  -
1                  681                    -                       (681)
2                2,212                    730                   (1,482)
3                3,638                  3,096                     (542)
4                  288                  7,829                    7,541
5                  288                  7,829                    7,541
6                  288                  7,088                   6,800
7                  288                 4,732                    4,444
Net Present Value
at 10%        6,453                 21,524
at 12%         6,254                20,087
Benefit/Cost Ratio
at 10%                 3.3 :1
at 12Z                 3.2 :1
ERR in %                     >50
1/ Including cost of incremental pest control program and jetty
rehabilitation and physical contingencies of 15% on rehabilita-
tion investment and of 5% on pesticides and pest control equip-
ment.
2/ Based on 2% savings in quantitative losses (all godown rehabilita-
tion) and 1% savings in qualitative losses (major rehabilitation
of AFPTC owned and rented godowns onlyl.
Feb. 13, 1979



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Rice Wagon Rehabilitation and Transshipment Store
1/                     2/
Year                 Costs -               Benefits-            Net Benefits
- - --in Thousand Kyat--- -----
1                     865                                            (865)
2                   1,883                    -                     (1,883)
3-6                   -                    4,525                   4,525
7                    (745)                 4,525                   5,270
Net Present Value
at 10%                   1,959                 14,172
at 12X                   1,936      -          13,000
Benefit Most Ratio
at 10%                           7.2 :1
at 12%                           6.7 :1
ERR in %                    >50
1/ Cost of transshipment store accrue in year 2 and would amount to K 2,084,000.
Residual value is based on economic life of foundations and plinth of 30 ye,ars
and a utilization of only 5 years. All costs include physical contingencies.
2/ Benefits are based on transportation cost savings, for details see Table 6.
Feb. 13, 1979



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Rice Transport
With Project            Without Project           Net
Quantity       Cost       Quantity    Cost          Savings
(tons)   ('000 Kyats)    (tons)  ('000 Kyats) ('000 Kyats)
I. Road Transport
To Mandalay                       -           -      44,882       9,268
To Thazi                          -           -      19,197       2,928
Subtotal                        -           -      64,079      12,196      12,196
II.  Rail Transport
To Mandalay                 112,018       5,511      67,136       2,772
To Thazi                     50,883       2X,025     31.686       1,161
Subtotal                  162,901       7,536      98,822       3,933      -3,603
III. Transshipment 1Handling1-/
At Mandalay                 112,018         896      67,136         537
At Thazi                     50,883         407      31,686          253
Subtotal                  162,901       1,303      98,882         790        -513
Total                                     8,839                  16,919
IV.  Net Benefit
Financial                                                                      8,080
Economic 2/                                                                    4,525
_                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-3 PD
1/  Handling Cost includes K6/ton for labor and K2/ton for loss and damage to rice    z
2/  Using a general conversion factor of 0.56                                                X W
February 8, 1979



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Table 9
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Road Transportation vs. Storage
1.  Technical Assumptions-/
-Loading capacity per truck                                     6.5 metric tons
-Annual mileage per truck                                    15,000 miles
-Days in operation p.a.                                         200 days (56%)
-Days in operation during main procurement
period (Jan.-March)                                             51 days
-Average mileage per day                                         75 miles
-Ton miles capacity (Jan.-March)
(51 days x 75 miles x 6.5 tons)                             24,862 ton miles
-Payload factor 2/                                               50%
-Actual ton miles available per truck during
main procurement period (Jan.-March)                        12,431 ton miles
-Trucks required to transport 1,000 m. tons over
one mile from Jan.-March                                       .08 truck
2.  Economic Cost of 6.5 ton Truck                                Cost in Kyat
2.1.  Investment Cost (CIF Rangoon)                               133,000
2.2.  Operating Cost (15,000 miles)
Fuel & oil                                                    4,170
Tires                                                         2,690
Repair & maintenance                                          6,630
Crew                                                          6,380
- Interest (10%)                                               1,987
Total operating cost p.a.                                  21,857
Operating cost (Jan.-March)                                 5,464
3. Economic Cost per Ton Mile 3/
3.1.  Annual Cost per Truck
Annualized investment(assuming economic life of
truck of 10 years and 10% interest on investment)            21,645
Operating cost (Jan.-March)                                   5,464
Total                                                      27,109
3.2. Cost of transporting 1,000 m.-tonss-over one
mile (Jan.-March) 27,109 x .08                                2,169
3.3   Cost per ton mile during Jan.-March period                     2.17
4. Road Transportation vs. Storage
4.1.  Cost of storage per m. ton 4/                                 76.00
4.2. Breakeven cost between road transport and storage
is reached at a distance of 35 miles (76.00:2.17)
1/  Sources:  Project Preparation leport, Triad Transport Sector Study, Road
Transport Corporation.
2/  Assuming that during Jan.-March truck would only transport paddy.
3/ Assuming that truck would be purchased to replace additional storage by
transporting paddy during Jan.-March from procurement centers to existing
storage sites.
4/ Annualized investment cost assuming economic life of 30 years for foundations,
10 years for aeration equipment, 20 years for all other components and 10%
interest on investment.
February 7, 1979



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
Table 10
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis
Water Transportation vs. Storage
1.  Technical Assumptionsl/
-Loading capacity (1 power barge, 2 cargo barges)                  360 m. tons
-Mileage during 3 month period (Jan.-March) 2/                   1,950 miles
-Ton miles capacity (Jan.-March) (1,950 x 360)                 702,000 ton miles
-Payload factor 3/                                                  50%
-Actual ton miles available per barge set during
main procurement period (Jan.-March)                          351,000 ton miles
-Barges required to transport 1,000 m. tons over
one mile from Jan.-March                                        .0028 barge set
2.  Economic Cost of 360 ton Barge Set                             Cost in Kyat
2.1.  Investment Cost (CIP Rangoon)                              2,579,500
2.2.  Operating Cost
Fuel & oil                                                    52,140
Repair & maintenance                                          15,460
Crew                                                          24,000
Interest (10%)                                                 9,160
Total operating cost p.a.                                  100,760
Operating cost (Jan.-March)                                 25,190
3. Economic Cost per Ton Mile
3.1.  Annual Cost per Barge Set 4/
Annualized investment (assuming economic life of
power barge of 10 years and of cargo barges of
15 years and 10% interest on investment)                    396,740
Operating costs (Jan.-March)                                  25,190
Total                                                     421,930
3.2.  Cost transporting 1,000 m. tons over one mile
(Jan.-March) 421,930 x .0028                                  1,181
3.3.  Cost per ton mile during Jan.-March period                      1.18
4. Water Transportation vs. Storage
4.1.  Cost of storage per m. ton 5/                                  76.00
4.2. Breakeven cost between water transportation and storage
is reached at a distance of 64 miles (76.00:1.18)
1/ Source: Project Preparation Report
2/  Based on 50 miles per day and including about 2 days unloading time per trip.
3/  Assuming only paddy would be transported from Jan.-March.
4/  Assuming barges would be purchased to replace storage and to transport
paddy during Jan.-March to existing storage sites.
5/  For details see Table 7, Footnote 4/.
February 7, 1979



-81-
ANNEX 3
Table 11
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Quantity of Paddy in Store by Month
(in percent of annual procurement)
Quantity of
Mouth                           Paddy in Store                     Procurement Rate
December                               2.3                               4.6
January                               27.8                              32.7
February                              54.0                              35.9
March                                 66.8                              22.6
April - 1st week                      68.6                               4.2
April                                 61.2                               -
May                                   51.5
June                                  41.7
July                                  32.0
August                                22.2-
September                             12.5
October                                2.8
November
Jan. 29, 1979



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Specification of Timber or Prefabricated Steel
Godown Storage Unit of 5,000 Ton with Mechanical
Handling and Precleaning Facilities
Scope of the Project
1.        To construct new storage capacity of 100,000 tons at 20 sites along-
side 20 rice mills of 6 TPH which are going to be constructed with loans
extended by ADB and OECF.
2.        To construct at each rice mill site, two storage buildings side by
side with capacity of 2,500 tons each completed with aeration, precleaning,
mechanized handling facilities and grain temperature control system.
Building Type
3.        The storage building will be either constructed of local timber (at
15 locations) or of prefabricated steel (at 5 locations).
Timber Structure
4.        The timber structure for storage of paddy measures 50 ft x 225 ft
x 14 ft, with a gable roof sloped 30 degrees. The capacity for each building
is 2,500 tons at an average storage height of about 14 ft.
5.        Timber building comprising of four partition frames (forming five
equal compartments) and two gable ends, with longitudinal timber ties. A
24 gauge corrugated galvanized iron roof covering is supported by timber pur-
lins and rafters on main timber trusses with horizontal bracing flat mild
steel wind ties. The walling is butt and splined timber fixed on timber
frames with wire nails. On one side of the building there are five openings
(one for each compartment) 10 ft high and 6 ft wide equipped with a bulkhead
and a pair of timber door leaves. The building has longitudinal vents along
the entire length of the building between the main roof and monitor roof.
6.        The floor is timber (Pyinkado planks on Pyinkado joists) laid on
brick bearing walls and the floor level is 5 ft above surrounding terrain on
account of heavy rainfall. The foundations are reinforced concrete type and
masonary. A general layout of the proposed building type is shown in the
accompanying drawings.
Arrangement of Buildings
7.        Two storage buildings each with a capacity of 2,500 tons are to
be located at the sites in manner shown in the accompanying drawings. The site
should be located in an area where the flood level will not be higher than the



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
floor level of the storage buildings (about 4 ft above grade). The buildings
are spaced adequately. At locations with high flood levels, a plinth level of
5 ft instead of the normal 4 ft may be suitable to keep the conveyor flood-
free.
8.        The building is divided into 5 compartments with full height parti-
tions. Each compartment is provided with a 10-ft high and 6 ft wide door
equipped with a bulk head and a door leaves. The cross partitions should meet
the requirements set forth for the walls, namely resisting the loads from the
stored paddy and self cleaning feature.
Masonry Foundation and Timber Floor
9.        The width and depth below grade shall be modified to meet the safe
soil bearing requirements, in accordance with the results of soil tests
at the site. Adequate steel reinforcement would be provided with footings
for the side and end walls and partitions. Timber floor (Pyinkado planks on
Pyinkado joists) would be placed upon masonry load bearing walls to give a
height of 5 ft of the floor level above grade. Top soil would be removed to
undisturbed soil prior to adding the fill. The floor is to support a uni-
formly distributed load of 540 lbs/sq ft.
Materials, Design Loads and Design Stresses
10.       All timber for building shall be first class Pyinkado (Xylia
Dolabriformis) having allowable working stress of 2,500 psi in bending and
longitudinal shear stress of 250 psi. The structural use of timber shall con-
form to design considerations--for timber currently used as standard practice
in Construction Corporation.
11.       For load calculations, a volume weight of 37 lbs/cu ft of paddy
shall be used. All walls and partitions shall withstand a horizontal load of
2,930 lbs per linear foot of wall length, varying from zero at the top to the
maximum of 418.5 lbs/sq ft at the bottom. All walls and partitions shall
support a vertical load of one-half the horizontal load for 1,465 lbs per
linear foot of-wall length. This varies from a maximum of 1,465 lbs at the
base of the wall to zero at its top. The magnitude and distribution of wind
loads for design shall be in accordance with the Burmese practice. In the
absence of adequate information, weather records for wind velocities shall be
interpreted in an appropriate manner consistent with acceptable design practice.
Catwalk and Storage
12.       A catwalk of 6 ft wide is provided under the peak of the roof running
the full length of the building for occasional inspection of stored grains and
intake belt conveyor maintenance. The catwalk placed at the end of the belt
conveyor is made of timber planking spaced about 2 in apart, fixed on timber
joist running along the full length of the conveyor. A mild steel ladder is
connected to the catwalk at the end of the warehouse where the intake hopper
is located. For security measures, the ladder is kept under lock and key.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Prefabricated Steel Structure
13.       The prefabricated steel structure would have to be designed according
to the same design considerations and rough dimensions as given to the timber
structure, taking into account the specific considerations regarding accommo-
dation of mechanical handling equipment.
Aeration System
14.       There will be five compartments in each storage building.  Each
compartment would be provided with two special triangular, wooden foldable
aeration ducts, each 46 ft long and connected to an opening of appropriate
size in the side wall, where a movable, axial, centrifugal or mixed floor type
fan can be mounted. There would be 10 movable fans, so that 5 out of 10
compartments of the storage uniis 5an be aerated simultaneously. The iir flow
rated would be 1/3 cfm/bu (16 m /m h), requiring a capacity of 6,800 m /h
(400 cft/min) per fan at a static pressure of about 1.5 in water gauge.
15.       The aeration blowers shall be driven by electric motor coupled to
the fan directly or through standard "V" belts. They shall be robustly con-
structed to give trouble free service. The rotors shall be dynamically
balanced and supported on ball or roller bearings. The material used shall
be capable of withstanding the effect of hot air drawn through the air heaters.
Mechanical Handling and Cleaning
Flow Process
16.       The incoming paddy is hoppered by manual labor into a receiving
hopper having a capacity to supply a sufficient intake capacity for the bucket
elevator which convey the uncleaned paddy into the precleaner. The cleaned
paddy is to be fed into the building using the bucket elevator and the intake
belt conveyor. The stored grain shall be levelled by a mobile mechanical auger.
An unloading conveyor preferably of the chain conveyor type similar to the one
shown in the accompanying drawings would be mounted underneath the floor in
the center of each building. The unloading conveyors are connected with the
dumping hopper in the elevator pit, each by a short inclined belt conveyor,
that can be pivoted onto horizontal position to raise it to above flood level.
The grain will be conveyed to the sacking spout or into the adjacent rice mill
for processing using the bucket elevator. A diesel generator of 40 KW will be
installed to provide electric power for aeration, precleaning and mechanical
handling facilities.
Cleaner-Cum-Scalpers
17.       The cleaner-cum-scalpers, which shall have a capacity of 25 tons
per hour each, shall be designed so as to remove impurities, immature grain
and dust. They shall be completed with aspiration system to handle light
impurities and dust. The aspiration system shall be complete with cyclones
and fans and arrangements for the disposal of light ipurities and dust by



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
bagging. Arrangements shall be provided for disposal of the 1ieavy impurities
including ferrous material by bagging. Magnetic separation shall be provided
for separating ferrous material.
18.       The sheet metal used for the construction of the cleaner-cum-scalpers
shall not be less than 1/16 in thick and provision shall be made for the easy
replacement of parts which are subject to wear and tear. Cleaner-cum-scalpers
shall be provided with supporting steel construction and cyclones.
Elevators
19.       The elevators shall be of the self-supporting type of sturdy con-
struction and fabricated in heavy gauge steel. Sealed bearings with lubrication
arrangements shall be provided. Pulleys at top and bottom shall be of steel
or high grade cast iron, crown-faced, double keyed, with non-slip surface and
2 in wider than the elevator belt. A feed control door and belt tensioning
device shall be provided. Strong and durable belts at least 1 in wider than
the length of buckets shall be nylon or canvas reinforced, rubber impregnated.
The belts shall be properly pre-elongated before assembling the buckets. The
buckets pressed or welded, with wear resistant lips, shall be of heavy gauge
steel or other approved material to resist the abrasive reaction of paddy and
shall be fixed to the belts with cadmium plated bolts, nuts and nylon washer
or "nylock" nuts or other suitable lock nuts, or by other approved fastening
device. Bolt jointing shall be smooth and bolt heads shall be flushed to avoid
knocking against the elevators and shall be totally enclosed.
20.       Suitable arrangements for full discharge of buckets without damage
to buckets shall be made. The inside of the elevator trunking shall be
totally smooth for the unhindered operation of the buckets and belts. Inspec-
tion doors with snap-lock arrangements shall be provided. Bottom section
shall have slide-in doors for cleaning or to provide access in case of a
locking. The elevator shall be driven by electric motor through belt, chain
or gear reduction. The service platform with approach ladder and safety cage
shall be provided. The elevator shall be of extra heavy duty construction.
Each elevator shall be provided with a three way valve and ducting as required.
The required capacity of each elevator is 25 ton/hr of paddy having a volume
weight of paddy 37 lbs/cu ft and be 25 ft and 60 ft high, respectively.
Belt Conveyors: (Intake)
21.       The length of intake belt conveyor is about 220 ft and provided with
a movable discharge car which can easily distribute paddy into each compartment.
The belt conveyor has a capacity of 25 ton/hr of paddy having a volume weight
of 37 lbs/cu ft. The speed of the belt conveyor must not exceed 4 ft/sec. The
belt conveyors shall be of rugged construction with 35 ft troughed rollers
running in sealed ball or roller bearings with arrangements for lubrication.
Endless rubberized multiply belt with tensioning arrangements, shall be
provided. Head and tail pulleys shall be 2 in wider than the belt and shall
be crowned and manufactured in high grade cast iron or steel. The diameters
of the pulley shall be suitable for the belt used. The conveyors shall be
driven by drum type electric motors.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
Unloading Conveyor
22        An unloading conveyor (preferably of the chain conveyor type similar
to the one shown in the accompanying drawing) would be mounted underneath the
floor in the center of each building. The unloading belt conveyor must be a
fully enclosed self-cleaning flight conveyor for handling a wide variety of
granular, free flowing bulk stored grains. The chain of the conveyor must be
a single strand dependable link belt class, combination of chain made of cast
center links, steel side bars with machined holes and cottered or rivetted
pins. The flights shall be made of flexible non-metallic material stiffened
by steel plates and bolted to link belt attachment links. Contour of flights
must fit trough contour to provide effective cleaning action. Troughs must be
made of standard heavy steel U troughs with removable covers and supported by
feet located at trough joints or by intermediate saddles. The return strand
of chain is carried on double return guide bars through the upper area of the
trough. Trough must be provided with discharge spouts and gates. Head section
must include an oversize discharge spout and built-in head shaft operating in
link-belt and flange mounted, self aligning ball bearings. The total required
length is approximately 220 ft. For each compartment at least three discharge
spouts shall be provided. The whole length of the unloading conveyor must be
provided with easily removable covers for maintenance and mechanical failure.
Safety switch and tensioning arrangements shall be provided. The capacity of
the conveyor shall be 25 ton/hr of paddy having a volume weight of 37 lbs/cu ft.
Short Belt Conveyors
23.       Two short belt conveyors are connected to the unloading conveyors
for conveying the grain to the sacking spouts or into the adjacent rice mill
for processing using the bucket elevator. The belt conveyor shall be of
rugged construction with 35 ft troughed rollers running in sealed ball or
roller bearings with arrangements for lubrication. Endless rubberized multi-
ply belt with tensioning arrangements shall be provided. Head and tail pulley
shall be 2 in wider than the belt and shall be crowned and manufactured in
high grade cast iron or steel. The diameters of the pulleys shall be suitable
for the belts used. The conveyors shall be driven by drum type electric
motors.
Diesel Generating Set
24.       The diesel generating set shall comprise an electric starting engine
directly coupled to a generator mounted on a common skid type bedplate complete
with all necessary accessories for manual push botton starting and stopping or
shall have in addition provision for manual crank starting. Diesel engine
shall be of the vertical in line, monoblock, four stroke, naturally aspirated
or pressure charged, water cooled, direct injection, compression ignition
type, capable of cold starting.
25.       Diesel engine shall be capable of continuous output of at least 15%
more than the specified generator rating after derating 5% for temperature and
humidity after deducting the power take off for engine driven auxilliaries.
The engine generating set shall be capable of an overload of 10% for 1 hour
in any period of 12 hours running without affecting the normal life of the set.



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
26.       Generator shall be of the foot mounted, drip proof, screen protected,
revolving field, salient pole type with damper windings, Class E insulation,
brushless, self regulating type with incline exciter and control system cap-
able of maintaining voltage constant with + 2-1/2% at all loads and a power
factor between 0.80 lagging and unity.  The full load output voltage shall be
440/220 volt, 3 phase, 4 wire, 50 Hz with neutral solidly earthed generator
and exciter shall be filled with ball and or roller bearings. A suitable
terminal box shall be provided with, frequency meter, volt meter with selector
switch, ammeter, excitation current control device, kilowatt meter.   All
necessary cabling and auxiliary wiring between the diesel generating set and
switch boards shall be included. All necessary switch gears, fuse box and
switch boards shall be provided with generating sets. The maximum output
capacity of the generator shall be 40 KW.
Gutter and Downtake Pipes
27.       Each of the buildings shall be provided with gutters and sufficient
down take pipes.
Temperature Monitoring Systems
28.       A temperature monitoring system would be installed to permit the
grain temperature at each of 10 locations in each building. Copper constant
and thermocouples would be used as sensing devices. Two thermocouples would
be used at each location; one about 3 ft above the floor and the other about
3 ft below the surface. A suitable indicating potentiometer would be used to
read the temperature at each location.



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed 2 x 2500 Tons Capacity Timber Paddy Godown with Cleaning and Handling Facilities
*~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I_                                                                    Sa
RONT h ELEVATION
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IF 11               U          Th   I  li                      ______
FRONT ELEVATION
SCALE: 1 INCH= 24FT.
World Bank -22195 >
ooz



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed 2 x 2500 Tons Capacity Timber Paddy Godown with Cleaning and Handling Facilities
z/t X      9l N-FEDIN PIPE
D            ^ ~~-oBUCKET I                                                  I
SIDE EL    ELEVATORV
S ALE:   1/16  IN.                                 WALK
Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b~
SIDE ELEVATION                                   rd a 2
SCALE: 1/16 IN. = 1'-0"                                                 P !
World Bank k-22197 |



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed 2 x 2500 Tons Capacity Timber Paddy Godown with Cleaning and Handling Facilities
-o  :-
_ _l;   "  '                  D            ^I'   n   ! _  .'  n    n  n                                               :                   , e  ^    '2  .~  a  .. 4  !,  ....  r  I n  is
TRIANULAR Fr--A5L x3 FRAMES  _IM,      4 x                                   / DISCHARGED CONVEYOR    -
b o1   TRIANGULAR FOLDABLE !                                              _:                                              .                      -_              J
4x3FRAMES                                              5   3'FRME
o      i    l ~ TYPE AIR DUCTS                                                                  -_:- 5"x3"FRAMES                                                       -MILL FRAME
:4 x3  FRAMES --- t                                                                                                                               i
71~~~~~2
~~~_              I-                                                                                          =--------I!i,_ ;_   !,  _                         ,. . t-41'! PR-LEAE
_    C   ;                                                                                                                                                           'I+  I r  I  7   ! ,  1l F  +  i t  /tNTAKE HOPPER
. C                              -|a e  a  10   ' t, <   ;TRIANGULAR FOLDABLE  ns
-b  I; ;:                .        81!l       !,         ,;       jjtl       ;          v         llI      TYPE AIR DUCTS    _.
U,    _        5 x 3 FRAMES __                                              8" x 3" TIMBER POSTS                                                           - "
m  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~KI
O      ,r:      i            St       \   rn   rT    E      lr    n1.r                o 1 ,      t !X         w     a      >    >     Q      T      t    i
I s   ,,    1l           ,        t;,|DISCHARGEDCONVEYOR                                        i         4 x   FRAMES
. ii, b    r    *X    _  ,!l ri    id ;3    ti  r     :    i    i       i    h i a         :s          !,41        ,1                I' j
~~~~~~~ i,                                                                            I   1i'I i    j11''i''   i           *   ' .           ''    'I
-  -o ' T  -o is -o l g - o" it s-o  s-o Is-oI^                                                                                                 ,. I! x l  FRAMES
9- .  9-9rr                               r.9-0"   - ---
45'-0"                        45'-0"                         45'-0"                          45!-0"                        45'-0"-
225'-0"
PLAN
SCALE: 1/24" - i-0"
World Bank - 22194          71
iDX
oQZ 



- 91 -
ANNEX 5
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
IDA Credit Disbursement Schedule
(Millions of US$)
Disbursements
IDA FY/Quarter                         Quarterly    Cumulative
1980/81/4                               .1             _
1981/82/1                               .7             .8
/2                               .2           1.0
/3                             1.2            2.2
/4                              3.6           5.8
1982/83/1                              1.6            7.4
/2                             1.0            8.4
/3                             1.5             9.9
/4                             3.7           13.6
1983/84/1                              1.6           15.2
/2                              1.3          16.5
/3                              1.6          18.1
/4                              3.7          21.8
1984/85/1                               .8           22.6
2                               .4          23.0
October 22, 1980



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Organization and Management
Chart 1     Organization of AFPTC
Chart 2     Organization of Planning, Projects and Finance Department
of AFPTC
Chart 3     Organization of Quality Control Unit Under Procurement and
Sales Department of AFPTC
Chart 4     Organization of Pest Control Section Under Transportation and
Handling Department of AFPTC
Chart 5     Organization of Construction Corporation
Chart 6     Implementation Schedule



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF AFPTC
Agriculture and Farm Produce Trading Corporation
Managing Director
Board of Management
I                          P 1 _ _ _,       ! rocur emen   Procuremen                           Transport
Planning, Projects        and Sales           San esDendll                                     Handling    I Amnsrto
Of f ice of          I nspection                                            and FPnance            Department I         S        ade              Milling             Departmn             Administration
Board of            Department                                        I    Department              (Paddy Rice)         (Maize, Pulses            Dept.                  G.M.                  Dept.
Management                                                                                               G.M.              & Others1                                   D    .                    Det
G.M.                  GM                    G.M.                   G.M                    G.M.                 G.M.
Irrawaddy          Pegu           Rangoon            Mon             Arakan           Sagaing         Mandalay           Magwe            Kachin          Tenasserim          Karen             Shan            Kayah
Division         Division         Division          State           Division         Division         Divsion           Diton             Stata             State            State             State            State
Consolidated     Consolidated     Consolidated                                       Consolidated       Consoldated     Conso ldaed
Township          owns             owns                                                ownship         Township         Township
1(6)          15                  (3)                                                (2)               (2) I1)
|Township  ||Township  ||Township  ||Township  ||Township  ||Township   |                              Township   |     Township  |      Township  |       Township  |      Township  |       Township      |Township 
|    (251  1    1 (27)    1     1 (17)    1 1       (8)     1 1    (12)       1    1 (20)D1      1    (16)      1 1    (12)               1 1  (4)1 1 1     (2)              ( 1  {2)  1 1     (2)     1 1      (26
Paddy           Pulses Beans and    Rice Mill Owned          Remilling            Rice Mill                                Rice Bran             Rice Bean           Warehouse              Storage          Transport Depot
Buying Depot    Other Buying Depot         by AFPTC               Plant           Privately Owned        Basic Units            Oil Mill       Standardization Plan          0j00                 Bin                   (4)
(802)                (124)                (48)        I         (6)                (800)                                      (19)                 (34)                  .(28) ,             12)>
I   E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I   I   I              s                    |                    }                    E                     |                                                iv 12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   '
Departments Involved in Pro)ecn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt>
Note 1/ No Office in Chin State         G.M. General Manager               =   Departments InvolvedinProject U                                                                                                                                  |r
World Bank - 19946



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Chart 2
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Organization of Planning, Project and Finance Department of AFPTC
|.Planning, Project and Finance Depar-tment |
|               ~~~        ~       ~~G. M.  
<RM   1                                       |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         ~~~~~Project  Financ
|   D.G.M.                                                           DGM
Programming                                         u                Sroject ImpleTrentation Unit                     Cntui         nning
A.G Il.M,                                                               Project Director                                       AG.M.
Plan ning and Storage                                                                I\
Maintenance                                                                                                                        1
Managers     4                                                   r                             
Technicians  7                           Programming       Strag  ad ety                       Mchni CI 
Others        8            |                            |-  Programing                            ImplemetatRon ec
19            I                            l         l                                          l                      \N
G.M   General Manager
1   h  I  Procurement     B udget           Stores       | Transportation~Storag Consrcit on
Townships                                                                                                             Uniti\_ 
,   \                                                   r                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Mech1I_  
\                               l                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mechanic GI   1
D.G.M.      Deputy General Manager                          \                                                                     GI           _
A.G.M.      Assistant General Manager                         \
-    li  Organizational Unit Involved in Project             N 
World Bank - 22278



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Chart 3
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Organization of Quality Control Unit Under Procurement and Sales Departnent of AFPTC
Procurement and Sales Department I
G.M.
D.G.M .
"~~~~~I                                                                 I
Procurement and              ~~~ExternaSae    I                       Quality Control 
AlG.M  A. G. M.  and Research    .
A.G.M.                       l
l          Quality Control                                 Research                                       Administration             I
Managers     5                                 Managers      8                                Manager       2
Technicians 51                                 Technicians 37                                 Others       13
56                                             45                                             1 
L __ __ __ __ _ __                                   _ __ __ __ __ _ __                              _ __ _ _ _ _ _
G. M.       General Manager
D.G. M.     Deputy General Manager
A.G.M.      Assistant General Manager
r.... -  1   Orgnaizational Unit Involved in Project
World Bank - 22279



- 96 -
ANNEX 6
Chart 4
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Organization of Pest Control Section Under Transportation and Handling Department of AFPTC
Transportation and Handling Department
G.M.
|   Transport        ll                                         Shipping            .
|   D.G.M.         .||                                          D.G.M.          l
and Transit Storage  A|G.M.                                                          A.G.M.
A.G.M.
Administration and                        Pest Control
Research Manager                            Manager
Manager       1                        Manager        1
Technicians  16                        Technicians  26
Clerks       11                                      27
27
Field Units                     Export Section
Insepctor    1                  Technicians   86
Technicians 2
G.M.         General Manager
D.G.M.       Deputy General Manager
A.G.M.       Assistant General Manager
World Bank - 22277



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Organization of Construction Corporation
CENTRAL
PEOPLE'S COUNCIL
PEOPLE'S COUNCIL                      ~~~~~MANAGING DIRECTOR              PANN
PLANNING
FINANCE & WORKS
RESEARCHI
FIVE COMMITTEES         ~        BUILDING & FINE ARTS
PRODUCTION
DIRECTOR OF                                           DIRECTOR OF                  DIRECTOR OF
ENGINEERS (PLANNING)                                  ENGINEERS (WORKS)            ENGINEERS (ROADS)
PLANNING
ARCH ITECTURE
DESIGN, QUANTITY SURVEY
AND RESEARCH              LABOR AND         AMIN.                                ROAD BRIOGESAND
STORES                 TRAINING        ACCOUNTS                                   AIRFIELDS
SANITARY                                                                     __
MECHANICAL
ELECTRICAL
DIVISION/STATE
PEOPLE'S COUNCIL                                                                              REGIONAL COMMAND ENGINEERS
I I   _   -- |   14 NOS.
TRADESMEN         CONSTRUCTION PROJECT UN'TS|
|    |                                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 NOS.
-~~                                 ~         ~~                   ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~ - - -t  - ----  -
TOWNSHIP                                         '                      '
PEOPLE'S                                   | TRADESMEN              TOWNSHIP ENGINEERS   -X           PETTY CONSTRUCTION
COUNCIL                                                                ORGANIZATION                  AND MAINTENANCE UNITS
314 NOS.                             39 NOS.
World Bank - 22276       ;' Z
rt I>
'-101



- 98 -
ANNEX  6
Chart 6
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
lst. Year        I        2nd. Year                  3rd Year      -
1981                       1982                       1983                       1984
1     2      3      4     1      2      3      4     1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4
Finalization Site Selection and             /  ///                     /  //                      /  ///                     /   /7
Land Acquisition                         /  //                      /  /7_                     /   //                     /  //
Construction of Timber Godowvns             /  //                                      /                /                    /   //
-  Finalizing Design                        7  /7/                     /  //                      /   /7                     /  //
-  Contracting with CC                        /'/                      /   //                     /  //                      /   //
-  Preparation Tender Documents////7//7/77/
for Equipment                      t          /                    /   /7                     /   /7                     /   7
-  Issue Tender for Equipment               /                          /  ///                     /  /7                      /  //
-  Receiving Evaluation and Award-          /  ///                     /  ///                     /  /7                      /  ///
ing Contract Equipment                  7  /7/                     7  /7/                    /  /7/                      7 /7/
-  Construction of Sub and Super-           /  ///                     /  //.                     /   /_                     /  //
structures and Site Work                /   /7                        /7/                        //                         //
-  Shipment Delivery of Equipment           /  """                     /  ///                     /  "/                      /  //
-  Installation of Equipment                /  //
Construction of Steel Godowns               7  /7/
-  Preliminary Design                       /  //
-  Preparation Tender Documents             /  //
for Superstructures and                                                           / /7/
Equipment                        _        /7/
-  Issue Tender/
-  Receiving Tenders, Evaluating            /   //
Award                                   /   /
-  Shipment, Delivery Super-//7
structure and Equipment                 /   /_
-  Finalizing Design Substructure           /   // ///
- Contracting with CC                       /   /_
-  Construction Foundatiorn                 /  //
- Erection of Superstructure                /  /__
-  Installation Equipment                   /  //
Storage and Jetty Rehabilitation            /  /7/
-  Create Storage Unit                      /                                                     /
-  Recruit Personnel
-  Purchase and Distribute Material         7  /        _
-  Repair                                   /   /A /
Transport                                   /  /7/
-  Contracting with BRC                         /7/
-  Tender Documents                               /
- Tendering, Evaluation and Award            /
-  Shipment and Delivery                     /  //
-  Rehabilitaiton                           /  /7/
- Transhipment Stowe Construction           /  //
Other/   "
-  Drying PilotFProject                      /   7
-  Training                                  /  //
-  Budgeting                                 /
-Technical Assistance-Engineering            / 7/
Specialists                    -ank-221-fi
World Bank - 22196



ANNEX 7
- 99 _                          Page 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Evaluation of the Construction Capacity of CC
Organization and Management
1.        The CC has a matrix organization like most GOB owned corporations,
but unlike them its Managing Director (MD) has a reasonable span of
control of five departments (Annex 6, Chart 6). However, the span of
control problem (para 6.02) has been passed on to another level. The
Works Director of CC is expected to supervise 14 regional heads and varying
nunbers of special projects. In addition, given the communications problem
and also the demands from local political and administrative leaders,
the quality control of works controlled by the regional staff sometimes
suffers. A project coordinator will be assigned the responsibility for
coordinating all civil works aspects of the new storage construction
under the proposed project. Such an assignment would strengthen the
central supervision of the implementation of the construction program by
regional command units.
Workload
2.        The CC, which dominates the construction sector in Burma, accounts
for 54% of both private and public construction and maintenance works, and
about 76% of the public sector construction. About 76% of CC's workload
is for new construction, of which 64% is for buildings and 9% for roads.
Though new road construction may increase, any diversion of personnel is
more likely to be from the road maintenance section. The workload over
the proposed project construction period is likely to be between $260-300 M;
and the proposed new storage construction would be about 7% of CC's workload.
The project is not expected to strain CC's resources.
Staffing
3.        CC is well staffed with about 360 civil engineers; each with
an average workload of about K 1.5 M ($230,000). There is a significant
unemployment amongst graduating civil engineers (according to one report
only 25% find suitable employment within 6 months of graduation). Also,
CC still has about 25% of its sanctioned positions unfilled. Therefore,
hiring additional civil engineers would not pose any administrative or
supply problems.
Quality of Works
4.        The quality of works completed by CC has been mixed.  Some of
the works have suffered due to poor quality of construction material and
insufficient control over labor. Local construction material such as brick,



- 100 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
sand and shingles, is supplied by cooperatives, who have monopoly power and,
therefore, little incentive to improve quality. Similar problems are
experienced with labor, who in some areas are unwilling to put an extra
effort to improve quality. The CC engineers are adapting to the problems
by changing to materials and construction methods which require less skill
and effort and in some cases by overdesigning.
Efficiency and Prices
5.        In last three years, CC has consistently performed better than its
budgeted operating ratio and has been authorized by GOB to pay bonus to its
workers.
Operating Ratio of the Construction Corporation
(percent)
1975/76     1976/77      1977/78
Budget                    98.9         98.0         97.0
Actual                    97.2         94.2         91.8
Even then, its construction cost has increased at a high rate (about 10%
per year) because of increases in material prices. For instance, while
general inflation for economy in 1977/78 was less than 6%, price of shingle
increased by 16%; sand, by 16%; and wood, by 20%.



- 101 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for
Engineering Consultants
General
1.        In order to ensure effective implementation of the project by AFPTC
and CC, two engineering consultants in the fields of structural and mechan-
ical engineering respectively would be recruited internationally from a
well-established engineering firm. The appointments would be extended over
a two-year period covering 15 man-months each of structural and mechanical
engineering. The consultants would be assisting in finalizing design of
storage and mechanical handling systems, precleaning, aeration, power
supply and electrical installations, preparation of tender specifications
and contract documents, tender evaluation and construction supervision.
Qualifications of the Firm
2.        The firm should have available adequate personnel with required
qualifications (para 3), and previous experience in construction supervision
in developing countries. The firm should also have previous experience in
the design of grain storage facilities of the flat bulk warehouse type.
Qualifications of the Engineers
3.        Both engineers should have:
(a) training in their respective fields of engineering with
degrees from a reputable institute or university;
(b) a minimum of three years experience in organizing, managing
and supervising construction projects, preferably in devel-
oping countries;
(c) adequate experience with practical aspects of construction
methods used in developing countries; and
(d) adequate experience in contract administration.
4.        In addition to the qualifications listed under 3 above the
Structural Engineer should have:
(a) no less than five years experience in all aspects of design
and construction of flat bulk warehouses including those
pertaining to prefabricated steel structures; and
(b) no less than 10 years experience in all aspects of struc-
tural engineering.



- 102 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        In addition to the qualifications listed under 3 the Mechanical
Engineer should have:
(a) no less than five years experience in all aspects of design,
installation and operation of mechanical equipment for handling,
cleaning and aeration of stored grain; and
(b) no less than 10 years experience in all aspects of mechanical
engineering.
Job Description
6.        The Structural Engineer consultant should assist AFPTC in the
following areas:
(a) Preparation in coordination with CC and the Mechanical
Engineer consultant of the designs and specifications for
the superstructures of the prefabricated steel godowns to
a level of detail sufficient for the supplier to finalize
designs and specifications;
(b) Preparation of tender documents for the detailed design and
supply of prefabricated steel structures;
(c) Evaluation of bids for supply of prebabricated steel struc-
tures, recommendations for contract award and drafting
conditions of contract; and
(d) Supervision of the erection of the first set of prefabricated
steel godowns.
7.        The Mechanical Engineer consultant should assist in the following
areas:
(a) Preparation of designs and specifications for the mechanical
grain handling equipment, including precleaning equipment
aeration, elevators, power supply and electric installation
to a level of detail sufficient (a) for CC to finalize
the designs and specifications for sub- and superstructures;
and (b) for the suppliers to finalize designs and specifications
for above equipment;
(b) Preparation of tender documents for supply of above
equipment;
(c) Evaluation of bids for supply of above equipment, recommenda-
tions for contract award and drafting of conditions of
contract; and
(d) Supervision of erection, test runs and commissioning of
above equipment for first set of timber and prefabricated
steel godowns respectively.



- 103 -
ANNEX 9
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Locations for Project Storage
Depots of 5,000 T Capacity
IRRAWADDY DIVISION
Township                                         Village
(1)  Bassein East                                 (Shan Ywa)
(2)  Bassein East                                 (Kangyidaunt)
(3)  Bassein West                                 (Thinbawgyin)
(4)  Ngaputaw                                     (Kattayawa)
(5)  Labutta                                      (Ahmat)
(6)  Labutta                                      (Aleyegyaw)
(7)  Einme                                        (Einme)
(8)  Danubyu                                      (Yetwingone)
(9)  Dedaye                                       (Naukpyandoe)
(10)  Dedaye                                       (Thonegone)
(11)  Maubin                                       (Talokekone)
PEGU DIVISION
Township                                          Village
(1)  Kyauktaga                                    (Thahtaygone)
(2)  Kyauktaga                                    (Mukhayan)
(3)  Kawa                                         (Ohnne)
(4)  Gyobingauk                                   (Magyigone)
RANGOON DIVISION
Township                                         Village
(1)  Dala                                         (Khanaungtoe)
(2)  Syriam                                       (Hawtegone)
(3)  Kawmhu                                       (Thakhut)
(4)  Kungyangone                                  (Kungyangone)
(5)  Hlegu                                        (Kyungale)



- 104 -
ANNEX 10
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.      Reports and Studies Relating to the Project.
Al.     Draft Report for Project Preparation on Paddy/Rice Storage,
Handling and Milling in Lower Burma, October 1978, Sanyu
Consultants Inc., Nagoya, Japan.
A2.     Draft Feasibility Study and Project Preparation for the Second
Burma Rice Processing Project, December 1978, Resources
Development Consultants Ltd., Sri Lanka.
B.      Selected Working Papers
Bl.     Consultant's Report:  Procurement, Grading, Pest Control and
Exports.
B2.     Consultant't Report:  Storage and Drying.
B3.     Consultant's Report:  Transportation.
B4.     Computer Program for projection of paddy production, procurement,
storage, transportation and milling.
B5.     Projections of paddy production, procurement, storage, transporta-
tion and milling for townships in Lower Burma between 1980-83.
B6.     Selected Working Tables.



IBRD 14131 Rl
--   \   950 \$ j   \       wo   i  t           >       NOVEMBER 1980
V   )             ~~M  A'tG  W   E                                   |
Th                                                         Y .dC/ r JeXX 
-19 \          \            20( g                /    TOUNGOO                             1#
P,o
Ky.kiky,'
' Ag  A K A    N)                 PrKvsowo  rng  P  Eonr \> 0   U
B4YOfd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Kywkag 
HEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
',.)BEGA  BASE! * **oy Rit        iN    OOND                     Dt//
..U',.'-                                                                       IJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ltp.
//  1(\' VrPOOE   TRG   OAIN
N           /  L                        PYAPONtdttO/A            PRPSE  OC   iC   IL
GRAEIN  STORAGEPROJECT
B'            1Wlnondt.o hdy0r         IROE  STORAGELOWATYOS
&A OF BEGA                    Kyo      D-           N t t     N
IN CI    I               A                                      Ut   PROPOSED A9RICE MLS
R   AW       ,0                                 A RSE OCF  rDWS DMLS
Q   ] ffi   4                                     -*-INTERMTIONAL 90tWMADBANRH.  H
z.v.4~~~~~~~~d0O,I4 *1o Iee -15                                                       I
-f
To170p   I15I//                      m17
-\w/S.   1 .    vTHAIND                   H             ktMLES
N.J9                  t                                      GULF OFYMARTA-BANETERS  98_
__________________    L  980~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



