CREDIT NUMBER 1092 BA
Development Credit Agreement
(Grain Storage Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      FC66rddw                   1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1092 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     red, 1981, between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AFPTC" means the Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade
Corporation, a state-owned corporation established within the
Borrower's Ministry of Trade, or any successor thereto;
(b) "CC" means the Construction Corporation, a state-
owned corporation, established within the Borrower's Ministry
of Construction, or any successor thereto;
(c) "BRC" means the Burma Railways Corporation, a state-
owned corporation, established within the Borrower's Ministry
of Transport and Communications, or any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AFPTC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time and such term shall include all schedules to
such agreement;
(e) "Kyats" and "K" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(f) "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's fiscal year
beginning April 1 and ending March 31; and
(g) "Project Area" means the area comprising the three
divisions of Irrawady, Rangoon and Pegu, located in the Lower
Burma Region.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 17,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1991, and ending December 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of AFPTC, or any person
duly authorized in writing by him, is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provision of Section 2.02 of this
agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in respect of
the amount relent to AFPTC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry c,ut, or cause
to be carried out, the Project with due A4ligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engi-
neering and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to AFPTC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AFPTC upon terms and conditions accept-
able to the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, such Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia,
that (i) AFPTC shall pay periodically to the Borrower amounts
representing interest on the amount relent at an annual rate of 9%


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, and (ii) amortization of the principal amount relent
will be over a term of twenty years, including a three and one-
half year grace period from the date of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b). The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause to be prepared and
furnished to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and upon request shall
furnish to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. In the event that the agreed locations for
the stores to be constructed (under Part A of the Project) were to
be changed during the Project implementation, the Borrower shall
cause AFPTC to furnish to the Association such changes for its
comments prior to the commencement of construction.
Section 3.06. For purpose of ensuring effective coordination
in the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall esta-
blish and maintain a Project Coordination Committee, chaired by
the Deputy Minister of Trade.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that (a) by May 1,
1981, an adequately staffed and equipped pest control squad will
be stationed in each of the 14 consolidated townships in which
facilities are located or to be located under Part A of the
Project; and (b) by June 1, 1982, an additional such pest control
squad will be stationed in each such consolidated township.


﻿-6-
Section 3.08. (a) Not later than May 1, 1981, in respect of
Fiscal Year 1981/82 and, thereafter, not later than April 1 of
each subsequent Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall cause AFPTC to
furnish to the Association, for its review, an annual plan for
overseas training, indicating selected candidates and training
facilities.
(b) Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that AFPTC's personnel trained overseas under the Project
shall, upon completion of such training, work exclusively on (i)
implementation of the Project; and (ii) provide in-service
training to other field staff of AFPTC.
Sectioi 3.09. The Borrower shall cause AFPTC to: (i) review
its current paddy grading criteria and make recommendations so as
to ensure that farmers have adequate financial incentives to
deliver paddy of better storability and quality; and (ii) furnish
to the Association, by January 31, 1982, such review and recommen-
dations for its review and comments.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause AFPTC to establish
and maintain an adequately staffed Project Implementation Unit
within its Project Department and headed by a Project Director,
with suitable qualifications acceptable to the Association,
responsible for implementation of the new storage construction,
rehabilitation and pilot drying programs includIng procurement
matters, training programs, monitoring and reporting.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause AFPTC to: (i) estab-
lish and maintain a Storage Maintenance Unit within its Project
Department; (ii) establish and maintain a Quality Control
Unit within its Procurement and Sales Department; and (iii)
adequately staff the respective Units which are to be headed by
personnel whose experience is satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause CC to assign the
responsibilities for coordinating all aspects of the civil works
under Parts A and G of the Project within CC and between AFPTC and
CC, during the Project Implementation, to a Project Coordinator
with qualifications acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.13. For the purpose of establishing a regular
railway service for the transportation of rice between Rangoon and
Thazi/Mandalay:


﻿- 7 -
(a) the Borrower shall cause AFPTC, not later than July 1,
1981, to enter into an agreement with BRC, upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, providing for regularly
scheduled unit trains for rice transportation;
(b) not later than six weeks prior to the the proposed date
of signing of the said agreement, the Borrower shall cause
AFPTC to furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a
draft of such agreement; and
(c) the Borrower shall take all such measures as may be
required to ensure the timely implementation of the said agreement
and execution of AFPTC's and BRC's respective obligations there-
under.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall: (i) cause AFPTC to enter
into contractual agreements with CC, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to construct the stores under
Parts A and G of the Project; (ii) not later than six weeks prior
to the proposed date of signing of such contracts, cause AFPTC to
furnish the Association, for its review and comment, drafts of
such contracts; (iii) cause AFPTC to furnish the Association with
copies of said signed contracts; and (iv) take all such measures
as may be required to ensure the timely implementation of said
contracts.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall, by May 1, 1981, cause AFPTC
to increase the responsibilities of its Transport Department to
include: (i) the operation of rice transshipment stores; (ii) the
movement, coordination and planning of water and land transporta-
tion of rice, including the supervision of contracts for the
operation of the rice unit train; (iii) the fumigation of ship and
transit storages; and (iv) the coordination and implementation
of the pest control program.
Section 3.16. In order to assist AFPTC in carrying out
Part J of the Project, the Borrower shall, by July 1, 1981,
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause AFPTC to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently


﻿-8-
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of AFPTC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause AFPTC to maintain separate
accounts in respect to the Project and to: (i) have such accounts
together with AFPTC's financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Director General of the
Central Accounts Office; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such Year, copies of AFPTC's unaudited accounts and,
not later than nine months after each such Year, (A) certified
copies of AFPTC's financial statements for such Year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said Director General, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of AFPTC
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause AFPTC to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comment, not later than August 31 of each
Fiscal Year, a draft budget and implementation plan in respect of
the Project for the next succeeding Fiscal Year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) AFPTC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AFPTC or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and AFPTC; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Project Coordination Committee referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement has been established;
(b) (i) the Project Implementation Unit referred to in
Section 3.10 of this Agreement has been established, and (ii) the
Project Director referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement has
been appointed;
(c) the requirements of Section 3.12 of this Agreement have
been fulfilled; and
(d) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and AFPTC, respectively, has
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental or
corporate action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and AFPTC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and AFPTC,
respectively, in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date                    /    , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister or the Deputy Minister of Planning
and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Planning and Finance
Office of the Ministers
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America                                               r
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By          AKaw-    Aj-'X414
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By S/
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Directly imported            8,210,000       100% of foreign
equipment and mate-                         expenditures
rials, including
prefabricated
storage shell
(2) Civil works                  9,160,000        55% of local
and locally                                  expenditures
procured items
(3) Technical assistance,          530,000        100%
training, monitoring
and evaluation
TOTAL        17,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the


﻿- 13 -
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to increase the Borrower's capacity for
the storage of paddy and to improve its system for transpor-
tation of rice. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of new paddy stores, made from timber and
prefabricated steel structures, including the provision of storage
facilities of 100,000 tons capacity, at about 20 sites in the
Project Area.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of about 500 permanent stores, owned by AFPTC,
and of about 120 small wooden jetties.
Part C:
Improvement of grading efficiency and store management
through provision of new equipment.
Part D:
Implementation of a program of pest control through provision
of equipment and supplies.
Part E:
Implementation of a pilot project to improve the drying
capabilities of procurement centers in three townships.
Part F:
Rehabilitation of 60 double bogie rice wagons with vacuum
brakes and bearings for increasing wagon utilization and reli-
ability of rice transportation.
Part G:
Construction of a transshipment store for rice at Thazi with
a capacity of about 3,000 tons.


﻿- 15 -
Part H:
Strengthening the Borrower's capabilities in handling and
storing paddy by providing, inter alia, about 70 man-months of
overseas training and about 305 man-months of local training to
AFPTC's personnel.
Part I:
Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation capabil ties
of AFPTC.
Part J:
The preparation of detailed storage designs and assistance in
the supervision of Part A of the Project through 30 man-months of
technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma may be granted


﻿- 17 -
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering gocds manufactured in
the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfac-
tion of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Socialist Republic of the Union of
Burma equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
Group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
Group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 18 -
the Group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for the construction of new stores under
Parts A and G of the Project shall be carried out on the basis of
negotiated contracts between AFPTC and CC on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Small items costing the equivalent of $10,000 or less
each and not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 in the aggregate
may be procured off-the-shelf.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
Borrower's recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 19 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Part B of the Project shall be carried out
by force account by AFPTC.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   6        day of
198F E.
FOR SECRETARY


