RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                      Report No. P-469
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A.
FOR THE
JAGUARA POWER PROJECT
February 25, 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED LOAN TO
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DE MINAS GERAIS, S A.
FOR THE JAGUARA POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$ 49 million to
Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A. (CEMIG), to finance part of
the cost of the Jaguara hydroelectric project in Brazil.
PART I. Introduction
l/
2.       In 1953 the Bank made a loan to CEMG and CEARG- of $7.3 million
to assist in financing the 48 MW Itutinga hydroelectric project, com-
missioned in 1959/60. Since then CEMIG has greatly expanded its facili-
ties and service and now has 17 plants with a capacity of about 528 MW,
together with transmission and distribution facilities throughout the
State of Minas Gerais.
3.       The Jaguara development was thoroughly studied by CEMIG and its
consultants and was also recommended as of highest priority in an inte-
grated program of power expansion for the South-Central region of Brazil
prepared by CANAMBRA, a consortium of engineering consultants working
under a United Nations Special Fund grant for which the Bank acts as
Executing Agency. In July 1965, CEMIG and the government requested the
Bank to lend $49 million for the Jaguara plant. This plant and the
remainder of CEMIG's expansion program, were appraised by a Bank mission
which visited Brazil in October 1965.
4.       Formal negotiations for the proposed loan began on January 18
and were concluded on February 2, 1966. The government was represented
by Mr. Castro Vianna, Brazilian Treasury Delegate in New York; CEMIG
was represented by its President, Mr. Celso Mello de Azevedo, by its
Vice President, Mr. Mario Penna Bhering, and by its Legal adviser,
Mr. Walter Alvares; the State of Minas Gerais was represented by Messrs.
Azevedo and Bhering of CEMIG.
1/ CEARG - Companhia Eletrica de Alto Rio Grande - was absorbed by
CEMIG on April 30, 1963.



- 2 -
5.       The proposed loan wvould increase Bank lending to Brazil from
$346.5 million to $395.5 million, net of cancellations. The position
at January 31, 1966 was as follows:
Millions of $
Amount (net of
Year    Borrower    Purpose                  Cancellations)   Undisbursed
1958    Furnas      Furnas power                                     1/
development                  73.0            0.2-
1965    Furnas      Estreito I power
development                  57.0           56,8
1965    Uselpa      Xavantes power                                   2/
development                  22.5           22.5-
Sub-total, loans not fully disbursed            152.5            79.5
Fully disbursed loans                            19h.0
Total (net of cancellations)                    346.5
Of which has been repaid                      96.6
Total outstanding                               249.9
Amount sold                           6.9
Of which has been repaid           5.4         1.5
Total held by Bank                              248.4
6.       The Bank also has under consideration two additional projects:
a loan for the transmission phase of Furnas' Estreito project, and loans
for expansion of distribution facilities of certain Eletrobras companies;
these loans are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors with-
in the next few months.
1/ This loan was fully disbursed in February 1966.
2/ This loan is not yet effective. The delay in effectiveness has beer.
due to the need for special enabling legislation by the State of Sao
Paulo, registration with Federal and State Tribunals of Accounts and
other time-consuming formalities. The Company recently advised us
that all formalities have now been completed, and we are awaiting
the documents necessary to declare the loan effective.



- 3 -
PART II. Description of the Proposed Loan
7.       The main characteristics of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:             Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A. (CEMIG)
Guarantor:            United States of Brazil
Amount:               The equivalent, in various currencies, of
$49 million
Purpose:              Assist in financing Jaguara hydroelectric
project (400 MW)
Term & Amortization:  25 years (including 5½ years grace); semi-annual
repayments from October 1, 1971 through April 1,
1991.
Interest Rate:        6% per annum
Commitment Charge:    3/8 of 1% per annum
PART III. The Project
8.       An appraisal report on the Jaguara Power Project (TO-514a) is
attached.
9.       The State of Minas Gerais, with a population of over 10 million,
is larger in land area than France. The more densely populated southern
half of the State is very rich in iron ore and other minerals and con-
tains many new relatively heavy industries, such as steel and aluminum.
The capital city, Belo Horizonte, with a population of nearly one million,
is a rapidly growing center of industry and commerce.  About 80% of CEMIG's
output is absorbed by industry. The demand for electric power in CEMIG's
market area has grown at an annual rate of 20% in the past five years,
except for 1964 when the rate of growth dropped to 12% due to unsettled
business conditions. As the CEMIG system is interconnected with the
systems serving the Central South region, demand for power is based on
the growth rate of the region, estimated by CAMA.MBRA at 10-11% per annum.
CANAMBRA studies also show that the output of the Jaguara plant will be
quickly absorbed after the plant is placed in operation in 1971.
10.      The CEMIG group comprises CEM4IG and its subsidiary, Eletrificacao
Rural de Minas Gerais (ERMIG). CEMIG is a power utility owned principally
by the State of Minas Gerais (66%), Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. -
Eletrobras (16%) and by some 35,000 shareholders, including municipali-
ties, industrial consumers, insurance companies, banks and individuals.
ERMIG, which is effectively controlled by CEMIG, is responsible for rural
electrification. CEMIG is responsible for the State's power expansion
program and serves or will eventually serve all the principal towns and
industries in the State. CEMIG's Board and management are able and



experienced and should be able to carry out and operate the Project
efficiently.
11.      The Jaguara hydroelectric plant and associated transmission
facilities constitute Part I of the Project, which includes as Part II
the other expansion requirements of the CEMIG system through 1971. The
Borrower would be obligated to carry out the entire expansion program,
but the Bank loan would be used only to finance the Jaguara plant and
related facilities. Jaguara, expected to be completed by early 1971,
together with other installations, would increase CEMIG's generating
capacity to about 1,000 MW by that time.
12.      The Jaguara plant, with an initial installation of 400 MW, till
be situated on the Rio Grande River, downstream from the existing Furnas
and Peixoto plants and the proposed Estreito plant now under construction
(for which the Bank made a loan of $57 million in 1965). The Jaguara
plant will benefit greatly from the large flow regulating reservoir at
Furnas. The plant will be connected to Belo Horizonte and to Estreito
to form an interconnection with Furnas' system serving the major load
centers of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
13.      The estimated cost of Jaguara (including interest during con-
struction on the Bank loan) is US$ 90 million equivalent, including
contingency allowances of 17% on civil works and 10% on other items.
These should be adequate as Jaguara promises to have a minimum of
engineering difficulties. The cost per kilowatt installed is US$ 165
(excluding transmission) which is very favorable for a hydroelectric
plant with an energy capability such as Jaguarals.
1b.      In addition to the Jaguara plant and associated transmission
facilities, CENIG will also carry out a major expansion program
(described as Part II of the Project) including new generating capac-
ity and transmission and distribution facilities to serve about 275,000
new customers and about 200 new towns and rural areas.
15.      The entire expansion program from 1966 to 1971 (including Jaguara)
is estimated to cost the equivalent of about $231 million, including
additions to working capital. This program will be financed from the
following sources:
Net internal cash generation               25%
Federal grants                              6
State, private equity contributions        25
Eletrobras equity contributioni             5
Proposed IBRD Loa,n                        21
Eletrobras loan_                            4
Other borrowings                           14
100%
1/ The Eletrobras loan and Bletrobras undertaking to provide equity have
been made conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.



Satisfactory commitments or assurances have been or will be received that
all necessary funds will be provided. In addition, the State of Minas
Gerais is authorized by existing legislation to provide additional funds
that might be needed in the event of an overrun in costs. These arrange-
ments are satisfactory.
16.      As permitted by existing electric tariff legislation, CEMIG and
the government have agreed to establish tariffs adequate to provide the
Company with a minimum annual return of 10% on its revalued net fixed
assets after covering all operating costs, including depreciation.
While this should produce a satisfactory level of rates, the Bank is now
discussing with the government possible improvements in the tariff legisla-
tion. CEMAIG's net operating income after taxes would provide ample debt
service coverage. CEI1IG's debt/equity ratio is also very favorable, and
there is still adequate scope for further borrowing.
17.      In accordance with the pattern established by agreement between
the Bank and Brazil in the 1965 loans to Central Eletrica de Furnas (Furnas)
and Usinas Eletricas de Paranapanema (Uselpa), the proposed loan is intended
to cover the procurement of goods on the basis of international competitive
bidding, with Brazilian suppliers participating with a preference of 15% in
respect of equipment and materials. The proposed loan would also cover
payments for civil works awarded under international competition with
Brazilian contractors participating without preference. Withdrawals in
respect of civil works will be at a uniform percentage, which has presently
been esLablished at 20%.
PART IV. Legal Instruments and Authority
18.      The following draft documents to which the Bank is a party, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately: (a) Loan Agreement with Centrais Eletricas de
Minas Gerais, S.A.; (b) Guarantee Agreement wfith the United States of
Brazil; and (c) Project Agreement with the State of Minas Gerais.
19.      These agreements are substantially similar to those of the recent
FURNAS and USELPA loans. The following provisions are of special interest:
(a) Sections 5.14 and 3.07 of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
respectively, establish the minimum level at which power
tariffs wvill be set, to produce, inter alia, a return of
10% on net revalued fixed assets.
(b) Section 2.01 of the Guarantee Agreement contains the usual
"financial guarantee" of the Guarantor, but does not (in
accordance with a recent change in Brazilian policy) extend
the guarantee to fulfillment of the Borrower's other obliga-
tions because CE1IG is a state-owned company.



- 6 -
(c)  The Project Agreement, which would be executed under
existing State legislation, does provide reasonable
assurances of adequate funds from the State of Minas
Gerais to complete the project, and further provides:
(i) that the State will take all reasonable action
necessary to enable the Borrower to carry out the
Expansion Program; (ii) that it will not take or permit
any of its agencies to take, any action which would
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement; and (iii), that it
will accord the Project the highest priority.
(d) Under Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement,
the Guarantor undertakes to carry out and implement
studies to: (i) reduce restrictions on procurement by
contractors working on similar power projects; and (ii)
achieve consistent rate policies which will ensure an
adequate return to power utilities on their real invest-
ment.
20.      The Guarantor is authorized by existing legislation to give its
guarantee to the proposed loan.
PART V. The Economy
21.      The last Economic Report (WH-146a) was prepared by the IBRD
Economic Mission which visited Brazil in the Fall of 1964. The report
was distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1965. Another Economic
Mission visited Brazil in November-December 1965 and is preparing a report.
This report is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors in April
1966.
22.      Nearly all the indicators of economic performance registered sub-
stantial improvements in 1965 as compared with 1964. The rise in the cost
of living slowed down by nearly one half (from 87% in 1964 to an estimated
45%); GNP rose by an estimated 5%; the Central Government budget deficit
declined by one half in real terms; non-coffee exports rose by over 35%
to an all-time high, and this increase in exports together with a drop in
imports and substantial capital inflows (including debt rescheduling)
raised foreign exchange reserves to about $500 million which is the highest
level in some years. The major area of slippage in the government's 1965
economic program was the rate of monetary expansion which substantially
exceeded the programmed level. This was due primarily to a much smaller
than expected contractionary effect from coffee financing and a very high
rate of commercial bank credit expansion which arose mainly from purchases
of foreign exchange by the monetary authorities. The 1966 monetary program
does not rely on a large contractionary effect from coffee financing and
is designed to prevent a repetition of the excessive expansion of commercial
bank credit.



- 7 -
23.      The government is continuing its anti-inflationary monetary,
fiscal, and wage policies to produce a further slowdown in rate of
inflation during 1966 and to achieve approximate price stability by
the end of the year. The government plans to continue correcting the
price distortions which have contributed to the large public deficits
and balance of payments crises and have produced bottlenecks in public
sectors. The 1966 program contemplates the continuation of policies
designed to strengthen Brazil's balance of payments: a flexible
exchange rate; the relaxation and elimination of export controls; and
sound external debt management.
24.      The government's anti-inflationary program and the slowdown in
the rate of inflation have produced a substantial change in inflationary
expectations. Consumers have become more price conscious and producers
more cost conscious. This has led to the elimination of a sizeable
number of marginal firms and to increasing efforts to reduce costs.
The public authorities have been contributing towards inproving economic
efficiency by undertaking measures and studies to improve the productiv-
ity of public investment in the fields of electric power, transport,
steel, and telecommunications. They are also increasingly using the
price mechanism to allocate credit to the private sector in agriculture
and industry. Most recently, the government has begun a study of import
policies with a view to liberalizing them to facilitate the use of
external financial assistance and also to improve the efficiency of
Brazilian industry by subjecting it to more external competition.
25.      Rising economic activity and a recovery of private investment,
both domestic and foreign, together with higher disbursements on project
loans that are tied to imports, are expected to produce a substantial
increase in imports in 1966. Brazilian exports, together with projected
capital inflows, are expected to enable Brazil to meet all its scheduled
external obligations without debt rescheduling or the accumulation of
arrears for the first time in some years. While Brazil's obligations
on its existing external debt will continue to be heavy during the next
few years, they should be manageable if Brazil's new borrowing is pro-
vided on suitable terms.
PART VI. Compliance with Articles of Agreement
26.      I am satisfied that the proposed lean would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII. Recommendation
27.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 8 -
Resolution No.
"Approval of Loan to Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais, S.A.
in the amount of the equivalent of U.S.$49,ooo,ooo to be
guaranteed by the United States of Brazil:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais, S.A., to be guaranteed by The United States of Brazil, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-nine million United
States dollars (U.S.$h9,ooo,000), to mature on and prior to April 1, 1991,
to bear interest at the rate of six per cent (6%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agree-
ment (Jaguara Power Project) between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas de
Minas Gerais, S.A. and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Jaguara Power
Project) between The United States of Brazil and the Bank and the form
of Project Agreement (Jaguara Power Project) between The State of Minas
Gerais and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting."
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
February 25, 1966



