Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8580
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS
(CREDIT 939-NEP)
APRIL 30, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BDank authoiztDk



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AA          -    Agricultural Assistant(s)
ADBN        -    Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC         -    Agricultural Inputs Corporation
APROSC      -    Agricultural Projects Service Centre of Nepal
CCC         -     Central Coordinating Committee
CDO         -     Chief District Officer
DADO        -     District Agricultural Development Officer
DAP         -     District Administration Plan
DCVI        -     Department of Cottage and Village Industries
DDC         -     Dairy Development Corporation
DIHM        -     Department of Irrigation Hydrology and Meterology. MFAI
DOA         -    Department of Agriculture
DTO         -     District Technical Office
DTSU        -     District Technical Support Unit
HMG         -     His Majesty's Government
IRDP        -     Integrated Rural Development Project
Jr. AHW     -     Junior Assistant Health Worker(s)
JT          -     Junior Technician(s)
JTA         -     Junior Technical Assistant(s)
LDD         -     Local Development Department
MEU         -    Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFAI        -    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
MOE         -    Ministry of Education
MOH         -    Ministry of Health
MPLD        -    Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
PC          -     Project Coordinator
PDO         -     Panchayat Development Officer
RD I        -     Rural Development I Project
RD II       -     Rural Development II Project
SOE         -     Statement of Expediture
VAA         -    Village Agricultural Assistant(s)
ZCC         -     Zonal Coordinating Committee
MEASURES
1 Rupani equals one-twentieth of a hectare
Nepalese Fiscal Year
July 15 - July 14
Name of Currency: Nepalese Rupee (NR)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 20433
U.S.A.
Oface CA DstwcIEw4M
Op.atms Evahauian
April 30, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJE.CT: Project Completion Report on NEPAL
Second Rural Development Project Mahakali Hills
(Credit 939-NEP)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nepal - Second Rural Development Project Mahakali
Hills" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HIL'S
(CREDIT 939-NEP)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..................................................................i
BASIC DATA SHEET ..........................................................ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................ iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ........................................................... 1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                  2
A. Project Origin..                                                  2
B.  Project Preparation and Appraisal       ..                       2
C. Project Description                       ..                      2
III.  IMPLEMENTATION .      .................................................... 3
A. Negotiations and Effectiveness                  .        .         3
B.   Overall Implementation Experience                .       .       3
C.   Implementation of Individual Components            .     .       4
- Agricultural Development               . ..      ... ..  4
- Establishment of Service Centers and Strengthening of
Agricultural Extension Service            ......     . .   4
- Livestock Development .......     .....               ... 9
- Irrigation Development ............. 10
- Soil Conservation/Erosion Control        ....     ...... . 12
- Health Services                      ..    12
- Education                       ......  12
- Village Water Supplies    .      ......................... .. . 13
- Building Construction                 .....  13
- Development of Trails and Bridges               . .    13
- Postal Services     ....... .................................    14
- Cottage Industry .... .................................... 15
- Technical Assistance ....    ................................... 15
D.   Project Costs ....      ...... ... .............................. 17
E.   Financing and Disbursement ................................... 17
F.   Procurement           . ..      ...... ..................... 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ................. ..... ................ .   18
- Implementing Agencies and Coordination ...................... l8
- Monitoring and Evaluation ................. ........ . ....... . 18
_ Reporting and Accounting ......................... . ..... .21
_ Compliance with Covenants ............................ . .. . *.21
V. PROJECT IDGACT .....................................            22
A. Intended Impact ...........            ... ..................... 22
B. Actual Impact ............................................ 22
- Production Impact ........ .............................. 22
- Horticulture Production ...... . ...................... .22
- Social Impact  . ..................     .................. 25
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ..              ..................................  .... 26
VII. IDA PERFORMANCE ....  ...                   ................................. 27
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED     ................................... 27
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ................................. 27
- Lessons Learned ................................................. 29
LOCATION MAP
TABLES
1.  Implementation Schedule of Physical Components.
2.   S-wary of Physical Achievements.
3.  Physical Achievements of the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC).
4.  Horticulture: Saplings Distributed by Year.
5.  Comparison Between Appraisal Cost Estimates and Actual Costs.
6.  Project Expenditures.
7.  Proceeds of Credit.
8.  Performance of Agricultural and Livestock Training Programme.
9.  Livestock Treatment and Distribution of Improved Stock by Year.
10. Livestock Treatment and Distribution of Improved Stock by Year.
11.  Statu3 of Compliance with Legal Covenants.
12.  Cropping Pattern, Cropped Area.
13.  Crop Yields.
14.  Crop Production.
15.  Crop Inputs Per Hectare.
16.  Farm-Gate Price of Inputs and Outputs.
17.  Food Balance in the Project Areas.
ANNEX 1   -  Economic Re-Evaluation.
MAP: IBRD 14190



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI RILLS
(CREDIT 939-NEP)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Second Rural Development Project (Mahakali Hills Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Project) in Nepal for which Credit 939-NEP in the amount of US$11
million was approved on June 25, 1979. The Credit was closed on July 15,
1988, nearly three and a half years behind schedule, and the undisbursed
balance of about US$4.63 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program on
the basis of a review of the Staff Appraisal Report. the Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, project files, progress reports prepared by project
management and discussions with officials of His Majesty's Governament.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on February 8, 1990, for comments by
March 20, 1990, but none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIAXALI HILLS
(CREDIT 939-NEP)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                Actual 2 of
Estimates    Actual Appraisal Estimates
Project Cost (USS million)             13.45       9.32            69
Credit Amount (US$ million)            11.00       6.37            58
Date Physcial Components completed Dec. 1984   July 1988
Econoxic Rate of Return
- "hole Project                     21S         n.a (b)
- Agric. Development Component (a) 50S          462
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
IDA Fiscal Year             FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86   FY87  FY88  FY89
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million)             0.02  0.56  2.24  4.54  7.24  9.69  11.00
Actual (US$ million)         -    0.04  0.11  0.57  1.52  2.8'   4.22  4.54  5.32  6.37
Actual as Z of Est.          -        7     5    13    21    29      38    41    48    58
Date of Final Disbursement                            January 27, 1989
PROJECT DATES
Orizinal                  Actual
Negotiations                                                      05113/79
Board Approval                                                    06/25/79
Credit Signing                                                    09/0979
Credit Effectiveness                     11/07/79                 01115/80
Credit Closing                           02/28/85                 07115188
STAFF INPUT (Staff weeks)
Pre
Task        FY77 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 PY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89   TOTAL
Preappraisal  3.2        42.2  6.5                                                        51.8
Appraisal                     57.1                                                        57.1
Negotiations                   3.7                                                         3.7
Loan Proc.    .5   1.2    .5  4.0                                                          6.3
Sector Work                                                          .6                     .6
Supervision                         3.1 3.1  7.1  9.7  3.8  33.5  7.7 4.3  1.9   .4    74.5
PCR                                                  .7                  .2        2.8     3.7
Proj. Admi.                      .1   .3  .0   .1   .1               .4  .4                1.5
Total      3.6  1.2   42.7 71.4  3.4 3.1  7.2 10.5  3.8  33.5  8.7 5.0  1.9  3.2   199.2
(a) Representing 102 of project costs.
(b) But considered to be lower than SAR estimate.



- iii -
OTHER DATA
Name of Currency t Nepalese Rupee (NMs)
Exchange Rates   I
Appraisal Year Average (FY78/79)              s 12.00
Intervening Years Average (FY80181 - 87/88  s 17.29
Completion Year Average (FY87/88              s 22.10
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   Man Days  Specifi-    Perf.              Type of
Mo/Yr. Persons iA Field cation 1/ Status 2/ Trend 31 Problems 4/
Preparation        7?/78 (prepared by APROSC with FAO/CP assistance under RDI)
Appraisal         11/12/78    5           -         _          _         _
Supervision I        02/80    3          48    E, A, S 1/    2 2/        -        H 41
Supervision II    11/12/80    1           4       E         ......... not given ....... .
Supervision III      03/81    1 (no field visit) A            2         2 3/      F, M
Supervision IV       04/82    1           5       E           2          3        F. M
Supervision V        07/82    1          22       E           2          3        F, M
Supervision VT       02/83    1          15   not given       2          1         F
Supervision VII      03/84    1          14       E           3         2         F, M
Supervision VIII     02/85  ........ no report ......         3             n.a
Supervision IX       04/86    1           8        E          3             n.a
Supervision X        10/86    1          10       E           3             n.a
Supervision XI        9/87    3          24    E, A, C        2             n.a
Supervision XII       2/88    2          16      A, C         1             n.a
PCR         xIII    3-4/89    3           -    E, A, C       n.a            n.a
Follow-Up Projects   Rural Development III (Cr. 1727-NEP'
1/ A - Agriculturist; E - Economist; C - Civil Engineer; S - Sociologist.
_/ 1 - problem free/minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
3/ 1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 = deteriorating.
4/ F - finanzial; M = managerial.
5/ New format No. 590 introduced does not include these data.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAXALI HILLS
(CREDIT 939-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       This is the second IDA-assisted rural devplopment project in
Nepal, commencing only three and one half years after the start of the
Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project (RD I). In line with the
Government's policy of balanced regional development, the project was
located in one of the most remote parts of Nepal (the far Western Region)
which had not seen any significant development activity.
Obiectives
2.       Unrealistically high expectations of the project, as contained in
the preparation report, were scaled down substantially by the appraisal
mission. The project, to be implemented over a five-year period, was to
assist development of the threA hill districts of the Mahakali Development
Region. The project's main focus was to raise agricultural production
through improvement of crop and livestock support services, and small and
medium-scale irrigation schemes. In addition, the area's economic and
social infrastructure was to be developed through the construction of
facilities for education, health care, transportation, water supply,
community and government administration services.
Implementation Experience
3.       Project implementation proved to be much more difficult than
expectel because of the administrative, finarcia' and managerial problems
related to the remote location of the project area. Project start up was
much slower than normal, implementation of physical targets remained far
below appraisal estimates with the exception of agricultural investments.
The main problems encountered were the excessive delays in the release of
budget funds, staffing constraints due to high turn over and shortage of
qualified individuals, and insufficient quality control. During most of
the implementation period, delays in construction activities jeopardized
the success of the project's objectives, but in the last two years,
following an extension of the Credit closing date, substantial progress was
made.
Results
4.       On balance, the project achieved its main objective of increasing
agricultural production as well as that of improving the level of social



- v -
welfare of the rural population, although these remain well below appraisal
estimates. Substantial production increases are reported in a range of crops
as well as in livestock. Social welfare improved significantly as a result of
improved communications, water supply, health and education facilities in the
rural hill areas.
Sustainability
5.    The outlook for sustainability of project activities is good as many
programs have already been supported under HHG's regular budget during the
last three years. The only major problem appears to be with building
maintenance, especially in the outlying areas.
Findings
6.          The main lessons that can be derived from the project's experience
are:
(a)   because they require more time for implementation, rural
development projects in remote (hill) areas should be
designed either for a longer than standard implementation
period, or for two phases with the first phase focusing on
infrastructure development and training and the second phase
on production-oriented services;
(b)   the temptation should be resisted to include too many
components dispersed over a wide range of sectors, and
project resources should be concentrated in relatively few
specific priority areas;
(c)   service centers, bringing togecher in a single location the
providers of all important farmer support services, can be
very successful provided that they are strategically sited
and provide adequate living and working conditions;
(d)   the per hectare cost of irrigation schemes carried out under
the responsibility of the Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology has been excessive and far above
that of minor hill terrace irrigation schemes, which
suggests the need for more rigorous scrutiny at the
identification stage followed by adequate feasibility
studies paying due attention to cost-effective and
appropriate technology; and
(e)   establishment of water user groups should precede the
engineering phase of irrigation schemes, and start up of
construction work should be made contingent on the adoption
of a system under which beneficiaries assume responsibility
for full operation and maintenance expenditures.
7.          All of these lessons have been or are being incorporated into



- vi -
IDA's operations in Nepal. Rural Development III Project (Cr. 1727-NEP) has a
longer-than-nonmal implementation period and includes far fewer components
than the earlier rural development projects. Agricultural service centers
have become a standard feature of all investment projects in the agricultural
sector. Under the sector-program approach to irrigation development,
supported by IDA and other donors, HMGN has streamlined the selection and
design criteria for small and medium schemes for which the demand must come
from the potential beneficiaries. All of these schemes are to be wholly
managed by water user groups who will also bear a proportion of the capital
cost.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS
(CREDIT 939-NEP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      With 93% of the labour force engaged in agriculture, the economy of
Nepal is almost completely agrarian. Some 10 million people out of a
national  population  of 17.6 million live in the hills and mountains of the
deeply dissected Himalayan Range. Due to a  restrictive  resource  base  and
limited  development  activities  in  the  sixties  and early seventies, the
agricultural production in the hills  had  not  kept  pace  with  the  rapid
population growth, leading to migration to food surplus areas, overgrazing
and deforestation, triggering a vicit-is circle of worsening environmental
conditions.
1.2      The  Fifth  Five-Year Plan (1975-80) marked the beginning of an era
of increased resource allocations to the agricultural sector and emphasis on
Integrated Rural Development Projects (IRDP). Consequently, during the last
two plan periods, 27% and 30% respectively, of total plan allocations were
made to the agricultural sector and out of eleven agriculture and watershed
oriented projects, seven IRDPs were implemented. IDA assistance to the IRDP
sub-sector began with support of the Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development
Project (RD I), through Credit 617-NEP which became effective in July 1976.
This   project  contained  provision  for  preparation  of  a  second  rural
development project, which was assigned to the Agricultural Projects Service
Centre of Nepal (APROSC), with assistance from the FAO/WB Cooperative
Programri,e. On this basis, the second IDA-assisted Rural Development Project
(RD II) Mahakali Hills, Credit J39-NEP, became effective in January 1980.
1.3      An  FAO/CP  mission  visited  the  project  in  Se,tember  1987 for
supervison and preparation of the project completion report (PCR). However,
when, upon the mission's recommendation, the project was extended for
annther vear, comnletion of the PCR was correspondingly suspended until
after project closure in December 1988. Completion was resumed by a short
FAO/CP mission in March 1989, after the introduction of the new PCR
guidelines. However, as the bulk of the report had already been drafted it
was decided to retain the old PCR format. The PCR is also based on a review
of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR No. 2401-NEP); the Development Credit
Agreement; World Bank supervision mission reports; project files and
progress reports prepared by the project.



- 2 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Proiect Origin
2.1      In   1978/79   HMGN   through   a   series  of  administrative  and
organizational changes had enhanced the role of local government (under  the
panchayat system) in formulation of village and district development
projects, and in planning technical, financial and managerial requirements
for development activities. At the time it was recognized that IRDPs. if
designed in line with RD I (which initially was performing very well), would
be suitable vehicles for implementing HMGN's local development policy. Thus,
the second IDA-assisted project to a large extent became a replica of RD I.
2.2      The Mahakali Hills  in  the  Far-Western  Development  Region  were
selected as a potential project area by an FAO/CP mission in March 1977 on
the rationale that this was the only hill area in Nepal which had road
access and where no major development project was under consideration.
Furthermore, the location was fully in line with HMGN policy of balanced
regional development as the region until then had received very little
attention.
Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.3      ile  project  was  prepared  by  APROSC  with the assistance of the
FAO/CP who also provided the TOR for the feasibility studies. Preparation
began in early 1978 and was concluded in November 1978 with the report, "A
Feasibility Study of Integrated Rural Development Project for Mahakali
Hills". This formed the basis for HMGN's request for IDA assistance and for
the subsequent IDA mission which visited Nepal in November/December 1978, to
appraise the project. The mission endorsed the project proposals, which were
largely based on experience gained during RD I. in principle. but made sub-
stantial reductions in scale of some operations. Cuts were made in
particular in agricultural, irrigation ard livestock development, and to
cottage industries, trails and bridges, and health services. The missioni
also excluded several schemes that were to be developed by other agencies or
projects,  such  as  water  supplies  and education programmes (UNICEF), and
forestry development (IDA). Furthermore, lack of technical data led to the
exclusion of the roads component and some micro-hydroelectric schemes.
2.4      Although,  in  retrospect,  these reductions were correct. too many
project components were retained under the project  to  make  it  manageable
with the given constraints. By the time of appraisal. HMGN had started to
introduce major changes in the structure of  rural  development  management.
with  focus  on  additional coordinating machinery and expansion of district
and village level planning authority. However, these chaniges came  too  late
to be fully taken into account at appraisal.
Project Description
2.5      The five-year  project  was  to  help  developing  the  three  hill
districts  of  Dandeldhura,  Baitadi  and  Darchula in which 53.300 families
resided. The principal aim of the project was to raise agricultural
production to levels whereby fariner families could subsist. The project
comprised:



- 3 -
a) Improvements   to  agricultural  production  tnrough  provision  of
agricultural extension, farmer and staff training, wider use of
seed of improved varieties, and adoption of better husbandry
practices. Availability of inputs would be increased through
establishment of cooperatives, provision of small warehouses and
credit. Services to farmers would be centred at a number of
administrative service centres located throughout the project area.
b) Livestock develooment through improved animal health services and
upgrading of the genetic quality of farm animals.
c) Development and improvement of hill and river terrace irrigation.
d) Establishment of anti-erosion measures to protect roads and other
infra- structure either developed or improved under the project.
e) Improved health care through construction of district hospitals and
health  posts  and  provision  of  staff,  equipment,   drugs   and
medicines.
f) Upgrading of facilities at lower and upper secondary schools,
construction of student hostel accommodation and provision of
teaching aids and staff.
g) Development   of   oanchavat  facilities  through  construction  of
community and  recreation  centres,  and  village  water  supplies,
improvement of shallow wells, and provision of training.
h) Improvement of communications through upgrading of existing trails
and construction of footbridges.
i) Development  and  improvement  of  gostal  services   and   cottage
industries.
j) Construction  of  buildings  and  housing  and  provision of staff.
equipment and vehicles necessary for project implementation.
III. IMPLEMENTATICN
A. Negotiations and Effectiveness
3.1      Negotiations took place with slight delays in May 1979. The project
was approved by IDA in June 1979 and the Development Credit Agreement was
signed in August 1979. The credit would become effective when HMGN had
provided the required funds to AIC, ADBN and DDC  for  implementing  project
components,  established  the  Zonal Coordinating Committee (ZCC). appointed
the Project Coordinator and made arrangements for the elDployinent of
technical  experts.  The above conditions were met in a timely manner except
for some delays in signing the UNDP's technical assistance programme and the
credit became effective in January 1980.



- 4 -
B. Overall Imglementation Experience
3.2      Despite the prompt start-up, the implementation of the project  ran
into several difficulties and was seriously delayed resulting in rather low
achievements in most project activities except livestock development, horti-
culture  development,  small  irrigation  schemes,  erosion  control and the
provision of credits. After three extensions, implementation of the project
was completed in July 1988, 3.5 years later than anticipated at appraisal.
Excessive delays in the release of funds and in the recruitment of staff
together with a serious shortage of trained staff and a high turn-over of
staff were major problems encountered in the implementation of all project
components. The construction programme severely suffered from inadequate
design  and  supervision,  and  shortage  of  experienced  contractors   and
construction materials. Delays in the construction of buildings, the most
crucial  infrastructure  in  support  of  the  start-up  of   most   project
development   activities,  adversely  affected  their  overall  performance.
"Major" irrigation was the least successful component, with only 37% of the
SAR target achieved, at a cost corresponding to 16% of total project costs
(SAR estimate = 12%). Inadequate farmer training and extension services due
to shortage of funds slowed down farmer acceptance which con- siderably
delayed and reduced project benefits. Villager acceptance of health and
education services was satisfactory but additional support is required. The
cottage industry programme achieved little of its targets and objectives
mainly   due   to   improper   and   rigid  training.  Although  the  social
infrastructure development/improvement such as water supplies, trails and
bridges, was found beneficial to villagers, poor design, improper siting and
lack of participation from villagers resulted in low utilization and in
rejecting responsibilities for maintenance. Construction performance greatly
improved during the last project year, when numerous ongoing works were
completed and yet a substantial number of new bridges were implemented
(paras 3.47 and 3.48).
3.3      A  comparison  of  SAR  and  actual  implementation  schedule   and,
achievements is given in Tables 1 and 2.
C. Imnlementation of Individual Comgonents
Agricultural Development
3.4      The main areas addressed by the project to increase crop production
were: a) establishment of agricultural service centres and strengthening of
agricultural extension service; b) crop seed improvment; c) provision of
facilities for input distribution;   d)  development  of  cooperatives;   e)
horticulture development; and f) provision of credit.
Establishment of Service Centres and Strengthening of Agricultural Extension
Service
3.5      Agricultural  service  centres.  Because  of  tho long delay in the
construction programme in 1982, HMGN decided to reduce the service centres
from 22 to 19 units.



- 5 -
3.6      The construction of buildings did not start until the third project
year and it suffered serious delay throughout the implementation period
(para 3.44). At project completion the office buildings and two quarters in
the districts and 17 service centres together with quarters were completed.
A further two service centres were completed shortly after closure. However,
some are still operated from rented premises.
3.7      A  few  service centres were not strategically located as they were
too near district headquarters or were not in the centre of farming
activities or the farming community. Most centres lacked basic amenities
such as drinking water, electricity and appropriate accommodation for staff.
Although the number of quarters provided was short of the SAR target (Table
2) many of those completed were not occupied since local staff preferred to
live in their own homes which were within travelling distance of the
centres.
3.8      Government   departments   such    as    agriculture,         livestock,
cooperatives,  postal  service  and  local  government  were  supposed to be
located in each service centre. The Department of  Local  Development  whose
main function was to coordinate the activities of all the implementing
agencies was not represented in all services centres, as a result  of  which
each agency planned and operated independently of the others.
3.9      Although service centres have performed useful functions it has not
been with maximum effectiveness. The SAR proposals appear to have been
ambitious, trying to accomplish too much in too short a period without
giving adequate attention to local constraints (para 3.44) and to sustaining
project activities during the post-project period. A two-phase programme
(about   7-10   years)   in   developing,   strengthening   and    expanding
infrastructure, manpower and project activities would have had a more
enduring impact on agricultural development.
3.10     Agricultural extension  service.   The  project  proposal  aims  to
increase the number of extension personnel and quarters, staff training and
extension activities.
3.11     The staffing strength achieved under the project was as below:
District       Assistant        Junior       Junior        Village
Agricultural      District      Technician   Technical   Agricultural
Development    Agricultural        (JT)       Assistant    Assistant
Officer      Development                     (JTA)         (VAA)
(DADO)        Officer
(ADADO)
SAR            2               1             13           26            282
Actual        (3)             (4)            30           38            235
Note: Figures in brackets indicate temporary staff.



- 6 -
Clerk    Storekeeger    Statistical    Messenger
Assistant
SAR        5           23                0             21
Actual      8           20               3             11
The posts of DADO were only filled in 1985/86, six years after project
commencement and they were temporary. Although there were six permanent
posts of ADADO in the three districts from project commencement until
1985/86, these were reduced to two in 1986/87 and in 1987/88 permanent posts
were replaced by four temporary ADADOs. Extension staff was below strength
for covering 134 village panchayats, i.e. the SAR provision to have one JTA
for every two panchayats and three VAAs for each panchayat proved to be
insufficient.
3.12     The  proposed  staff  training  programme  was   well   below   SAR
expectation (Table 2). No training programme was undertaken by the District
Technical Support Unit since it had no technical staff. Detailed proposals
for training were not submitted to IDA within twelve months of credit
effectiveness nor during the project period. A Training and Communications
officer was appointed to be responsible for training from about early 1981
to May 1983 but for unknown reasons, the post was not filled thereafter.
3.13     Although the agricultural extension service had been  expanded  and
strengthened it still had considerable weaknesses. In the maize survey
conducted by the MEU in 1985/86, approximately 50% of all the farmers
interviewed had not met their JTs/JTAs and VAAs and only 10% of farmers were
satisfied with the visits of VAAs. The situation has not changed since then.
Adverse factors include low staff morale due to low pay, inadequate housing
and mobility, late or non-payment of travel and subsistence allowances, lack
of training and temporary status of appointments.
3.14     Crog  seed improvement.  Improved seeds were distributed to farmers
in the form of a mini-kit, enough for each farmer to plant one rupani of
land.  Approximately  82%  of  the SAR target for wheat seeds (222 tons) was
met, 58% for paddy (70 tons) and 14% for maize. Potato seeds were not
included in the mini-kit. Distribution of mini-kits stopped after 1984/85
because it was considered that sufficient seeds had been distributed to
farmers in the previous years.
3.15     The  introduction  of  improved  varieties was most successful with
wheat, covering about 30% of cropped area presenLly, followed by paddy
(35%), maize (35%) and upland potatoes (3%). Paddy seeds distributed were
limited to only one or two varieties although more appropriate varieties
were required to cover the varying conditions (elevation, topography and
water availability) of the project area. Maize seed distribution was not a
success as the improved varieties were not suitable because of consumer
taste and long maturation period which could not fit into the cropping
system especially in the northern and higher altitude part of the project
area.



-7-
3.16     Service centres were not provided with hand w- 'owers  for  farmers
to clean their seeds as it was not considered to be a practical position.
Farmers continued with the traditional method of cleaning and storing their
seeds.
3.17     The project has made an impact in that use of improved varieties by
farmers is increasing. However, there is a need for adaptive trials to
determine varieties that are high-yielding and disease resistant and
suitable for varying altitude and water regime.
3.18     Agricultural  input  distriuution.  At  district  headquarters  all
targeted buildings except one staff quarters have been constructed by July
1988 and the staffing position corresponds approximately to SAR provisions.
Of  the  16 warehouses completed in service centres only seven could be used
because of lack of capital by the cooperatives as well as* lack of
transportation facilities to the centres. A fault with the design of the
cooperative stores is the lack of separate storage for fertilizers and for
seed.
3.19     AIC  was  responsible  for  the  storage  and  sale of agricultural
inputs. Sale of wheat seeds far exceeded SAR estimates (Table 2). Comparison
between SAR and PCR in the sales of fertilizers is not possible because the
volume of inputs sold is expressed in hectares and tons respectively. Data
are not available concerning the type of crops (and acreages) on which
fertilizers are used by farmers, rate of appliction, etc. However, a survey
by the MEU indicated that the supply of seeds, fertilizers and plant
protection chemicals was often unavailable or untimely and prices high and
beyond the financial capability of many farmers.
3.20     Cooperative  develooment.    In  all  20  cooperative societies were
established against 22 as planned at appraisal. Only 17 cooperatives had
been functioning and performance has been much less than anticipated due to
lack of working capital and problems of loan collection (in the absence of
organized marketing systems), resulting in limited credit facilities being
given by the Agricultural Bank of Nepal (ABN). The rather poor performance
of the cooperatives has resulted in a number of farmer groups being formed
with group responsibility for credit and input supplies. At the district
headquarters, three district cooperative offices, 20 cooperative sub-
centres, including warehouses (like the cooperative stores) and 18 staff
quarters were completed. So far, 16 managers and 823 farmers have been
trained for the cooperatives compared to the appraisal targets of 22 and 500
respectively.
3.21     Horticultural  development.   This  project component was a success
and exceeded appraisal expectations. The building at the horticultural  farm
at Satbanj station <1> (Baitadi district) was constructed and the area of
farm expanded to 29 ha. From this station, planting material of temperate
fruit such as apples, walnut, peaches, etc., were distributed while from
other sub-stations at lower altitude, sub-tropical and tropical fruits
(different   types   of  citrus,  mango,  etc.)  were  distributed.  Overall
distribution of fruit seedlings far exceeded appraisal targets (nearly about
88,330 as compared with appraisal targets of 22.850 - Tables 2 and 4).
Apples, walnuts and citrus were the most popular constituting about 86% of
total distribution. The supply of fruit seedlings was made possible because
of the establishment of 12 nurseries (1 government and 11 private). The
<1>      The station supplies saplings for two zones of nine districts.



seedlings distributed were adequate to cover approximately 150 ha of orchard
compared with the appraisal estimate of 40 ha.
3.22     Although there was  evidence  of  a  growing  demand  for  backyard
vegetables, actual production figures on area grown were not available. The
main vegetable seeds in demand were: radish, cucumber, cabbage, cauliflower,
onion, okro and spinach. To meet the demand for seed, seed gardens were
established at the AIC district centres. Approximately one ton of vegetable
seeds have been sold by the Agricultural Input Corporation and these would
he adequate to plant 50 ha of vegetables compared with the SAR estimates of
100 ha.
3.23     A  modest  training  programme  was undertaken during which some 33
JT/JA, 27 VAA, 43 leader farmers and 29 nursery owners were trained in
horticultural practices. The considerable expansion of private nurseries for
the production of plants was encouraging. However, there is a need for close
supervision of these nurseries to ensure that plants supplied to farmers are
true to type, healthy and disease free, and for an extension component to
improve farming practices. With the expected increase in production.
particularly apples, attention would need to be given to storage and
marketing facilities.
3.24     Provision  of  credits.   Apart  from the poor credit record of the
cooperatives, the agricultural credit programme on the whole exceeded
appraisal targets due to demand from individuals and farmer groups. Much of
the credit also went to the development of cottage industries, mini-
turbines, biogas and fruit processing in addition to crops, horticulture and
livestock.
3.25     The  Agricultural  Development  Bank  of  Nepal  (ADBN)  has   been
responsible  for the provision of production loans and medium-term loans for
crops and cottage industry development. ADBN had completed the construction
of  the  three  district  offices and recruited adequate numbers of staff on
time. Despite serious delays in the completion of irrigation works and low
achievements  in the cottage industry training programme, loan disbursements
greatly exceeded the planned targets as shown below:
Loan Disbursements
Fiscal Year ........ ..              Total
8/282/83  83184  84/85  I518    86/7          CR3t
L~~L                               _7AL    PCR     SAR
.    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   (NRsO000)  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Agriculture Loans       86    517    877   2,285  3.243  1,008    8.016  3.405
Cottage Industry       62      91    519      536    658    122    1.988    800
Loans
Total            JAB   jka    1.3Y6   2.82    LIU   1.130   1Q.00   4.Z05
3.26     Total loan disbursements during FY81/82-FY86/87 were NRslO million,
or   more   than   double   the  appraisal  estimates.  Of  the  total  loan
disbursements, NRs8 million (80%)  were  production  loaiis  including  crops
(20%),   livestock   (40%)   and   horticulture  (20%).  and  the  remaining
NRs2 million (20%) were mediuin-termn loans for  the  development  of  cottage
industries. However. due to poor loan recovery froii cooperative societ.ies.
loans disbursed to meinbers of cooperative societies were reportedly low at



-9-
about 20% of the total disbursements of agriculture loans. Due to lack of
adequate monitoring. data on loan recovery are at present not available.
However, it was reported that loan recovery from individual farmiers was
satisfactory at about 80%, while loan recovery from cooperative societies
was very low, between 20% and 30%. Loan recovery from cottage industry's
borrowers was also reportedly unsatisfactory.
Livestock Develoomer-
3.27     Because  of  the  importance  of  livestock  in  the economy of the
project area, special emphasis was given to provision of  facilities,  staff
and  equipment,  and  to staff and farmer training in livestock development.
Provision was also made for purchase and distribution of improved breeds  of
livestock for crossing with local breeds.
3.28     Veterinary  hosgitals  and disoensaries.  As proposed at appraisal.
the hospital at Patan in Baitadi district was improved by construction of a
laboratory and renovation of existing staff quarters. The laboratory was
provided with very basic equipment. Although not included in appraisal
estimates the check-point at Darchula was upgraded to a district hospital
and a new district hospital was constructed in Dandeldhura. Each district
hospital was staffed by 1 veterinary doctor, 1 JT, 1 JTA, 1 clerk and 1
stockman and this was below the SAR requirement of two teams of staff with
each team consisting of 1 JT, 2 JTAs and 1 stockman. It is not known why the
three dipping tanks (one in Baitadi district and two in Darchula district)
proposed for the control of ectoparasites of sheep and goats which were
prevalent throughout the project area were not constructed. At appraisal 21
veterinary dispensaries were proposed and these would be located at service
centres. At project completion 22 dispensaries were established and of these
only 18 were provided with buildings and staff. The remaining four
dispensaries continue to operate from rented premises.
3.29     Each dispensary has a staff strength of 1 JTA,  2  stockmen  and  2
messengers as against appraisal estimates of 2 JTAs and 2 stockmen in 1984
but in the following year the staff strength was reduced by 2 stockmen and a
messenger. This had a depressing effect on field programmes and to make up
for the reduction farmers and farmer leaders were trained to undertake field
activities within their communities.
3.30     Uograding  of  buffalo and other livestock.  At appraisal there was
provision for the purchase of.buffalo bulls (Murrah breed) for upgrading the
quality of local animals. The buffaloes were not kept in the service centres
or the hospital in Patan because of difficulty of farmers in transporting
their animals. Instead they were distributed to selected farmers who. under
the guidance of stockmen, looked after the animals and offered services to
other farmers at a fee determined by the family community in the traditional
manner. Fifty-five cross-bred Murrah bulls had been distributed up to July
1987 under the project and 13 bulls from government funds the following
year. About 695 female calves and 263 male calves have been 'produced to
date. The impact of this programme was not as widespread as was expected
because of the traditional system of destroying bull calves as soon as they
are born.
3.31     Although  not  included  in  the  original  SAR proposal. 30 Jersey
cross-bred bulls, 39 goats, 13,369 chickens were purchased from project
funds and distributed to farmers. Most of the Jersey progenies have died due
to poor management and other reasons. The distribution and sale (subsidized
price) of chickens to farmers was a failure since most farmers resold their



- 10 -
aquisitions to other farmers at a profit and mortality rate (by wild animals
including jackals) was very high.
3.32     Animal health care and feeding.  the most successful  programme  on
livestock develupment was the disease prevention and control programme.
Achievement in the treatment of animals far exceeded SAR estimates (Table
2). For improved animal nutrition, mineral blocks (230 packets of 2 kg each)
fodder saplings (10,078) and grass seeds were distributed to farmers.
3.33     Extension service.  The nomber  of  staff  has  increased  but  the
increase is less than the SAR target:-
Incremental Staff (No.)
Senior      Assistant      Junior       Junior      Clerk   Stockmen
Veterinary   Livestock   Technician   Technical
Officer       Officer                   Assistant
SAR        1             3             5           44          2         41
PCR        1             3             3           23          3         23
The posts of Junior Technicians were filled in 1982/83 but were  reduced  to
three from 1985/86. Likewise the number of JTAs reached the maximum of 30 in
1983/84, but was reduced to 23 the following year. No reason was given for
the reduction and it can only be assumed that this was due to high turn-over
(resignation)  of  JTs  and  JTAs  resulting  from   job-related   problems.
Experience indicates that there should be a minimuin of two JTAs and 1
stockman in each service centre. EVen allowing for staff reduction the
number of quarters provided (21) was short of appraisal estimates of 56.
Staff training was inadequate (Table 2) since no detailed training proposals
were submitted to IDA as stipulated and no training programme was drawn up
by the Technical Support Committee (para 3.12). Extension activities were
carried out and these included technical guidance by stockmen to farmers
given  project  animals,  farmers'  training  and  study  tours,   livestock
exhibition and distribution of mineral blocks, mini-kits, grass seeds and
fodder saplings.
3.34     Marketing of livestock oroducts.  Although stipulated at appraisal.
the Dairy Development Corporation did not carry out a study to determine
improvements to marketing and production of ghee. The study was not
considered by HMGN to be necessary since a preliminary survey by the
Department of Agriculture in 1979/80 had indicated that milk production was
negligible, scattered and costly to market and ghee production was not
sufficient to meet local consumption.
Irrigation Development
3.35     Two  agencies  were implementing this component: (i) the Department
of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM); and (ii) the Local Develop
ment Department (LDO) actina through the Chief District Officer (CDO) and
District Technical Office (OTO). Broadly the DIHM handled the 'large"
schemes  above  50 ha,  usually  located  in  the  valley bottoms. while the
LDD/CDO implemented all small hill terrace schemes below the arbitrary 50 ha
size.



- 11 -
3.36     DIHM schemes. The project was to develop a  total  of  ten  "large"
schemes  adding  up  to  675 ha of net command area. Implementation was weak
from the outset, as inadequate technical staff (or lack of staff), high
staff turnover and the remoteness of schemes made surveying, design and
construction difficult. Implementation was further hampered not only by poor
contractor services and cost escalations, but also by poor quality designs
and underestimation of costs. In one case a final cost estimate exceeded the
SAR estimate by over 250%. Of the portfolio of 10 schemes identified at
appraisal only one (Seltauna) was actually implemented together with three
other schemes (Shera, Banku and Oungkeli). Although repeatedly advised by
IDA missions to take up new schemes only if their economic, financial and
social justification had been clearly established, the project embarked on
these schemes without subjecting them to such scrutiny. As seen from the
table below these schemes have a total net command area of 250 ha which is
37% of SAR target. Unit costs have escalated from an estimated NRs1I,700/ha
at appraisal to an actual NRs59,000/ha, i.e. by about 400%.
.cheme     Command Area       Start of 1/    Area Irrigated          Total
NCA            Cotu Construction    in 1987           onstructioa
(ha)  ...     & Duration            (ha)             Costs
(years)                            (NRsOO0)
Shera          60       55       81/82 (6)             45              4,000
Banku          60       55       81/82 (7)             45              2,600
Seltauna    >120       120       82/83 (6)             35              7,600
Oungkeli    _.          20       83/84 (3)              6                600
Total        >265      250                            131             14.800
1/  Although the schemes are reported completed, substantial rehabilitation
works remain to be implemented until targeted areas can be irrigated.
3.37     By  the  end  of  1987  about  70 ha of the then completed area was
actually not beinq irrigated due to disputes over water allocation.
defective structures and canals. and landslides. Water users associations
have yet to be formed and a water charging system to be implemented (para.
4.18).  The  PCO  expects  a  substantial  performance  improvement from the
recently established district irrigation offices which will handle operation
and maintenance of, among others, the four project irrigation schemes.
3.38     LOQ/QTO  irrigation  schemes. During preparation some eight schemes
were identified and accepted at appraisal for implementation by LD0/DT0.
Provision was also made for financing further schemes that were to be
identified and included in the annual development programmes during project
implementation.  All  in  all  about  430 hi  of  hill  terrace schemes were
estimated to be improved under the project together with 260 ha of new hill
terrace area to be put under irrigation. By July 1988 about 31 schemiles with
a net command area of 673 ha had actually been completed. No distinction was
actually made between new construction and improvements as generally any one
scheme turned out to be a combination of both. Emphasis in the programille was
to provide more permanent key structures in existing systems such as
intakes, difficult cross drainage works and major distribution points. Canal
.lining works, mostly in stone masonry were also included where feasible.
Farmers' response and participation have generally been favourable but they



- 12 -
have  been  slow  in  accepting and organizing maintenance responsibilities.
Average costs invested into these schemes amiounted to abouit NRs6.000/ha
which is little more than 10% of the costs absorbed-by the "major" schemes.
Soil ConservatiorECrJsion Control
3.39     This component was primarily meant to be  institution-building  and
spreading awareness on erosion control through training and extension. In
addition, provisions were made for stabilization measures on 38 gullies and
for 160 ha of protective plantation. As foreseen at appraisal, a Divisional
Erosion Control Office was established at Patan, supplemented by field
offices  at Darchula and Dandeldhura district headquarters. Sufficient staff
were also employea. However, besides physical works implementation (the
project exceeded SAR provisions), little was achieved in terms of training
and extension, except in the last project year when conservation training
and education were intensified. Resources for physical works were spent
entirely on protective measures for the Dandeldhura-Patan road without
clearly establi.hing its priority need as against protection requirements at
irrigation schemes or other infrastructure.
Health ServiceS
3.40     Health  services were expected to be improved through upgrading and
construction of three hospitals, three district health offices including
staff quarters, 25 health posts, and increasing medical equipment, supply of
drugs and numbers of staff.
3.41     Except for the distribution of medical equipment and  drug  supply.
overall achievements were satisfactory. Two district health offices and 21
health posts together with staff qua-ters were completed. As a result of
inadequate  budget provision, the distribution of medical equipment and drug
supply was very little. Moreover,  many  health  posts  never  received  any
medical equipment and drug supply during the project period. However,
significantly more staff were recruited. A total of 215 staff, compared with
87 staff estimated at appraisal, are now working in the project areas. Due
to changes in HMGN's policy, the Evangelical Hospital at Pokhara District
had  been  given  another  nine years  lease and no hospital was const.ructed
under the project fund. However, two hospitals including staff quarters and
attendants  accommodation in Baitadi and Darchula districts were constructed
under HMGN's regular programme.
Education
3.42     This  programme  aimed  at providing more hostels and classrooms as
well as teaching materials to secondary and primary schools in the project
areas. It was planned to construct five hostels, upgrade 121 schools and
provide teaching material for 417 schools. The start up of the programme was
delayed by one and a half years. Except for staff, overall physical
achievements were very low. The implementation was hampered mainly by the
inadequate budget provision and delays in the budget release. Due to
shortage of experienced staff for planning in the Ministry of Education.
development proposals were not regularly and properly prepared, budgets were
therefore untimely and inadequately provided and particularly in FY85/86 no
budget was allocated. Progress was further aggravated by the late budget
release due to excessive delays in preparing statement of expenditures of
previous years. To date a total of 90 schools were upgraded and four hostels
were completed. The quality of construction was, however, poor. Provision



- 13 -
for furniture (desks, chairs) has never been adequately made while provision
for teaching aids was insignificant.
Village Water Sugolies
3.43     During  implementation  of  RD II  a  simultaneous UNICEF programme
provided significant assistance in the development of new village water
supplies in the three project districts. The project therefore concentrated
efforts in this component on the improvement of some 225 existing wells and
springs through construction of shelter structures, provision of outlets and
protection from waste-water drainage. The DTO was the implementing office.
As in all other civil works this component suffered from insufficient
technical staff aggravated by remoteness and the scattered nature of work
sites for survey as well as implementation. Panchayat participation has been
unsatisfactory in many places. Thus the accomplishment was only 128 improved
wells and springs, which is 57% of SAR target. The project also supported
the construction of a water supply scheme for Patan village and the project
headquarters. During FY 87/88 12 new water supply schemes were financed by
the project and all were completed by project closure. There are no details
available on the state of maintenance of completed scheme3.
Building Construction
3.44     Construction of a large number  of  buildings,  including  district
offices  for  the  various  line  departments, staff quarters, health posts,
hospitals, agricultural service centres, schools, hostels, project head
quarters at Patan, etc., were undertaken (Table 1). Designs have been
adequate in most cases but numerous office buildings and quarters have been
designed with flat roofs of RCC without any slope for rainfall run-off,
which is both inappropriate and wasteful in remote areas where cement and
steel   has  to  be  handcarried  over  long  distances.  While  quality  of
construction is variable, it has been sub-standard in the majority of cases.
Construction involving cement masonry and RCC work has been the worst
particularly because of the inexperience of contractors (who often under-
bid), shortage of skilled masons and inadequate engineering supervision at
the  widely  scattered  construction  sites  with  difficult   communication
facilities. Slow release of funds, delays in paying contractors and staff
not being acquainted with MOF regulations were other adverse factors.
Construction work started moving at a reasonable pace from 1983/84 onwards.
Development of Trails and BridUes
3.45     The project through the DTO was to upgrade, widen and improve  five
existing major trails and eight minor trails up to a total length of 250 and
350 km respectively. In the three districts an estimated total of 128 timber
bridges were envisaged. Three sites for suspension and some 16 sites for
suspended bridges had been identified on existing main trails during
preparation. Out of the total trail improvement target of 590 km only
339 km, or 57%, were achieved, which was mainly due to the fact that
preference was given to new trails as against improvement of existing ones.
However, the shortfall is still significant and relates also to mis
appropriation of funds at village level through contractors and technicians,



- 14 -
shortage  of  skilled  labour  and overseers, and too many small contractors
under the "piece work system" <1).
3.46     The OTO was to implement  the  abovementioned  128 timber  bridges.
16 suspended and 3 suspension bridges. The latter would have spans of about
90 m and would be designed and constr-ucted with the assistance of the
Suspension Bridge Division of HMGN Roads Cc.ujartment. Up to mid-1987 the
project had completed 33 wooden bridges and 6 suspension/suspended bridges,
with three still under construction. The absence of suitable (durable)
timber is giveh as the major reason for the substantial under-achievement.
However, lack of adequate technical staff to survey, design and supervise
construction was the factor most responsible. In several instances materials
had been brought to site or were stored elsewhere for excessive lengths of
time so that essential materials had either decayed or been pilfered before
construction could start. In other cases inexperienced staff built bridges
with too little consideration for flood hydrology with the result that they
were washed away. The suspended and suspension bridges are generally of
acceptable standards but due to their greater structural complexity do
require maintenance by relatively skilled personnel.
3.47     For  the  last  project  extension  the  authorities made a serious
effort to implement a further 26 bridges, including steel truss as well as
suspendei and suspension bridges. Of these, however, only nine were
estimated to be completed while surveys and designs were to be carried out
for all, and materials procured for as many as possible, within the
available budget allocation.
3.48     Surprisingly, this rather ambitious programme not  oniy  got  fully
implemented but was exceeded. Instead of the estimated nine a total of 17
new bridges were implemented, with only some finishing works, such  as  link
roads and gabion protections, spilling over the project closing date <2>. In
addition, two bridges which had been left incomplete for years were
completed.  This  remarkable  achievement was the combined result of lessons
learned form earlier years, timely flow of funds, expedient procurement,
skilled staff and a strong leadership exercised by the PCO.
Postal Services
3.49     The project aimed to improve postal services through  provision  of
furniture and fittings for existing post offices, and construction of
19 additional post offices and 50 small relay stations for mail runners.
3.50     The programme commenced in FY81/82 and achieved very little of  the
planned physical targets. During the project period it was found unnecessary
to construct the relay stations because mail runners meet only for exchanige
of  mail.   Thus, only 16 additional post offices were constructed. of which
two remained uncompleted. Moreover, many of the completed post offices
remained  idle  due to problems in siting them away from villages where most
people would normally visit them more frequently. The provision of equipment
and furniture was satisfactory. At present about 176 staff are working in
the project area, compared with 38 estimated at appraisal.
<1>      A given work is divided into pieces (contracts). not exceeding
NRs5O,000 each.
<2>      All works are reported to have been completed during current FY
1988/89.



- 15 -
Cottage Industry
3.51     The main objectives of the programme were to develop  a  wool-based
cottage industry and subsequently to help increase the level of income of
the hill people. Funds were also provided for cottage industry surveys to
identify existing skills, production and marketing channels of various
cottage industries and to determine the;r prospects for future development.
3.52     Although the required staff was in place,  the  programme  achieved
very little of its planned physical targets and objectives. Due to lack of
interest and enthusiasm in the Department of Cottage and Village Industries,
it failed to construct an emporium, staff quarters and carry out the cottage
industry surveys. Moreover, despite the relatively large number of trainees
(704), the quality of training was, however, low due to the rigid training
period (three months) and inadequate training equipment and material. Very
few graduate trainees set up their own businesses or found employment which
was reported to be lower than 20%. Moreover, except for training in woollen
works the choice of training for other cottage industries did not correspond
to the needs of people and market demand. The metal and wooden works and
leather goods were either given little attention or entirely neglected.
Failure in identifying and developing a proper training programme was due to
lack of information which was supposed to be supplemented by the cottage
industry surveys which were not carried out under the project. Despite the
low quality and improper training, the actual loan disbursement greatly
exceeded the ippraisal targets (para 3.25).
Technical Assistance
3.53     The  SAR  provided for 12 man-years of internationally recruited TA
staff and consultants, funded by UNDP. Actual composition of the team and
duration of assignments are detailed below together with sub-contracts made
for special tasks. Although in general the team provided a valuable input to
project implementation some of its potential impact has been impeded
(following paras).



- 16 -
Technical Assistance Team
Team Member               Date                 DeRemarks
Specialization            Joining             SeDarating
Civil Engineer            4/1981              4/1984
Assistant to PC           4/1981              8/1982
Socio-Economist           - /1981             9/1983
M & E Advisor            10/1983             11/1985
Sub-Contracts  (1)        2i1981              10;1981         Local sub-contract
to design Head-
quarters building
and water supply
(2)         n.a.              n.a.            Evaluation of a
proposal for
Phase II of
Rasuwa-Nuwakot
(3)       11/1982            9/1983           Preparation of a
proposal for
Phase II of
Rasuwa-Nuwakot
3.54     The  Assistant  to  the PC and the Socio-Economist primarily served
the Rasuwa-Nuwakot (RD I) project although they did administer initial
efforts toward the RD II project. The PC's office was not established at the
headquarters (in Patan) until the second year, and even after becoming
operational, most of the officers of that office were not fielded until much
later.
3.55     The Civil Engineer's work focused on assisting the OTO in technical
planning, design and implementation of minor irrigation works, buildings,
water supplies, trails and bridges. His services have been appreciated as
useful. However, his overall contribution would have been enhaniced if he had
been  provided  with  adequate  counterpart  staff  as  well  as   technical
volunteers.
3.56     The  M & E  Advisor established a project monitoring and evaluation
unit  in  the  PCO  and  helped  institute  a  regularized  and   systematic
trimestrial reporting system for monitoring of project progress. He also
trained staff in relevant procedures and fields related to rural develop
ment, introduced computerization of data storage and processing. and
prepared a manual on IROP monitoring and evaluation. He also conducted
several surveys and impact studies.
3.57     The TA team helpeu to organize a six-weeks training course on rural
development for 15 participants in the Philippines. Further it organized
study tours for project officers in India, Sri Lanka, Philippines. Thailand.
China and Malaysia, totalling about 35 man-months. One planning officer  and
an officer from the LDD were sent to the United Kingdom for training. During
the project it became apparent that the prospect of overseas training or



- 17 -
study tours were an attraction tc work in the project which later became an
expectation. However, once the training was completed the staff member often
sought transfer to another project. During most of the effective project
implementation period there was no training officer in the PCO who could
have organized in-country trair'ng. Therefore much needed training of
artesan  skills  (mason,  carpenter,  plumber,   construction   worker)   as
recommended  by  IDA  missions,  was  not  undertaken,  except  through sou,c
technical workshops organized by the M&E Advisor in 1985. The TA team also
participated  actively  in local beneficiary training in the principal areas
of cottage industry, agriculture and livestock.
O.  Project Costs
3.58     Total project cost, over a period of five years, was  estimated  at
NRs16O.4 million (US$13.5 million). Tables 5 and 6 present the actual
project expenditures and a comparison between the appraisal and actual
project cost. Despite excessive delay in implementation, the actual project
cost including UNDP's technical assistance was NRs161 million which is equal
to the appraisal estimates. Although the cost of construction significantly
increased as a result of excessive construction .delay. and a shortage of
construction   material,  the  overall  reduced  physical  targets  and  the
exclusion from ti;e project of the recurrent costs of many project activities
(e.g.  OQA,  AIC,  ADBN,  education, public health, postal service) were the
main reasons for the low project expenditures.  These  recurrent  costs  had
been financed under HMGN's regular budgets *since 1986/87.
3.59     In  terms  of  US$,  due  mainly  to  the  above  reasons  and  the
considerably high depreciation of local  currency  of  a4out  30%  over  the
project  period,  total  project  costs  were  9.32 million,  or  69% of the
appraisal estimates.
E. Financing and Disbursement
3.60     The estimated and actual IDA and  UNOP  financings  are  summarized
below, while the proceeds of IDA credit are presented in Table 7.
financing
--   SA 8R ..........    ...... .... . Actual . ...
HMGN   J~8 a UNE  Total  HMGN  ILA    UtA1
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .(US$  million)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
I/
Technical Assistance &    -       0.03  1.09   1.12   -    0.00  0.76   0.76
Training
Other Development Costs  0.68   8.25   -        8.93  2.19  6.37   -       8.56
Contingencies             LO.L6  .... ..3.40              - _       -      _
Total                1.3 JL.Q2 11         1145 0iS2 1 6  7  Q.M1     9 232
1/ Insignificant.



- 18 -
3.61     Total financing from IDA was US$6.37 million, or 40% lower than the
estimated credit, while total grant from UNOP was US$0.76 million, or 30%
lower than the appraisal estimate. However, contribution from HMGN was
US$2.19 million or nearly double the appraisal estimate of US$1.36 million.
3.62      IDA's  disbursements  were  extremely  slow  throughout the project
period. Major causes were excessive delays in construction of civil works,
recruitment of staff and excessive delay in the preparation of statement of
expenditures (SOE) for disbursements. The former resulted in low utilization
of the allocated budgets while the latter was caused by severe shortage of
trained staff in both the line agencies and the Auditor General's Office
(AGO). Insignificant disbursements had been made during the first three
years (IDA FY80-82). However, disbursements improved rapidly particularly
when more physical progress had been achieved and later when the PCO played
a vital role in alerting the line agencies in the timely preparation of SOE
and in helping them to consolidate SOE for disbursement.
F. Procurement
3.63     Procurement was the responsiblity  of  the  implementing  agencies.
Imported items (e.g. vehicles, equipment, etc.) were procured under the
international  competitive  bidding  (ICB)  and  local   material,   locally
manufactured items and contractors were purchased and employed under HMGN's
procedures including direct purchase (value up to NRs1,OOO), local prudent
shopping (value 'above NRsl,OOO up to NRs5O,OOO) and local competetive
bidding (value above NRs5O,OOO up to NRs2.5 million). No major difficulties
were encountered under direct purchase and loc3l prudent shopping. However,
delays occured under ICB due to difficulty in preparing specifications and
the considerable amount of time taken in obtaining approval from both IDA
and HMGN. The employment of contractors under the local competitive bidding
also faced serious delays due to the lengthy procedures of the local
bidding, shortage of experienced contractors and the remoteness of the
project area.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Imolementing Agencies and Coordination
4.1      While overall responsibility for coordination of  project  planning
and implementation was vested in the Ministry of Panchayat and Local Develop
ment (MPLD, formerly MOHP) and was exercised by the Central Coordinating
Committee (CCC), individual project components were implemented under the
responsibility of the line ministries and agencies involved.
4.2      Under the local administrative structure  prevailing  at  appraisal
the panchayats, assisted by the Chief District Officer (CDO) were autonomous
in planning and coordinating the district development programme, through
which most project works were implemented, but implementation and funding
was still the responsibility of the line agencies. In 1982 this system was
reformed in a Decentralization Act which was followed by Decentralization
Rules in 1984. These strengthened decentralized planning and implementation



- 19 -
with a larger percentage of development funding passed through the COO
directly to the village panchayats and not through line ministries.
4.3       The implementation of the decentralization exercise took some  time
to become fully established. For instance, it required the setting up of
treasuries in all the districts and the training of staff to man these
effectively, especially in how to release funds and which programmes were to
be funded from the districts and which were to be centrally controlled.  Co-
ordination was also made difficult by lack of precise instructions from the
centre concerning the role of the various coordinating agencies, e.g.
coordination ccmmittees headed by the district administration, supervision
committees  headed  by  chairmen  of  Panchayats  and   the  *IDRP   central
coordination committee which met twice a year but whose various sub-
committees met every two months. Absorption and application of the new
system therefore required time and this had considerable delaying effects on
project implementation.
4.4      The siting of the Project Coordination Office (PCO) in the  project
area was an important innovation compared to the arrangement made under RD I
where the Project Coordinator resided in Kathmandu. Thus, the PC could
directly and actively assist in district planning, including the preparation
of annual programmes by the project officers of the line agencies. However,
the PCs remoteness from the Ministries also appears to have stimulated their
inclination to revise or outrightly ignore these programmes. Prior to mid
1987 due to the remoteness of project areas the PC spent most of his time in
Kathmandu, thus his role in coordination  and  in  providing  assistance  in
district planning had never functioned satisfactorily.
4.5      Although  not  specifically  formulated  in the SAR, the project of
necessity had a considerable institution strengthening function and there-
fore included provisions for incremental staff, offices, staff quarters and
equipment, within each of its components (Tables 8 and 9. At appraisal an
assurance had also been obtained from HMGN that staff would be appointed as
scheduled. However, from the outset the project had to struggle with
formidable staff problems: late sanctioning of posts, delayed recruitment,
lack of qualified applicants, high staff turnover, lack of incentive and low
staff morale. There are reports of numerous cases where staff took positions
and then deserted their offices and duties. Most significant was the extreme
shortage of technical staff as visualized in the table below, which reflects
the situation in mid-1985.
Comparison Between Aporaisal Targets and Actual
Positions of Key Staff (mid-1985)
a8:         Sanctioned           Filled
Targets   Nn.   % of SAR   No.   % of SAR
1.    Technical staff:
(a)   Overseers/Sub-overseers/         93       63        68       22       24
Engineers
(b)   Other Technicians               573      572       100      497       87
2.    Administrative Staff            226      239       106       222      98
Total                      E       874                741 



- 20 -
4.6      Not only did the severe shortage in technical staff cause excessive
programme delays but it was also at the root of the general absence of
quality control.
4.7       In a situation where even  the  PC  office  and  the  TA  component
suffered from understaffing and frequent staff transfers (including PC and
TA teamleader) the project 4mpact obviously remained weak. Only during the
1987/88   project  extension  oeriod  did  the  staffing  situation  improve
somewhat. However, the institutional capacities created, such as the M & E
unit, and staff trained in rural development activities still require to be
incorporated into MPLD's and the line agencies overall framework and to be
sustained under regular HMGN programmes.
Monitgrina and Evaluation
4.8      The project provided for strengthening  of  a  socio-economic  unit
established under RD I in the office of the Chief, Project Coordinator
through the appointment of additional staff and the provision of technical
assistance for training of local counterpart staff for evaluation and
monitoring activities. The unit (MEU) was also to conduct a baseline survey,
and   other   surveys,   and   feasibility  and  other  studies  on  project
implementation  and  agricultural  practices  and  to  prepare   a   project
completion report.
4.9      The  MEU  obtained  the  services  of an expatriate socio-economist
consultant for three years who provided the required training of local
counterparts and helped in the design of ad-hoc studies for monitoring
project implementation (para 3.56). However, shortages in trained and other
staff as well as frequent staff turnover, made it difficult to obtain
accurate field data for analysis.
4.10     The MEU managed to organize  the  following  five  survey/reporting
activities:   a)  a  baseline  survey,  carried out by the Central Panchayat
Training Institute, (report published in 1984);   b)  a  report  on  project
construction activities by the technical advisor in 1984; c) a farm survey,
carried  out  by  the  unit  in  1985;   d)  a  project  report  on  project
construction activities in 1984; and e) crop surveys for paddy. Nheat and
maize carried out by the unit. However, due to several errors in data
collection and inexperienced staff in the project area, the studies carried
out by the MEU have yet to be published.
4.11     The unit has, since 1985, been able to have a  full  complement  of
staff and has therefore been able to improve on coordination of the
activities of the various implementation agencies by helping in their budget
preparation activities and in improvement of presentation of budgets to thp
Ministry of Finance for release of funds in addition to its surveys and
monitoring activities.
4.12     Although  the  baseline survey and the 1988 crop survey were fairly
comprehensive they lacked an in-depth analysis of financial returns on farm
enterprises and off-farm employment earnings and, as such, do not provide a
good basis for evaluation of the project's effects on farm incomes.



- 21 -
Reporting and Accounting
4.13     Progress  reports  were  prepared based on information furnished by
the implementing agencies. Due to shortage of and inexperienced staff in
both the implementing agencies and MEU, information and progress reports
were collected and prepared irregularly and often with delays. However, the
situation has recently improved when most of the staff have been in place
and more experience has been gained. During FY79/80-FY86/87 only a few semi-
annual reports and all annual reports were prepared. Due to budget and staff
constraints in PCO after project completion, the progress report for FY
1987/88 is expected to be published only in May 1989.
4.14     The  line  agencies  have  been responsible for preparing Uroject
expenditure accounts which have been subsequently audited by AGO. Although
separate accounts were established on time, SOEs and audit reports were
prepared with excessive delays. Major causes of delays were shortage of
staff and the lengthy and cumbersome procedures of clearing and publishing
of official audit results which are generally released after presentation to
the Cabinet during April-June of each year. Delays in preparing SOEs had not
only slowed down IDA's disbursements but also the budget release which
seriously jeopardized progress of field activities.
4.15     The  certificates  of SOEs and audit reports during FY79/80-FY83/84
were completed only in July 1986, but the separate audit opinions have not
yet been prepared and would be difficult to do so. The SOE and audit report
for FY84/85 were also completed in July 1986 anc for FY85/86 and FY86/87 in
August 1987 and 1988. Though the FY87/88 audit report is completed it has
yet to be published -vhich is expected in August 1989.
Compliance with Covenants
4.16     Many :; the major covenants, particularly those conditions required
prior to credit effectiveness, were in a timely manner complied with.
However, HMGN failed to prepare the training programme, carry out cottage
industry surveys and collect water charges. Moreover, HMGN had not recruited
project staff and prepared audit reports on time.
4.17     Although  no  training  programme  was  implemented,  a  number  of
overseas study tours and diploma level training was organized for field
staff under the UNDP's technical assistance programme. Due to lack of
interest and enthusiasm in the Department of Cottage and Village Industries,
the cottage industry surveys were not undertaken (para. 3.37).
4.18     The project failed to introduce a water charging system in the four
irrigation  schemes  implemented  under  the  DIHM   component   of   "major
irrigation."  The  two  reasons given are late completion of the schemes and
lack of cadastral and statistical data on which to base water charging.



- 22 -
V. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Intended Impact
5.1      Project benefits were expected to come from:
a) increases in foodgrains, other crops, fruits, milk and meat
production, and animal products;
b) generation of employment and reduction of under-employment;
c) environmental improvement as a result of erosion control programme
and the horticulture development which was expected to reduce
deforestation and foster proper use of land resources;
d) social   and   welfare   benefits   including  the  improvement  of
communication facilities (trails, bridges, postal services); health
care (water supply, health services) and education in the rural
areas;
e) the improvement of nutritional status of rural hill people.
5.2      As   a  result  of  using  improved  seed  varieties  and  cultural
practices, increased use of fertilizers and agro-chemicals and timely
provision  of  production  loans,  the annual incremental production at full
development was estimated at 25,000 tons for foodgrains, 1,650 tons for
potato, 440 tons for pulses and oilseed, and 1,000 tons for vegetables and
fruit. The improvement of livestock services, extension and farmer training,
as well as provision of improved seeds, would increase meat and milk
production and availability of animal products.
B. Actual Impact
Production Impact
5.3      Crop production - net crogged area.   The  mission  estimated  that
there has been no significant change in net cultivated area in the three
project districts over the project period. At appraisal this area was given
as 54,900 ha, as against 45,380 ha stated by the HMGN Department of Survey,
Topography Division, Kathmandu. The latter was considered by the mission to
be more reliable and hence adopted to assess project impact. Likewise the
total cropped area estimated by the mission is based on the annual reports
of the Department of Agricultural Marketing Services. Appraisal and PCR
estimates of net cultivated area, total cropped area and cropping intensity
are summarized below:



- 23 -
..5A   .          ...             ...... E       
Without With         gL-      'Prgsent      With
oject  ProQject       Project                Proigct
(1990)   (1990)      (1979/80)  (1987/88)  (1992/93)
('000 ha)          . . . . . ('000 ha)  . . . . .
Upland paddy               12.2      11.5          7.0        9.1         6.7
Lowland paddy               7.7       8.4         4.0         5.0         6.2
Maize                      18.8      18.8          9.8       12.8        13.7
Wheat                      18.2      18.2         10.6       16.7        20.2
Others                     24.0      24.0          9.4       13.6        12.2
Total net cropped area    80.9       80.9        40.8        57.2        59.0
Net cu.tivated area        54.9      54.9        45.4        45.4        45.4
Cropping intensity         147%      147%         90%        126%        130%
5.4      Data  on  the   total  area  irrigated  under  the project were not
available, nor a breakdown into fully irrigated, partially irrigated and
rainfed areas as proposed at appraisal. At full development the cropping
intensity is estimated to be 130%, which is lower than the SAR estimate of
147% because the availability of irrigation water is less than anticipated
at appraisal.
5.5      Cropping pattern, Yields and production.  The  trend  that  can  be
derived from the available statistics indicates increasing areas and
production of grain crops, particularly wheat and maize (Table 13 and para
5.3). Comparison of SAR and PCR estimates is given below:-
Percentage (%) of total cropped area
la                                      .    . .   .   SR... .... ..... B      
Without     With          Ea-          Present
Projiect    Project      Project                     Pro'iect
(1990)     (1990)       (1979/80)    (1987/88)    (1992/93)
Upland paddy          15         14            17            16            11
Lowland paddy         10         9             10             9            11
Maize                 23         23            24            22            23
Wheat                 18         18            26            29            34
Other crops .1/       34       3.              23            24           21
Total                100        100           100           100           100
1/  Includes millet, barley, potato, oilseeds, pulses.



- 24 -
At full development wheat, paddy and maize would continue to be the major
crops. However, contrary to expectation, wheat would become the most
important crop instead of paddy because of the limitation of water supply
for greater expansion of paddy.
5.6      SAR estimates  of  crop  yields  for  the  future  without  project
situation appear to be on the low side (Table 14). This is due to farmers
using slightly more fertilizers than expected although the amount used is
well below recommended rates. Fertilizers are costly and supply is untimely
owing to difficult terrain and poor road infrastructure. The mission assumes
modest yield increases under the project and considers improvement in soil
conservation measures and making and storage of compost to be a better and
cheaper way of enhancing soil fertility, under prevailing conditions.
5.7      At full development, the project is estimated to increase foodgrain
production by about 14,400 tons compared with SAR estimates of 25,200 (Table
15).
5.8      Croo/farm bud_et.  Owing to lack of data, crop and farm budgets are
simplified. Physical input requirements per hectare (Table 16) and a 0.9  ha
farm model to represent the average farm size holding are prepared. At full
development the net farm income (including hired labour costs) would
increase by 45%.
Gross Income           Net-Income,
............ (NRs) .
Without Project                5,740                2,485
With Project                   6,780                3,610
The  SAR estimated the net farm income increase to be from 50-130% depending
on the farm sizes 0.5 ha and 1.5 ha and the ecological zones consisting of
Zones I and II covering paddy-wheat rotation and Zone IV, high altitude zone
where potato production predominates.
Horticulture Production
5.9      According  to  the SAR there would be an increase of about 600 tons
of fruit from 40 ha of additional fruit trees and 500 tons of vegetables.
from  100  ha  of vegetables. A meaningful analysis of project impact is not
possible because of unavailability of data and these include the acreages of
different types of fruits (more than 7) and vegetables (more than 7 types)
planted, mortality rate in the case of fruit , crop yields  and  production.
oroduction  costs,  etc. Twelve fruit nurseries were established and approx.
*,8,300 plants have been distributed. Assuming a 15% mortality rate in the
field, approximately 150 ha of fruit trees have been planted. Except for
walnut and almond, other fruits have started production very recently. On
the basis of the sale of seeds by the Agricultural Input Corporation. it can
only be assumed that a minimum of 50 ha of vegetables have beer. cultivated
during the project. Most of the vegetables are consumed by the growers and
their families.
5.10     Livestock production.  Even this comnponent's impact is difficult to
assess due to lack of data. The Agricultural Marketing Services started
collectimig data on milk and meat production for the three distric.ts only a
year ago. Estimates of production of the SAR, the District Livestock Office
in Patan, the Agricultural Marketing Service and the Bench mark survey of



- 25 -
the Department Qf Survey vary considerably (Table 11). The District
Livestock Office in Patan. Baitadi, in a sample survey indicated that the
mortality rate of livestock has been reduced by about 5% and milk
producction increased by 15%. These are higher than the appraisal estimates
of 3% and 10% respectively. Due to the poor performance in upgrading of
buffalo and other livestock (paras 3.30 and 3.31) the impact of this sub-
component has been well below expectations.
Social Imoact
5.11     Trails and footbridges. These communication facilities are not only
of vital importance in facilitating social and economic activity in the
three project districts but also by themselves constitute an important
factor in locally planned and implemental development activities. Of total
achievements, as reported above, some have exceeded and some remained behind
expectations, however, the social impact of the component is significant.
There is, however, a danger that outside intervention will reduce self-
reliance among benefitting communities. The trail rehabilitation was largely
a deferred maintenance programme and the experience that funds have been
provided and technical assistance given may discourage self-sustained
maintenance.
5.12     Water  sugolies.  The  above  applies  similarly  to  water  supply
facilities improved under the project. However, as each facility has a
relatively  small  group  of  beneficiaries,  maintenance  should  be   less
problematic.
5.13     Health  services, education. cottage industry and postal services.
The improvement of health services was reportedly useful in terms of
providing more facilities to in-patients and drugs to out-patients as well
as in stimulating hill people's awareness on health care. The educational
programme provided more classrooms and accommodation to students in the
remote  areas.  However,  benefits  generated  from  the  cottage   industry
development and the improved postal services were reportedly insignificant
due to problems in conducting improper training programmes and errors in
siting post offices.
5.14      Institutional  imoact.  The  project  satisfactorily  achieved  its
objectives in  establishing  infrastructural  and  institutional  bases  for
retention of project activities and expansion of similar rural development
programmes in the future. The level of staff skills had been enhanced up
through local and overseas training and foreign technical assistance.
5.15     Emolovment  generation.   Employment  was generated mainly from the
agricultural sector as a result of using improved seeds and cultural
practices, the construction and improvement of infrastructures and project
management. Due to lack of information, the expected incremental  employment
from   the   agricultural   sector  cannot  be  quantified.  However,  about
1.1 million  man-days  are  estimated  to  have  been   generated   by   the
construction   and   improvement   of   infrastructure  during  the  project
implementation period. Moreover, at least 200 permanent jobs were created
under the strengthening of project management.
5.16     Environmental   impact.   The expected environmental impact has been
limited. Although the erosion control programme has been ecologically very
beneficial, it has been confined to the Dandeldhura-Patan road only. As
there has been no saving of arable land as a result of soil erosion control
measures no relevant benefits, as anticipated in the SAR, have materialized.
Due to low achievements and delays in the completion of irrigation schemes



- 26 -
their impact on reducing surface run-off is expected to be small. The
plantation of trees is expected to reduce deforestation, foster proper use
of land resource and increase fruit production. A positive impact is also
expected from the conservation training and education in schools.
5.17     Nutritional impact.  Nutritional  impact  attributable  to  project
incremental foodgrain production has been significant. The total foodgrain
deficit in the project area has considerably reduced, while tute per capita
consumption has increased (see Table 18 for food balance). Despite the rapid
increase in population of about 20% in the project area during 1975-86 the
foodgrain deficit decreased from about 40% during 1975-80 to 30% in 1985/86.
The total foodgrain deficit was about 17,200 tons during 1975-80 and 16,600
tons in 1985/86. The per capita foodgrain consumption increased from 83 kg
during 1975-80 to 93 kg in 1985/86. Among the three districts, Darchula
district has currently become self-sufficient in foodgrain production.
However, due to significant decrease in foodgrain production in Baitadi
oistrict,   resulting  from  the  continuing  bad  weather  conditions,  the
foodgrain deficit increased about 10% during the same period.
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.1      At appraisal the economic rates of return (ERR) had been calculated
for the components of agricultural development, irrigation, livestock and
the whole project which included in addition to the above components the
benefits and costs of the horticulture development. The ERRs, calculated
over a period of 20 years, had been estimated at 50% for agricultural
development, 12% for irrigation, 15% for livestock and 21% for the whole
project.
6.2      Due  to  lack of agronomic data resulting from the poor performance
of the MEU and the absence of impact study, no attempt has been made to re-
estimate the economic rates of return (ERRs) for the irrigation, livestock
and horticulture development components ar,d the whole project. However,
based on a modest crop survey which was carried out by MEU in 1988, district
crop production statistics and assumptions made by the mission, the ERR for
the agricultural development component including impacts from minor and
major irrigation schemes has been calculated. Details of assumptions on
costs and benefits are presented in Annex 1. The ERR has been carried in
1989 constant prices and is estimated at 46%. The high ERR is attributable
to the modest cost of the extension services and input (inproved seeds), and
the relatively high incremental yields (15%) resulting from the adoption of
improved cultural practices and improved crop varieties. However, due to
excessive delay in construction and cost overrun the ERR for the irrigation
development component alone would be negative. Similarly, the ERR for the
whole project is expected to be lower than the appraisal estimnate of 21%, as
a result of the poor performance of the irrigation development and lower
achievements in the development of the vegetable cultivation (para 5.9) and
the upgrading of the quality of livestock (paras 3.30 and 3.31).



- 27 -
VII. IDA PERFORMANCE
Project Design and Appraisal
7.1      With  the  benefit  of  retrospect,  knowing that some of the short
comings of RD I were repeated in RD II, it could be argued that this could
have been avoided. However, at the time of appraisal, although having been
operational for over two years, the RD I project was still in a phase of
expanding activities and overall enthusiasm. Moreover, HMGN at the time
considered RD I to be a model case for future IRDPs. At appraisal it was
accepted, therefore, that the new prcject would have a large number of
components as well, although this later turned out to be a major shortcoming
of both projects. Nevertheless, the forestry component was removed rromn the
project at appraisal, as it was to be addressed in a national forestry
project then submitted for IDA support. The complexity of the project.
involving 18 implementing agencies, was exacerbated by the remoteness and
poor accessibility of the three project districts.
7.2      The  confidence  of  the  Bank  in  the ability of line agencies to
recruit and post the required number of staff appears to have been
excessive. Shortage of staff and/or lack of qualified staff turned out to be
the most difficult of all constraints to deal with, and was never fully
resolved.
Sugervision
7.3      The Bank fielded a total of 12 supervis)on missions over the eight-
year  period  of  implementation,  which  was  somewhat  below requirements,
particularly when considering that nine of them were one-man missions. More
emphasis should have been placed on engineering and agronomic inputs into
missions. Direction and guidance were in partizular demand in "major'
irrigation development, which accounted for over 12% of project expenditure
but turned out to achieve very little development impact.
7.4      The Bank has been generous in  granting  three  extensions  to  the
project, motivated by a very late start of the project activities and the
many implementation constraints already amply discussed.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND tESSONS LEARNED
8.1      Since  the  Fifth  Five-Year Plan (FY75-FY80), HMGN has placed high
priority on agricultural sector development with emphasis on Integrated
Rural Development Projects (IRDP). The first IDA assistance to IRDP began
with support for the Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project (RD I). which
became effective in July 1976, and contained provision for preparation of a
second rural development project. This was selected in line with HMGN
policy of balanced regional development in the far Western Region, which
until then had received very little attention. It was a bold step into
developing three hill districts of the Mahakali zone. which, apart from a
jeepable road access to Dandeldhura district centre, had not seen any
noticable development activities before. The development reouirements and
expectations were correspondingly high, which was reflected in quite



- 28 -
substantial targets proposed at preparation stage but which were trimmed
down at appraisal to what was then thought to be a manageable project.
However, implementation faced more difficulties than could reasonably be
anticipated as the project had to cope, not only with administrative,
financial  and  managerial problems related mainly to remoteness and access,
but also suffered a major earthquake.
8.2       Oespite a prompt start-up, implementation of the project  soon  ran
into difficulties. In an environment where it was often impossible even to
rent rudimentary office buildings before being able to construct a minimum
of such buildings for project implementation, considerable time was needed
to build up adequate implementation capacity. This resulted in slow
disbursement over the initial three years, necessitating an equally long
extension of project closing oate, up to July 1988. Achievements, in terms
of physical targets, of most project components were, however, substantially
below the appraisal estimates except in some activities such as livestock
development, horticulture development, small irrigation schemes, erosion
control, distribution of inputs, and the provision of credits. Main problems
encountered in the implementation of all project components were the
excessive delays in the release of funds, in the recruitment of staff
together with a serious shortage of trained staff, especially engineers and
technicians, and lack of quality control. The remoteness of project areas
and   high   turnover   of  staff  added  to  the  difficulties  in  project
implementation. Most of the completed physical targets had been undertaken
largely during the last three years of the implementation period when most
of the key staff were in place and experience gained. The construction
programme was most seriously delayed and badly jeopardized progress in
almost  ail  project  development  activities.  Project   coordination   and
management were weak during initial implementation years but improved curing
the last two years when significant: progress was made. However, the
provision of adequate incentives to increase staff morale and thereby reduce
staff turnover has yet to be worked out to ensure successful project
implementation in remote areas.
8.3      Overall,  the  project  achieved  the  main objective of increasing
production as well as improving the welfare, social and environmnental
conditions of rural hill people. Production increases at Full development
(19.400 tons of foodgrains per year) appear to be encouraging though these
increases  are  20%  lower  than  the  appraisal  estimates. The significant
production increases comprised wheat, barley and potatoes. Production of
oilseeds showed a negative trend which, however, should be compensated for
by the substantial  increases  in  ghee  and  fruit  production.   Impact  on
livestock development was reportedly significant particularly the increases
in number of stock, the production of milk and ghee, and the reduction of
livestock mortality rates. The impact of the horticulture programme will
take longer to be felt, however, production of early planted fruits has
already started with reported strong demand still existing for seedlings.
8.4      The  social  impact  is  reported  to  be  significant though it is
difficult to measure. It includes more and better communications facilities
and water supplies, and the improvement of health and educational levels in
the rural hill areas. However, the  health  services  require  more  medical
equipment and drug supply, and more teaching material is needed in
education. Some errors in siting of postal offices will need to be
rectified.  The  project's  environmental   impact is expected to be minimal.
Although the erosion control programme has been ecologically beneficial, it
has been confined to the protection of the Dandeldhura-Patan road only.



- 29 -
8.5       Finally, the project achieved its objectives in establishing infra-
structural and institutional bases for sustaining project activities.
Substantial programmes in agricultural training  ano  demonistrations.  input
supply and credit, fruit seedling distribution, livestock health services.
and other activities were already HMGN financed during FY 86/87. FY87188 and
FY 88/89. Building maintenance however remains a problem, especially in
service centres outside district headquarters.
Lessons Learned
8.6      The  following  are  the  main lessons that could be drawn from the
experience of RD II.
a) Rural development projects in remote h1ll areas require  ir,ore  time
to  reach  full  implementation  strength  and  should therefore be
designed for a longer duration, or in two phases. of which the
first should focus on infrastructure development and training,
while the second should be directly production oriented.
b) As already appropriately contemplated in RD III, prcject resources
and activities should be focussed on a smaller and more specific
number of priority components and not "dispersed" over a wide range
of sectors.
c) Service centres are very useful in acceleratiiig agricultural
development provided that they are strategically located and do
provide adequate living and working conditions for their staff.
d) Ore corner stone&of RDPs is the caoability of implemienlting phiysical
infrastructure. especially buildings  and  commiiunication  links  on
which othier project activities depend. This capability greatly
depends on the timely establishment of adequate staff strength,
especially overseers. which needs highest attenltion already at
project preparation stage. Linked to this is the provisiorn of
acequate staff accommodation which has been given low priority when
actually implementirg this project.
e) The absence of adequate quality control has been at the root of the
poor delivery in civil works construction under the project and
requires profound remedy through:
- improved professional capabilities  and  strengtilieninig  of
supervisory authority of staff;
- empowering of staff to oversee arid reject sub-stanidard
materials, faulty works arid poor contractor perforimiance;
- improvement of quality control procedures.  accouLntability
and monitoring;
- standardization   of   materials.   methiods.   design  arid
construction.
f) As demonstrated during the last project extension, it is possible
to achieve substantial targets  in  infrastrumcture  developimmemit  in
remote areas, once cominunication links are fUnctlonimig. the flow of
funds is secured, a reasonable staff strength is maintained without



- 30 -
excessive turnover and if a strong leadership is exercised from the
PC's office.
g) The per hectare costs of "major" irrigation schemes have turned out
to be excessive and far above those for minor hill terrace
irrigation schemes, which confirms the experience of RD I and
indicates the need for a more rigid scrutiny of scheme proposals
followed   by   feasibility-level   studies.   Cost-effective   and
appropriate technology needs to be applied rigorously.
h) Irrigation water users groups and committees should be established
prior to scheme development and implementation should be made
contingent upon the adoption by beneficiaries of a water charging
system that ensures adequate coverage of 0 & M expenditures that
would relieve HMGN from future involvement.
i) Sustainability of project facilities and services, including 0 & M
should be actively pursued as a major project objective of each
component, especially those that are production oriented.
j) Monitoring and evaluation is a fundamental requirement to generate
continuity and progress  in  development  activities.  Although  it
needs a pivot point in the project office, actual field monitoring
is the responsibility of line agencies, who therefore should
provide the necessary facilities and expertise.



?*PJ
SHUM) MM. IlVkIUIIXI IMUHr - IVWUALI MUIIJS l(tl.*-NIP)
lpl<mataticrn Sduxiule of  i<ai t2mp3mmts
1979/w8     1980/81      1981/8Z     19RV83        1983/84     19/B4r8    vis5/ab       1918687       19'7/8a        'rotal
ltbm/Acvity                     unit.  smR   wcr   sW   MT   S          TAcr  MR s ALI  sm       Ae r    R s  Cr A-  IR  FACI  Mg-R  ACr   smR    Ar    sA1-1AL
1rriaio  Sdins
&xusxt.ui(m by~:
A. trriqatLin  Ibpartmut         Ha     0      -     NA    -            -             -  675 I/    -    - *                20     -   160      -     21      67o   250
B. Ilfl)/D
- luxil teerracu  sdwr.   b          0     -      14   40    N4   69       NA   111   690 1/  119          93      -    15     -    35      -     192    69D    673
& no  terraa  sdws iV      (Tt.)
HFllth Servwiams
lWspita1:;2/                     No.                  1    -       1    -                                                                7-  -  -    -  -  -  -  -  733-  -  2  - 3/t
HSp,italSt1f dMrtAr-            lb            -      2    -       -    -      1      -                  -      -     -     -     -      -     -      -        3     -       -
Puticirt. attJAlnt acxl M.       ND .                      -      2    -       -      -     1                   _           2     -      -     -      -        3     2
Dtstrict. hointh otfi,r          Nl      -            1    -       1    -      1     -      -       1           1     -     -      -     -     -      -        3     2
HlaltJ pmti                      MD            -      5    -       6    -      6     4      6       1    2     4      -     2      -     4     -      6       25    21
tblthw pi  stafl qamrtlrv.       "D.    -      -      5    -      6    -       6     3      6       1    2      5     -     2      -     4     -      6       2     21
Fd2LdmazlM
A. CA.t.nt.imn
- IBgridiog ltwr :X'Kry
rnftsol:                    No.   15     -      2D    -     Z)  12    :1       :     16                  1(      -  -     -        -      -      -     1t0    8i
- Uplndirig :xzxKry
sdcmsi                     lb.    -      -       5    -      5    3       5     .t    -        -                 -           -     -      -      -      15      7
-Sr4xwbry ndxml horlAhs  Nb.    -          -       1    -      2    -       2     -              1    -     1     -      -     -     -      -      2       5      4
B. Ttmdiszq aid .uqI ies
- Prilury udxmlts             Nn.  75      -    I(1   62    1(1)  36    3fi   71)           -     -    -         -      -     -      -                  312   168
- lmrer uzvu                  ND.    -     -      15    -     20 10        Zi   29       )            -     -     -      -                         -      CA)  .39
- SLury    rmols              NO.    -     -       -    -      5    -       5     7     5        -    -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -       15     7
_  _ _  .                                                                                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       19R3/84      1984/R5       1985/86      1986/SZ       1987/88         TotI-1
Ita3t/Act viLty                  Unit   SAR   ACr  SARl  ACLT   SAf   tCT'  SR   ACr   SAv    Acr   wi   Acr  S                ACT   SAi   ACT    SAI    AC         SAR    ALT
Paxtuyat DLk*wIiqmft
CxmnsU-ixfUcn:
- Di-Irict rYtI'smtas              )i.    3             -    -       -    -      -       1      -       2    -       -     -      -     -      -              -       3       3
- Pa ntrtIumt tXm                 %)                    6    -       6    -      7       -      -       2            5     -      4     -      2               -     19      13
- TnAwlrsh ' rT"st Imjani         ND.    -              6    -             -     7                  -                -     -      -      -                     -     19
Trails and lBic.g.m
ilf 6 :vrry tndalsi
irprowuvrt                      IQ      i             (1    -      -   97       -     62    '(X) 1/ 3I      -   1'       - -              -      -       -        590   :347
Ct't - !1-nict't.i, of wrxie
brtfl'                          NE).   O)              -            3  -    2          Ii   12t 1/   7             8      -     7                                 12, 1   33
S/Szr;wn;lzrl bidcprr;   Nn.    U                             -            -             2      191,   2             1      -     1                           A) -  /  19    26      w
INmiu. tsmin ridl Wirk:;
Stablia/Ifq" :ull quiley!;                               1    1       3    .3     7      4       5       3           3      -     2      -     -                     lb      19
StAblitvu      larx ' (pil lir-                         4    4        5    .5     7      6       6       2    -      3      -     2      -                     1       2     ZI
Muna--orV prraat                          -                   1     NA    1    hA         1     W        -    -      -      -            -                     -     Nrf      3
Plantat ion                       IlI                        13     3)  2S    79        51      60      :16         :16           -      -     -       -      65    1       l(  160
1/ i.ilt %R ..
2,  Pnm!ithus of b1m. *rily.
I  3hs prvid*xd tJwrxmt INN prugri L.
4/ lhme werrn  init.eatni tNxfort 1987 mul alxmt 8 wenr  cxxpletcd ut 1918/89.
NnWt:  l1x  mplim.mtat io  sdwdul.' for uator mnWly t-.Ei3i hin mral tJx  MTpOrtivd.
I~ 11 4
ICD
CD



- 33 -
Table 2
Page 1
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS (CR.939 NEP)
Summary of Physical Achievements
5AR          Tgtal        % Of
Unit    Target    Achievements    SAR
July 88 I/
A. Agriculture
Agricultural Develonment
District Centres                  No.         3            3          100
Sub-Centres                       No.        22           19           77
Staff Quarters                    No.        90           23           23
Staff                             No.       376          373           99
Training - JT/JTA                 No.       303           70           23
AA                    No.    2,799         1,056           38
Demonstrations & Farmers
Days                           No.    4,665         1,609            35
Credit & Input SupplV
AC
- Offices                         No.         3            3          100
- Warehouses                      No.         3            3          100
- Quarters                        No.         4            3           75
- No. of staff                    No.        13           17          130
Credit Institutions (Coop)
- ADBN                             No.        3            3          100
- District Coop. Offices           No.        3            3          100
- Warehouses                       No.       22           17           77
- Quarters                         No.      27            16           59
- Coop. Society Sub-centres        No.       21           17           81
- No. of Coops.                    No.      21            17           81
- Managers                         No.       22           16           73
- Messengers                       No.       22            3           14
Trainina
- Staff                            No.       22           16           73
- Farmers                          No.     500           823          165
Seed Mini-kits Programme
- Paddy                            Ton       70           36           51
- Wheat                            Ton     223           183           82
- Maize                            Ton       81            -            -
Credit Reguirements
(i) Insecticide - liquid            Litre       -          319            -
- powder           Ton        -            8             -
(ii) Fertilizers 2/
- Nitrogen                      MT          -         290             -
- Phosphorus                    MT          -          197            -
- Potash                        MT          -           20            -



-34 -                                  TabLe 2
Page='2
Unit    lar,et    Achievements    S
Julv 88 1/
(iii) Irrigated Area
- Paddy                          Ha       450          n.a.           -
- Maize                          Ha       350          n.a.           -
- Wheat                          Ha       350          n.a.           -
(iv) Seed Reguirements
- Paddy                          Ton       26           25            96
- Maize                          Ton        5            2            40
- Millet,                        Ton        2            -             -
- Wheat                          Ton       40          142           355
- Vegetables                     Ton        -             1            -
Horticulture Prooramme 2/
Satbanj Station Expansion          No.         5            1           20
Fruits                        Seedlings  22,850       79,325           347
Livestock Develonment
Hospital (improvement)             No.          1           1          100
Dispensaries (sub-centres)         No.        21           22          105
Quarters                           No.        56           18           32
Staff                              No.        96           53           55
Vaccination (cattle/buffalo)    Head  126,500    176,343               140
Animal Treatment                  Head          -    148,877             -
Parasite Control                  Head  126,500    222,817             176
Training (JT/JTA)                  No.       199           12            6
Farmers' Days                     Days        71           58           82
Farmers' Training                  No.         -         312             -
Irrigation Development
ID - Construction                  Ha (net  675          250 l/         37
District Schemes - Con-         irrigable)
struction & Improvement          Ha        690         673            98
ID - Staff                         No.        10            8           80
B. Social Services & Infrastructure
Water Supplv
Office                             No.          1           1          100
Quarters                           No.          -           3            -
Improvement Works                  No.       225         128            57
New Schemes                        No.         -           12            -
Health Services
Buildings
- Hospital                         No.         2  4/
- Staff quarters                   No.         3            -
- Attendant accommodation          No.         3  4/        -            -
- OHO                              No.         3            2           67
- Health posts                     No.        25          21            84
- Health post quarters             No.        25          21            84
,Eauipment                         No.        21           16           76



- 35 -
Table 2
Page 3
SAR          Total        % ot
Unt Target    Achievements    $AR
July 88 1,/
- Hospital                  No.        16          38          240
- OHO                       No.         8          56          700
- Health Post               No.        63         121          190
Educati n
Buildings
- Improvement of schools           No.       121          90           74
- Secondary school hostels         No.         5           4           80
- Equipment                        No.       417         214           51
Panchavat Develooment
Buildings                          No.        22          17           77
Staff                              No.        12           5           42
Radios                             No.        22           3           14
Postal Services
Buildings                          No.        69          16           23
Staff                              No.        38         176          460
Cottaae Industry
Buildings
= Emporium                         No.         1           1          100
- District centres                 No.         3           3          100
- Sub-centres                     No.         2            2          100
- Quarters                         No.        24           2            8
Staff                              No.        10          10          100
Overseas Training                  No.         4           2           50
Credits                       NRs million    0.8           2.0        250
Cottage Industry Survey TA         No.         1           -            -
n  Local counterpart  No.           1           -
Trainees - Woollen works           No.         -         18Q
Wooden works           No.         -          20
Cotton weaving         No.         -         188
Dressmaking            No.         -          65
Others (bamboo)        No.         -        243
Total                                        704
Trails and Bridges
Trail Improvements                 Km        590         347           59
Suspended/Suspension Bridges    No.           19         *26          137
Wooden Bridges                     No.       126          33           26
Soil Conservation/Erosion Control
Buildings - offices                No.         3           3          100
- quarters              No.        10           3           30



- 36 -
TabLe 2
Page 4
SAR          Total        %. of
Unit    Target    Achievements    SAR
July 88 I/
Vehicles                          No.         2           3          150
Staff                             No.        13          10           70
Erosion control works
- Stabilization of gulleys        No.        38          45          118
- Nursery                         No.         -           3            -
- Plantation                      Ha        160         225          141
C. Proiect Administration
DTO & Project Coord. Office
Buildings
Offices  - DCO                    No.         1 i/        1           100
- OTO                   No.         3           3            100
Quarters - DCO                    No.        37           3  &/         8
-DTO                    No.         3           1  i/        33
Transoort
- 4-wheel vehicles                No.         3           3           100
- Motorcycles                     No.         6           5            83
- Horses                          No.        10           4            40
Staff
- OTO                             No.        25          22            88
- DTSU                            No.        22          23           105
Monitorina & Evaluation
Staff - Full-time                 No.         5          16           320
- Part-time                 No.        11           0             -
Technical Assistance
Foreign personnel               Man-yr        9          10           111
Consultant services             Man-yr        3          NA              -
Vehicles                          No.         2           2           100
Fellowships (overseas)          Man-yr       12           2            17
Study tours                    Man-months    -           35             -
1/  A. Mainly because of the onset of the monsoon some of the works
programmed to be implemented during the project extension 1987/88
could not be completed by July 1988. However, as the spill-over into
FY 88/89 was not very significant and was completed soon after the
monsoon, such deferred completions were treated as achieved by July
1988.
B. Staff strength and training activities have seen further expansion in
1987/88 but as these were achieved under HMGN financed prograinines
they have not been included in the total achievements quoted.
Z/  Estimated in terms of hectares in SAR.
./  About 50 ha would still need to be fully developed, either new or
rehabilitated due to defective structures.
4/  HMG constructed two hospitals.
5/  Located at Patan and including training centre.
6/ One quest-house and one staff-quarters.
2/  Two districts: Darchula and Baitadi, are occupying the same building
as staff-quarters.



NEPAI
SECONO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NAHAKALI HILLS (CREDIT 939-NEP)
Physical Achievements of the Aaricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC)
Total as at           Total as
Progr _                                    SAR Target        Dandeldhura        Baitadi       Ourchula         July 1987 1J         S of SAR
A. Civil Works
District offices (No.)                      3                  1                1                                3                 100
Warehouses (200 ton) (No.)                  3                  1                1               1                3                 100
Staff quarters (District) (No.)             3                  1                1              1                 3                 100
Watchman's quarters (No.)                   3                  1                1              1                 3                 100
B. Inout distribution/sales _/
Fertilizer sales  (mt)                      -                  -             600.1             2.14            677.6
Insecticides - powder (ut)                  -                  -                3.70           0.89              8.41
liquid (mt)
Improved seed:  Paddy                       -                  2.3             14.0            7.6              23.9
Wheat                     -                  8.4             90.1           43.8             142.2
Maize                     -                  0.7              0.1             1.2              2.0
Vegetable                  -                 0.4              0.2            0.2               0.8
Source: AIC.
1/ Since FY 1987/88 the programme is supported by HMGN.
2/  Expressed in SAR in terms of cost/ha of various inputs for various crops at recomended rates. Since these vary
between rainied and irrigated crops, comparison between targets and achie.ements becomes extremely difficult.



HEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NAHAKALI HILLS (CREDIT 939-NEPI
Horticulture: Saplings Distributed by Year
Type of Frult                       1980/81        198118        1982783       198314        1984185       1985786 11       Tal
Apple                                3,554          4,292         7,965         8.710        10.163         5.285          39,964
Pear                                    366           508           618           563           309           502           2.866
Peach                                   595           457           534           609           640           696           3.531
Apricot                                 140            78           388           425           658           494           2.183
Plum                                    157           228            94           187           149           101             916                                c
Walnut                               2,924          2.919         4.302         3.306         2.394         1,946          17,791
Almond                                  420            17             -             -             -           198             635
Others                                1.389         1.321        2,364          2.346         2.434         1,580          11,434
Total                                9,545          9,820        16,265        16.146        16.747        10,802          79.325
Source: N & E Unit. ROP II.
1/  Since FT 1986/87 the progrime Is supported by  NGN.                                                                                                     v



HEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NAHAKALI HILLS (CREDIT 939-NEPI
Comparison Between Anpraisal Cost Estimates and Actual Costs
Aporaisal Cost Estimates              Actual  Cost                   Actual as X of SAR
"Rs eil1n       USS oilln        NRs ohilin       USS iion mil lio
Acr1cultur
Agricultural Development                   14.65              1.23           14.93            0.86               102         70
Credit and Input Supply                    12.IS              1.02           15.33            0.89               126         87
Horticulture Development                    1.00             0.08             0.95            0.06                95         69
Livestock Development                       6.61              0.55            8.42            0.49               127         85
Irrigation Development                     18.70              1.57           25.33            1.47               135         94
Sub-Total                            S3.11              A.45            64.963712QI
Social Service and Infrastructure                                                                                                                             '
Water Supply                                1.59             0.13             8.44            0.49               531        377
Health Service                             23.30              1.9S            7.06            0.41                30         21
Education                                   2.87             0.24             1.62            0.09                56         33
Panchayat Development                       7.79             0.65            13.31            0.77               171        118
Postal Services                             0.84             0.07             O.S1            0.03                61         43
Cottage Industry                            5.00             0.42             3.99            0.23                80         55
Trails and Bridges                         19.80              1.66           26.48            1.53               134         92
Erosion Control                             7.47             0.63             9.33            0.54               125         86
,Sub-Total                            68.66             5.75            ,0.                                             21
Prolect Administration
Project Coordinator's Office               21.59              1.82           12.14            0.70                56         38
Technical Assistance                       17.07              1.43           13.14            0.76                77         53
Sub-Total                            38.66              3.25            258ZL            1.46 LA 
TOTAL                                160.43            13.45           160.98            9.32               16



HEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS ICREDIT 939-HEM
Prolect Expenditures
(NRs million)
FY79/80    FY'iOAI 80/I81         FY '82183   FY 83/8    fY 84/8    FY 85/86   fr86/07   FY-871          TOTAL
(estimates)
Agriculture                           -         0.34        1.40        2.34       2.66        2.64       2.41        3.02        0.12      14.93
Hort'culture                          -          -           -          0.29       0.33        0.33         - it       -           -         0.95
Livestock                             -         0.19        0.69        1.51       1.67        1.87        1.35       1.13        0.01       8.42
Irrigation:  Major Schemes            -         0.31        0.73        1.49 -     4.58        5.10       3.80        4.03        0.00 i/   20.04
Minor Schemes           -         0.03        0.35        0.49       0.14        0.97        0.14       0.29        2.88       5.29
Erosion Contro'                       -         0.17        0.68        1.19       1.31        1.39       0.85        1.43        2.31       9.33
Water Supply                          -         0.04        0.46        0.65       0.19        1.28        0.19       0.38        5.25       8.44
Trails and Bridges t/                 -         0.15        1.66        4.11       1.52        3.78        1.71       1.98       11.57      26.48
Cottage Industry                      -         0.08        0.35        0.28       1.11        1.14       0.57        0.?'        0.21       3.99
Education                             -         O.OS        0.21        0.54       0.28        0.15         -         n           0.39        1.62
Health Service                        -          -          0.27        2.06       2.04        1.10       0.77        O.ia        0.44        7.06
Postal Serices                        -          -          0.21         -         0.10         -         0.08        0.08        0.04       0.51
ADBN                                  -           -         0.18        0.58       1.57        2.82       3.90         -           -         9.05
AIC                                   -         0.04        0.06        0.66       2.88        1.32         - _/       -           -         4.96
Cooperatives                          -         0.06        0.30        0.56       0.17        0.02       0.21         -  31       -         1.32
Local Development 2/                 0.19       0.01         -          0.04       3.01        6.38        1.16       1.84        0.68      13.31
PCO                                  0.30        1.33       0.96        1.60       1.84        1.58        1.25       1.38        1.90       12.14
TOTAL                          0  ~4g      28          8.51      183         25.4       31.87       18.39       16.li      25.8       147.84
I/ Including suspension of bridges.
2,  Including staft quarters for service centres.
,I  Not Included under project expenditure gRsD.95 million). but under N)SN s regular budget.                                                                 I!



_ 41 -
Table 7
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS (CREDIT 939-NEP)
Proceeds of Credit
sR,      ACTUAL
(USS million)
Civil Works                                                5.50       3.62
Vehicles, equipment, furniture and material                1.75       0.86
Agricultural and cottage industry sub-loans                0.35       0.55
Training and local consultant services                     0.40       0.00 1/
Project staff salaries and allowances                      2.00       1.34
Unallocated/unused balance                                 LQQ       AI
11.00     11.00
1/ Insignificant.



9H1M) IWML IWJYIIV1N  PIWInrr - WMi .1 IUUS (at.939-NEP)
Perforummm of Agritiltura] ad Liv toc Trainima Pewir
19iO/81     1981/82     1962/83     1983/84       1964/85     19115/8      19856/7     1957/88      Toal
1t.AuIvity                     uhit   wAlt  N      SRAN    r  SAl  MAF  s               sAWAF   SAD           r  SM -c    SAcr  sAlt ANr
Agria<otArxl l0mloqamt
Jr/Jr                           ND.  40       1    45    2      60   10      79    13    79     16      -    2D     -     2     -   (24) 30         70 (24j
M: Spi.xcial cAmnais           NM.   58    32    115  1W       196  109   282   174   282    230        -   351     -     -     -  (115) 933          1(t 1115)
pIr- miuxin                Nl.  58t    -    115    -    196    -    232        -   282      -     -     -      -     -     -     -   933
famUtly                    No.  58       -    115    -    196    -   282       -   282      -     -      -     -     -     -     -   933        -
1=miraUcwwtM    & Fanmer Ibys   No. 2Yt)  'JU   595.  129   980  135   1410   275  1410    295         -   315      -   370     -     - 416S    1(m1
1iftmreleur 'I'rainig:
Jl/.TrA                    ND.   14    0       31    1    44    1    55        2    55      3      -     3     -     2     -    (3) 199        12 (3)
FI,r lsyi                       ND.   3       1      9    3     15    6     22      9    22     11     -    13      -    15     -     -    71       5R
Sourw: N&It 6    Lit MP IL.
Note:  Figwus ir b xtu refer to 111  finenix prvgrn         .
I!



NPL
StU) MEW 1EYIaln ,'Dmmr -   IAU lUllJS (aC.939-O)
Agricultaural and Livestock Staffing HeqUiremnts and PerforHnCe
i19O/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84       1984185    1985/86    1936/87       19B7/88
Itmu^ctivit9                   _    SWRAL T                      AScr    R r   ACT   SAW -ALT  SAR  Acr  sai  ACT  SAH  oAn
Agrioulturat DVevqPelaat
DW)                            Nb.   2    -        2   -      2    -      2     -    Z       - 2       (3)   -   (3)   -   (3)
Assinitmn. LO                  Nb.   1    6        1   6      1   6       1    6      1     6    -    6       -    2      -   (4)
JT                             Nb.   -    9        1  10      7 11       13   13   13    18    -   3D         -   2811) -  (3D)
JrA                            Mb.   -   11       4   13    13  17    26   19   26    28               38    -   3519) -  (38)
MN                             Nb.  58   42    115  13   196 165   282  185  282   211            -  235    -  235    - (235)
CUmr                           Mb.   5    3       5   3       5   4       5    3    5       3     -    4      -    4      -   (8)
Stortkpwx.r                    Mb.   3    3       9   6      15   9    23   15   23    15    -   15    -   18             -   (2)
StatkstmAca Assistanom         lb.   3    1        3   1      3   1       3    2    3       2    -    3       -    2    -    -
lIk-.;IxNW.m                   Wkl.   2    3       1   6     13  12    21   1b   21    19         -   19      -    91181-   (11)
lbAr: Figuri in paranUx.uis; n'pn'wxt tag"rary -Ataf.
LitsvrIAx Ik DClcpamt
TIn    Ii StaffT 
Scuor Viteromary Orf mcr            Iad tl  project. a;u prrvidmxl untr regular budt.
All)                           Mb.   3    3       3   3       3   3       3    3    3       3    3    3    3    3    3    13)
JT                             Ml.   3    3       3   3       5   5       5    5    5       5    3    3    3    3    3    (3)
.rTh                           lb.   3    3    3)  16    32  28          44   30   44    30   23   23   i3               23  (23)
Clerkt  cxAamntjt.)            ND.   3    3       3   3       3   1       3    3    3       3    -    -       -    -    -    -
libtruvr                       lb.   3    :3   17  17    29  29    41   41   41    41             -    I    -    I    -    (1)
Stioru                          b.   -   41       -  41       -  41           41      -    41     -   41      -     3)   -    -
Nlte: Figures in parmnusius indiuai?e pmts. ukw HWM reIgular bx*pt.
1!



] z~~EL
SEC=U RURAL IBEVEtLOPNIII PROJECT
oIIULI HILLS ICREODI  939-HEM
LIYeStOCL Treatment and Sistributlin of lmroved Stock by Year
198olal  1981182      198Z18       1293184      19841asl5s  198586          19867 11       1219
Oisease treatment                     9.440         13.302      26.982       21.541       33.268       27.708       16.628         148.877
Vaccination                              390        11.524      22.823       2b.064       28.S96       60.914       26.032         176.343
Brenching                             5.788         49.804      33.300       40.321       53.482       26.646       13.476         222.817
[maroved Stock *istributlon
Buffalo (bulls)                            -             7            9           13           20            4            2              63
Cattle (bulls)                             -                         12            6            3            4            1              26
Goat                                       -             -           10            6            0            -            2              26
Chicken                                    -             -        1.310       3.820        2.586        3.6S3             -          11.639
Source:  H b E Unit, ROP II.
/  Froa  FY 1987188 the progr_e Is sustained fram  NRGE regular budget.                                                                                   c



NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANAKALI HILLS ICREDIT 939-hEPl
Livestock Numbers and Performance
Tvye of Animal
and/or Performance      O. andeldhura . .         .                           . .     Oarchul  . . . .O l  .   .  .   . . Total  .    . . . .
A 11    1 21                                    P 3_ f                                  A                      _      JAl1 41
Numbers
Cattle               37,300  58,015   74,034   81,400  100,105  92,244   35,100  72,272 _/  21,727   153,800  230,392 _/ 188,005   251,140
Buffaloes            21.500  19,328   61.850   55,6JO   31,058  67,618   13,600  12,667           20,607    90,100   62,755    150,075   120,273
Sheep/goats          10,000  22,482   24,500   42,300   32.235  50,538   56,200  33,054           31,913   116,500   87,771 6/ 106,951   169,208
Yaks/-hauriers             -    NA           -         -     NA          -       400    NA _/        233        400      NA          233       NA
%A
Horses/mules          2,500    NA            -    1,400      NA        348    2,500    NA            582      5,900      NA          930       NA
Poultry               6.000   8,323          -   16,000   38,541  12,611    6,000   6,232          8,532    28,000   53,099       21,143    60.630
Production
Milk ('000 lit.)        NA     5,768    6,341      NA      10,550  16,168       NA     4.042       4.484    23,363   20.360       26,993    33,973
Ghee (at)               NA        64 7/   328       NA        284      916      NA       156         273      1.342       504      1,517       NA
Source:  M $ E Unit, ROP 11 and Livestock Department.
1/ Appraisal estimates for 1978.
2/  Benchmark Sirvey estimates for 1983.
J/ Project estimates for 1986 - based on survey in Baitadi Oistrict and reporting from two other Oistricts.
4I  Estimates of Agricultural Narketing Services for 1987/88.
l/  Includes yak population in Darchula Oistrict.
/ Assumed that there was significant undercounting in Darchula District.
7/ Assumed possibility of reporting error.



- 46 -
able 12Z
Page I
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT - NAHAKALI HILLS {CR. 939-NEP}
Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants
Sect1in              Coqenant                   Cgonmiane                     Status
Date
3.02A    Borrower to employ a Rural Develop-          -       Complied
ment Specialist to work as Asst.
Project Coordinator
3.02B    Borrower to employ a Civil Engineer          -       Complied
3.02C    Borrower to employ a Soclo-Economist         -       Complied
3.020    Borrower to employ a Training and            -       Complied
Communications Officer
3.03B    Borrower to appoint a Full-Time              -       Complied
Project Coordinator
3.03C    Borrower to establish and maintain           -       Complied
a Zonal Coordinating Committer (ZCC)
3.07     Borrower to prepare annual develop-   09/15/80   Complied
ment plans by September 15 each
year beginning with 09/15/80
3.08     Borrower to ensure that 4 district           -       Complied
staff who go for foreign training
on return work two years
3.09     Borrower to collect water charges                    DIHN intended to apply national standard
for irrigation development under                    water rate of presently NRs6O per ha and
Part C(1) advise IDA by 6/30/84                     crop. However cadastral/statistical
information on beneficiaries was not
completed In time. Furthermore the four
schemes were completed too late to
initiate collection of water charges
prior to project closure.
3.10A    Borrower to prepare proposal by          12/31/80   Training programme originally submitted
12/31/80 for training and                           not satisfactory and MPLD was not able
carrying out studies                                to come up with a revised programme.
However, under the TA programme. a
number of training activities were
organized (para 3.43).
3.10B    Borrower to finalize/communicate         06/30/80   The Evangelical Hospital at Pokhara had
Its decision to IDA regarding                       been given another 9-year lease on the
Evangelical Hospital                                condition that meanwhile new facilities
would be constructed in the Dandeldhura
District HQ. Therefore no construction
was made under the project.



- 47 -
,table 12
Page 2
Sect1no              Covenant                    ComDiance                    Status
4.01C    Borrower to get its accounts                 -       The Audit Certificate for FY 79/80 to
audited and provide to IDA after                    FY 83/84 had been submitted in July
end 12 mos each FY                                  1986. but the separate SOE audit
- AIC (Project Accounts)                            opinions have not yet been prepared
- AOBN (Project Accounts)                           and would be very difficult to do. SOE
- Agencies of HKGN (Proj. Accts.)                   and audit report for FY 84/85 had been
- HMGN (SOES)                                       completed in August 1987. The SOE and
Audit report for FY 85/86 was sub-
mitted to IDA in October 1987. The
FY 86/87 SOE and audit report were
completed in August 1988. The SOE and
audit report for FY 87/88 have now
been completed, but not yet released.
Official release is expected in July/
August 1989.
5.O1A    Borrower to make arrangements            11/07179   Complied
and agreements with AIC, ADBN
and DOC
5.019    Employment of experts under Section   11/07/79   Complied
3.2 is condition of effectiveness
5.O1C    Borrower appointing the Project          11/07/79   Complied
Coordinator and Est. of ZCC is a
condition of effectiveness



- 48 -
Iable 13
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEP)
Cropning Pattern. Cronped Area
Without ProjIect                      W1ih Pro1St
Irrigated   Rainfed    Total        Irrigated   Ra1nfed   TIat,i
. .(. (ha)             .....        ....     .. (ha).
Uet Season
Upland paddy  (Local)               -         8,850       8.850          -         6,500      6.500
(Improved)           -           210        210          200          -          200
Lowland paddy (Local)              900        3.630       4.530          200       1.800      2,000
(Improved)         227           210        437        1,650       2,600       4,250
Maize          (Local)              -         9.470       9.470          -         8,800      8,800
(Improved)           -         3,310      3,310          -         4,900       4.900
Millet         (Local)              -         5,820       5,820          -         6,900      6.900
Dry Season
Wheat          (Local)             795        14,275    15,070           -        13,800    13,800
(Improved)         282         1,325      1,607        2,000       4,360       6.360
Barley                              -         4.440       4,440          -         2,300      2,300
Potato         (Local)              -          1.940      1,940          -         1,950       1,950
(improved)           50          -           50            50         -           50
Ollseeds                             -         1,420      1,420          -           990         990
Total cropped area                                        57,154                               59,000
Net cultivated area                                       45.380                               45.380
Cropping intensity (X)                                       126                                  130



- 49 -
Table 14
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEPI
Cron Yjelds
~~~~. . . . . .               . . . . . . ......PRa  . . . . . .
Without   ilth    Incrementai   Without   MM         tIncrental
Prolect  Pro1ec                   Prolect  Prolect
(tonslha)
Upland paddv
Local    - ra1nfed                    0.8      1.0         0.2          1.0       1.1         0.1
Improved - rainfed                    1.0      1.2         0.2          1.1        -           -
- fully Irrigated            -        1.4        1.4            -       1.6         1.6
LowlandLuad
Local    - rainfed                    1.2      1.5         0.3          1.2       1.3         0.1
- partially irrigated       1.3        -          -            -         -           -
- fully irrigated           1.5        -           -           1.4      1.6         0.2
Improved - ra1nfed                    1.3      1.7         0.4          1.4       1.6         0.2
- partially Irrigated       1.4       1.9        0.5            -        -           -
- fully Irrigated           1.6       2.0        0.4           1.8      2.0         0.2
HYV      - fully Irrigated             -       2.5         2.5           -         -           -
FlaIze
Local    - ralnfed                    1.0      1.2         0.2          1.1       i.?         0.1
improved - ralnfed                    1.1      1.5         0.4          1.3       1.5         0.2
Uhea
Local    - rainted                    0.8      1.0         0.2          1.0       1.2         0.2
- partially irrigated       0.9        -          -            -         -           -
- fully Irrigated           1.0        -           -           1.3       --
Improved - rainfed                    1.0      1.2         0.2          1.2       1.S         0.3
- partially irrigated       1.2       1.5        0.3            -        -           -
- fully Irrigated           1.4       1.7        0.3           1.5      1.7         0.2



- 50 -
Iable 15
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEP)
Crop Production
.    .    .    .    .    .  5AR ..    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .  FM  .    .    .    .    .    .
Future,  Future   Incremental   Future   Future  .Incremental
Without   With                   Without   With
Proiject  Project                Proiject  Project
.    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  ('000   tons)  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Paddy          19.34    28.09        8.25       15.40    16.55        1.15
Maize          18.90    23.91        5.01       14.72    17.91        3.19
Millet         10.71    13.77        3.06        4.65      6.90       2.25
Wheat          15.42    22.75        7.33       18.12    26.50        8.38
Barley          2.60      4.16       1.56        2.66      .07.ZL.QL
Total grain    67.47    92.68       25.21       55.55    69.93       14.38
Potato          4.90     6.55        1.65        0.71      0.69      -0.02
Oilseeds &      0.66      1.10       0.44        8.54      9.17       0.63
pulses



NEPAL
SECONO RURAL AEVELOPhENT PROJECT - NAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-HEP)
Crop Inputs Per Hectare
Yeldj       Seeds         j           P205        K20        COMBOS      Plant Protection    Animal Powe                Human Labou
5           2                        Chemicals                                   (man-days/ha)
(tons/ha)   (kg/ha)      (kg/ha)      (kglha)     (kg/ha)   (tons/ha)          (HRs/ha)         (Pair-days/ha)          Total        Hired
UDp1and Paddv
Local        rf   1.0  1.1    80   80    10   10    IS   IS    -    -    1.5  2.0                40        40         40     40         120   122    55    56
Improved    rf   1.I    -       80   -       IS   -      20   -                  2.0   -         40       -          40      -          121    -      56    -
ir    -   1.6    -    70    -    30    25   30    -           5    -   3.5          -        50         -       40         -    125    -       58
Lowland Padd
Local        rf   1.2  1.3    80   80    25   40    30   30    10   10   2.0  2.5                40       40          40     40         100   105    50    52
Ir   1.4  1.6    70   60    30   50    40   50    10   10   3.0  3.5                40       40         40      40        1OS   110    52    54
Improved    rf   1.4  1.6    70   60    35   45    30   40    10   10   3.5  4.0                 40       50         40      40         105   115    52    56
ir   1.8  2.0    60  50        40   80    60 100        10  10   4.0  S.0           60       80         40      40        117   125    57    62
aize
Local        rf   1.1  1.2    25   25    20   20    I0   10    -    -    2.0  3.0                SO       60          30      30         80    81    30    32           1
Improved    rf   1.3  1.5    20   20    20   30    10   10    -    -    3.0  3.5                 60       70         30      30          81    84    32    35           1
Millet
Local        rf   0.8  1.0    20   20    -    -          -    -       -    -    1.0  1.0         -         -          20      20         36    38    10    11
What
Local        rf   1.0  1.2   100  100    30   35    40   40    10   10   1.0  1.0               100       120         32      32         9S    98    40    42
ir   1.3   -      90   -       40   -      45   -       10   -    2.0   -          140       -          35      -         100    -      42    -
Improved    rf   1.2  1.5    90   80    40   50    45   45    10   10   2.0  2.5                160      160          35     35          98   100    40    45
ir   1.S  1.7    90   80    50   60    SS   55    15   IS   3.5  3.5               160      160         35      35        100   105    45    47
Barle.
Local        rt   0.6  0.9    80   70    -    -          -    -      -    -    1.5  1.S          40       40          20     20          60    64    25    28
Potato
Local        rf   4.4  4.7   541  540    30   35    35   40    10   10   4.0  5.0               440      460          32     32          9S    98    40    44
Improved     ir   4.6  5.4   540  540    30   40    50   60    10   15   4.0  5.5               480      SOO         35      35          97   105    42    48
Oilseeds I/ 
Local        rf   0.5  0.7      10   10    -    -        -    -      -    -    0.5  0.5          30        30         20     20          70    72    30    32         cr-
fDI
V = Future without project;  W - Future with project;  rf = rainfed;  ir = irrigated.                                                                                   _
I/  Includes pulses. vegetables. etc.



- 52 -
Table 17
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEPI
Farm-Gate Price of Inputs and Outputs
InoutSi                                  Outout                  NRs/kg
1. Seeds (kg)
Paddy    - Local variety        4.37     Paddy    - Local variety         4.54
- Improved  "         5.40               - Improved  "          4.00
Maize    - Local variety        4.00     Maize    - Local variety         3.61
- Improved  "         6.06               - Improved  n          3.63
Millet   - Local      "         2.50     Millet   - Local                 2.78
Wheat    - Local variety        5.00     Wheat    - Local variety         5.21
- Improved  n         7.00               - Improved  "          4.40
Potato   - Local variety        5.00     Potato   - Local variety         4.80
- Improved  "         5.00               - Improved  "          4.50
Barley   - Local variety        3.00     Barley   - Local variety         3.30
Oilseeds - Local variety       10.00     Oilseeds - Local variety        10.00
2. Fertilizers. (kg)
N                               8.70
P 0                             8.33
K 0                             3.33
Composts                        0.20
3. Hired labour (man-day)         20
4. Draft animal (pair-day)        20



NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MA8AKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEPI
Food Balance in the Proiect Areas
Population       Total Edible Foodqrains           Total Food Requirements          Balance
Per Capita                       Per Caoita          (tons)
Consumption                     Requirements
(tons)         (kg)             (tons)           (kg)
Base Year 11975/76-1979/80)
Darchula                           81,228           5,392.2          66             11,440.0         141              -6,047.8
Baitadi                           177,002          10,497.4          59            21,149.5          119             -10,652.1
Dandeldhura                        68.38           11.315.2         165             11.803.2          173               -488.0
Total                             326,618          27.204.8          83            44.392.7          136             -17.187.9
=======~~~ =                          = ======            == === .... == .======
Prolect Period (1985/861
Darchula                          103,259          13.538.0         131             13.538.0          131
Baitadi                           211,343           9,237.0          44            23.385.0          111             -14,148.0
Dandeldhura                        83.157          14.090 0         169             16.585.0         199              -2.4950
Total                             397,759          36,865.0          93            53,508.0          135             -16.643.0
Source: Department of Foods and Agricultural Marketing Services.
.00



55 -                          ANNEX 1    1
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEPI
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1.       At appraisal the economic rates of return (ERR) had been calculated
for the components of agricultural development, irrigation, livestock, and
the whole project which included in addition to the above components the
benefits and costs of the horticulture development. The ERRs, calculated
over a period of 20 years, had been estimated at 50% for agricultural
development, 12% for irrigation, 15% for livestock, and 21% for the whole
project.
2.        Due  to  lack of agronomic data resulting from the poor performance
of the MEU, and the absence of impact study, no attempt has been made to re-
estimate the ERRs for the livestock and horticulture components and the
whole project. However, based on a modest crop survey which was carried out
by MEU in 1988, district crop production statist.cs and assumptions made by
the mission, the ERR for the agricultural development component including
impacts from minor and major irrigation developments has been calculated.
The ERR has been undertaken in 1989 constant prices. Past expenditures  were
brought  to  1989 constant prices by using the GDP's deflator indices. Local
costs and all the non-traded goods and services were adjusted into border
prices  by  using  the  standard  conversion  factor (SCF) of 0.90. Specific
conversion factors (CFs) of 0.75, 0.90 and 0.67 for  building,  civil  works
and unskilled labour were also used in the analysis.
3.        The  relevant  capital and recurrent costs included in the analysis
as shown in Table 1 are the agricultural development for the department of
agriculture, input distribution for the agricultural input corporation,
cooperative development, agricultural development bank, minor and major
irrigation   development,   service   centre  buildings  (50%)  and  project
coordinator's  office  (25%).  The  operation  and  maintenance  costs   are
estimated at NRslO0 and NRs500 per ha for minor and major irrigation
respectively, adjusted by a CF of 0.90.
4.        The         ted areas, crop production and benefits and costs in the
future without ,   , and with project (WP) situations are shown in Tables 2-
5. The increase in the cultivated areas in WOP and WP was due to HMGN's
agricultural and irrigation development programmes which were carried out
simultaneously in the project areas. Because there was little or no project
activity on agricultural extension, input distribution and credit provision
during 1979/80-1981/82, it has been assumed that the cropped areas and
production in WP were the same as in WOP during these periods. Full
production  in  WOP  and  WP  has  been  assumed  in  1987/88  and   1992/93
respectively. The latter would allow for build-up of benefits from irrigated
areas. The additional irrioated areas resulting from completion of millor and
major schemes are estimated at 673 ha and 250 ha respectively.
5.       Prices  of traded outputs and inputs are based on 1995 world market
prices in 1989 constant value as shown in Table 6. Prices of non-traded
goods and services are based on 1989 financial prices, adjusted by a SCF of
0.90. A summary of economic prices of outputs and inputs is presented in
Table 7.



- 56 -                          ANNEX 1    2
6.        Table  8  presents  economic  cost  and  benpfit  streams  of   the
agricultural development component. The ERR, calculated over 20 years, is
estimated at 46%. The high ERR is attributable to the modest cost of the
extension services and input (improved seed), and the relatively high
incremental yields (15%) resulting from the adoption  of  improved  cultural
practices and improved crop varieties. However, due to excessive delay in
construction and cost overrun the ERR of the irrigation development
component would be negative. Similarly, the ERR for the whole project is
expected to be lower than the appraisal estimate of 21% as a result of the
poor performance of the irrigation development and lower achievements in the
development of the vegetable cultivation (para 5.9) and the upgrading of the
quality of livestock (para 3.30).



NEPAL: SECOND RURAL DEVELOP"ENT PROJECT - NAHAKALI HILLS ICR. 939-NEPI
Economic Costs for Agricultural Develooment Comoonent 1J/
FX 79/8     FY 80/81    FY 81182    FY 82/83    FY 83/84    FY 84185    FY 85/86    FY 86/87    FY 87/88          Estimates
(Year 1)    (Year 2)    (Year 3)    (Year 4)    (Year 5)    (Year 6)    (Year 7)    (Year 8)    (Year 9)    (Years 10-20)
.................................................. (NRs million)..................................................
Aaricultural Development
Building 2/                         -            -           -         0.45         0.23        0.19         0.04        0.12         0.01            -
Other costs _1 41                   -                      1 .2!8       2.92       3.33 212                  2.76        3.04         3.50          3.50
Sub-Total                           -          0.61        2.28         3.37        3.61        3.41         2.80        3.16         3.51          3.50
AIC Buildina                          -            -           -            -         2.15        O.SO           -            -           -
Cooperative
Building 21                         -            -           -         0.60         0.13        0.02         0.20          -            -             -
Other costs I/                      -          0.11        0.49         00.3                                 0.03        0.3 /       0.03          0.03
Sub-Total                           -          0.11        0.49         0.70        0.21        0.1S         0.23        0.03         0.03          0.03
AMb
Building It                         -            -                 -            -           -                0.46          -            -             -
Administration _/1 _1               -            -           - 11         -I        O                         .02        0.01         0.01 6        QsQl
Sub-Total                           -            -           -            -         0.01        0.02         0.48        0.01         0.01          0.01
Service Centre Buildina  .2/        0.15           -           -          0.54        1.68         3.41        0.51        0.74         0.13             -            &
PCO MOl
Building  1                       0.08           -           -         0.06         0.27        0.20         0.08        0.08         0.06            -
Administration L/ 1I/            L            0.60        0.40         0.52        0.31         02 0.27                 0.27         9-n             - 91
Sub-Total                         0.13        0.60         0.40        0.58         0.58        0.48         0.35        0.35         0.21            -
Minor Irrigation 12/                  -          0.95        0.56         0.72        0.19         1.26        0.16        0.30         2.77          0.06 131
Major Irrigation .12/                -  1.1                     8         2.19        622         6.61         4.38        4.21         101           09 
Total                             0.28         1.92        4.91        8.10        14.65        15.84        8.91        8.80         7.67          3.69
_/  Actual expenditures have been converted to 1989 constant prices by using the following 60P's deflator indices during FY 79/80-FY 88/89: 2.12. 1.91.
1.79. 1.63. 1.51. 1.44, 1.28. 1.16, 1.07 and 1.00.
2/  Financial costs adjusted by CF of 0.75.
_1  Assuming 101 FEC and 901 LC x SCF of 0.90.
4/  Including costs for extension, training and administration for DOA and AIC.
S/  Estimated at 2.51 of total crop production credits.
6/  Assuming to maintain the same activities.
.Z/ Insignificant.
Q/  PCO was demolished in FY 88189.
2l  Assuming 50  of service centre building costs.
1_1 Assuming 251 of PCO costs.                                                                                                                                   cr z
II/ Assuming 20X FEC and 80X LC.                                                                                                                                    m
12/ Financial costs x CF of 0.90.                                                                                                                                !II
31/ Estimated CIM cost at NRs100 per ha. adjusted by CF of 0.90.
MJ1 Estimated O&M cost at NRsSOO per ha, adjusted by CF of 0.90.



NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-HEPM
Cropned Area
(ha)
Future Without Prolect  . . . . .               . . . . . . . .   Future With Prolect  . . . . .  . . .
Year I 1/   Year 3       Year 4       Years 9-20          Year I 1/   Year 3       Year 4      Year 9         Years 14-2
(79/80)                              (87/88-98199)        (79180)                              (87188)      (92193-981991
Wet Season
Upland Paddv
Local (rainfed)              6,820        7.328       7,580          8,850              6,820        7,328       7.160       6,500           6.500
Improved (rainted)             160          173         179            210                160          173         149          55              -
Improved (irrigated)            -            -           -               -                 -            -           25         126             200
Lowland Paddv
Local (rainted)              2,800        3,010       3.215          3,630              2.800        3,010       2,770       1.800           1,800
Local (irrigated)              000          825         840             900               800          825         774         415             200
Improved (rainfed)             160          173         179            210                160          173         658       2,600           2,600
Improved (irrigated)           220          222         223            227                220          222         404       1,130           1,650
k-n
Maize
Local (rainfed)              7,300        7,571       7,845          9,470              7,300        7,571       7.817       8,800           8,800                 I
Improved (ralnfed)           2.550        2,740       2.835          3.310              2,550        2,740       3,172      4,900            4,900
Millet (rainfed)             4,490        4,820       4,990          5,820              4.490        4.820       5,236       6.900           6.900
Dry Season
Wheat
Local (rainfed)              8,840       10,400      11,175         15,070              8,840       10,400      11,080      13,800          13.800
Local (irrigated)              710          730         740             795               710          730         635         255               -
Improved (rainfed)             820          945       1.010          1.325                820          945       1.628       4.360           4,360
Improved (Irrigated)           250          258         262            282                250          258         479       1,364           2.000
8arlev                       2.750        3,170       3,380          4,440              2,750        3,170       2,996       2,300           2.300
Potato
Local (rainfed)              1.200        1,385       1.480           1,940             1,200        1.385       1,498       1,950           1,95G
Improved (Irrigated)            SO           SO          50             so                 50           50          50          s0              50
Oilseeds                       880         1.015      1,080           1,420               880        1.015       1,010         990              990          cr z
I/ Average cropped area 76/77-79180, Department ot Agriculture. Statistics Oivision.



NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEPM
Production
(tons)
.  . . . . Future Without Proiect    .  .   .       .         . . . . . . .  . Future With Prolect         .  .   .   .
Year I1/   Y      3       ae    9-2                      Year  I I    Ya          Year 4      Year 9        Years 14-20
(79/80)                             (87/88-98/99)        (79/80)                              (87/83)      (92/93-98/99)
Wet Season
Uoland Paddv (Total)        11,872       12,927     13,463         15.400             11,872      12,927      14.779      16.837          16,550
Local (rainfed)             6,820         7,328      7,580          8.850             6,820        7,328       7,876       7,150           7,150
Improved (rainfed)             176          190        197            231               176          190         164          61              -
Improved (irrigated)            -            -          -              -                  -           -           40         202             320
Lowland Paddy
Local (rainfed)              3,360        3.612      3.858          4,356             3,360        3,612       3,600       2,340           2,340
Local (irrigated)            1,120        1,155      1,176          1,260              1,120       1,155       1,238         664             320
Improved (rainfed)             224          242        251            294               224          242       1.053       4,160           4,160
Improved (irrigated)           396          400        401            409               396          400         808       2.260           2,260                un
Maize (Total)               11.345       11,890     12,316         14,720             11,345      11,890      14,138      17,910          17,910
Local (rainfed)             8,030        8.328       8,630         10,417             8.030        8,328       9.380      10,560          10,560
Improved (rainfed)          3,315        3.562       3.686          4,303             3.315        3,562       4.758       7,350           7.350
Millet (rainfed)             3,590        3.856      3,992          4,653             3,590        3.856       5.236       6,900           6,900
Dry Season
Wheat (Total)               11,122       12,870     13.742         18,117             11,122      12,870      14,122      25,751          26,500
Local (rainfed)              8,840       10,400     11.175         15,070             8,840       10,400      13,296      16,560          16,560
Local (irrigated)              923          949        962          1.034                923         949         826         332              -
Improved (ralnted)            984         1,134      1,212          1,590               984        1,134       2,442       6,540           6,540
Improved (irrigated)           375          387        393            423               375          387         814       2,319           3,400
8arlev                       1,650        1,902      2.07a          2.664             1,650        1,902       2,696       2,070           2,070
Potato (Total)              5,510         6.324      6,742          8,766             5,510        6,324       7,311       9,435           9,435
Local (rainfed)              5,200       6.094       6,512          8,536             5,280        6,094       7,041       9,165           9,165           b  z
Improved (irrigated)           230          230        230            230               230          230         270         270             270           cr m
Ollseeds                       440          508        540            710                440         508         707         693             693           w_



NEPAL
SECONO RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT - NAHAKALI HILLS {CR. 939-HEPI
Economic Production Benefit
(MRs million)
. . . . . Future Without Proiect  . . . . .               . . . . . . . . .  titu ith Prolect  . . . . . . . . 
Year t   1/   Year 3      Year4        ears 9-20          Year I j/   Year a       Year 4      Year           ears 14-20
(79/80)                             (87/88-98/99)         (79/80)                              (87/88)      (92/93-98/99)
Pad4w                        37.51        40.85       42.54          48.66              37.51        40.85       46.70       53.20           52.30
Nalze                        14.75        15.46       16.01          19.14              14.75        15.46       18.38       23.28           23.28
Millet (rainfed)              8.98         9.64        9.98          11.63               8.98         9.64       13.09       17.25           17.25                 0
Uheat                        35.81        41.44       44.25          58.34              35.81        41.44       45.47       82.92           85.33
Barle                         4.^1         5.65        6.02           7.91               4.90         5.65        8.01        6.15            6.15
Potato                       23.14        26.56       28.32          36.82              23.14        26.56       30.71       39.63           39.63
Ollseeds                      3.94         4.57        4.86           6.39               3.96         4.57        6.36        6.24            6.24
TOTAL                   129.05       144.17       51.9[         188.89            129.0        144.17      168.72      228.67           230.18
IHCREMENTAL                                                                           -            -        16.74       39.7             41.2
-I as'z
cr z
0 m
ID X



SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MANAKALI HILLS (Cl. 939-hEPI
Economic Production Cost
(IRS million)
. . . . . Foture Without Prolect  . . . . .              . . . . . . . . . Future With Prolect  . . . .
Year I 11   Year       Year 4        ears 9-2           Year I .11   Year 3      Year        Year 9a         Yrs i4-20
(79180)                             (87188-981/W)        (79180)                             (87188)      (92193-98/99)
Wet Seasgn
Upland Padd  (Total)         38.33       40.99       47.20          48.90             38.33        40.99       45.74      S.96            54.45
Local (rainted)             21.40        24.08       24.91          29.08             22.40        24.08       24.36       22.12           22.12
Improved (rainted)           0.58         0.62        0.64           0.76              O.S8         0.62        0.54       0.20               -
Improved (irrigated)            -            -          -              -                 -            -         0.11       0.55             0.87
Lowland Paddy
Local (rainted)              10.29       11.06       11.82          13.34             10.29        11.06       11.29        7.34            7.34
Locai (irrigated)             3.30        3.40        3.47           3.71              3.30         3.40        3.66        1.96            0.95
Improved (ralnted)           0.67         0.73        0.75           0.88              0.67         0.73        3.15       12.45           12.45
Improved (irrigated)          1.09        1.10        1.11           1.13              1.09         1.10        2.63        7.34           10.72
Mlaz  (Total)               26.78       28.03       29.04          34.74             26.78        28.03       30.51       38.16           38.16
Local (rainted)              19.79       20.52       21.27          2S.61             19.79        20.52       21.37       24.05           24.05
Improved (rainted)           6.99         7.S        7.77           9.07              6.99         7.51        9.14       14.11           14.11
fijIej  (rainted)             4.82         5.17       4.82           6.24              4.82         5.17        5.76        1.58            1.58
Dry Season
Mieat (Total)                40.02        46.38      49.55          65.45             40.02        46.38       54.51       80.31           82.38
local (rainted)              32.27       37.97       40.60          55.02             32.27        37.97       41.99       52.30           52.30
Local (Irrigated)             2.98         3.06       3.10           3.33              2.98         3.06        2.66        1.01
Improved (rainted)           3.53         4.07        4.3S           5.70              3.53         4.07        7.39       19.78           19.78
Improved (irrigated)          1.24         1.28       1.30           1.40              1.24         1.28        2.47        7.02           10.30
Barle                         4.70         5.41       5.77           7.58              4.70         5.41        S.39        3.98            3.98
Potat  (Total)                8.17         9.38      10.00          13.00              8.17         9.38       10.7s       13.88           13.08
tocdi (rainted)               7.83         9.04       9.66          12.66               7.83        9.04       10.31       13.50           13.50
Improved (irrigated)         0.34         0.34        0.34           0.34              0.34         0.34        0.38        0.38            0.38
Oilseeds                      1.32         1.53        1.63          2.14               1.32        I.53        I.5S        1.52            1.2
IOTAL                  124.14       136.89      148.0 f1U.                       124.1 hL                 154.01     19.25           201.94            n
INCREKNTh U                                                                                                           I".0   9;       23.9



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS (CR. 939-NEP)
Summarv of Economic Prices of Outguts and Inputs
Economic
(1995)
Outputs (NRsIkg)
Paddy                                             3.16
Wheat                                              3.22
Maize                                              1.30
Millet                                             2.50 1/
Oilseed                                           .9.00 1/
Potato                                            4.20 1/
Barley                                             2.97 1/
Inputs (NRs/kg)
Seeds 2/ - Paddy   - Local                         3.23
- Improved                    4.00
- Wheat   - Local                        3.35
- Improved                    4.69
- Maize   - Local                        1.44
- Improved                    2.18
- Millet                                 2.50
- Oilseed                                9.00
- Potato                                 4.52
- Barley                                 2.97
Manure                                             0.18 1/
N                                                 16.18
p                                                 15.43
K                                                  9.44
Unskilled labour (NRs/day)                        13.40
Draft animals (NRs/day/pair)                      18.00 1/
.1/ Non-traded goods were adjusted by !-F of 0.90.
2/ Based on the ratio of the financial prices of
outputs and seeds.



NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NAHAXALI HILLS ICR. 939-NEP)
Economic Prices' Derivation
(Projected 1995 in 1989 Constant Currency Value)
Padd         WheaM aize                           I               _
World Market Price (USS/ton)  1/                        293 2/        187 4/        109.1 5/          179.4 /         163.0 1/         95.7 8J
Quality Adjustment (%)                                   85            95            95                100             100             100
World Market Equivalent of Nepalese Product             249.1         177.7         103.7             179.4            163.0            95.7
Freight and Insurance                                      -            -             -                54.0            69.0            69.0
c.i.f./f.o.b. Calcutta (USS/ton)                        249.1         177.7         103.7             233.4           232.0            164.;?
(NRs/ton) 31                 6,475.3       4,620.2       2.696.2           6,068.4         6,032.0         4,282.2
Transport to/from Calcutta                            1,352.0       1,352.0       1,352.0           1,352.0         1,352.0         1,352.0
Processing as Nutrient Ratio (X)                         65           100           100                46              48              60
Processing Cost less By-Product Value                   130             -             -                  -               -
Wholesale Price                                       3,200.2       3,268.2       1,344.2          16,131.3        15,383.3         9,390.3
Transport to/from Farm                                    45.0         45.0          45.3              45.0             45.0            45.0
Economic Farm-Gate Price                              3,155.2       3,223.2       1,299.2          16,176.3        15,428.3         9,435.3
1/  World Bank's Commodity Price Forecast, October 1988.
2/ Thai milled rice 5 broken, f.o.b. Bangkok.
3l At an exchange rate of USS1 = NRs26.
_/  Canadian No. 1, Western Red Spring. f.o.b. St. Lawrence.
_/ U.S. No. 2. yellow, f.o.b. Gulf Port.
6/ Bagged f.o.b. N.W. Europe.
7/ Triple Superphosphate, Bulk, f.o.b. U.S. Gulf.
8/ Potassium Cloride, Bulk, f.o.b. Vancouver.
a' z
c- M
-4 Ix
01 -Z



- 64 -
ANNEX I
Table 8
NEPAL
SECONQ RURAL, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS ICR. 939-NEPI
Economic Costs and Benefit Streams for Aaricultural Develooment
(NRs million)
Year            Capital & Recurrent        Incremental              Incremental            Balance
Costs           Production Costs Z/   Production Benefits V
1 (79/80)                   0.28                                             -                  (0.28)
2                           1.92                                              -                 (1.92)
3                           4.91                     -                        -                 (4.91)
4                           8.10                    6.00                   16.74                 2.64
5                          14.65                    8.64                   21.35                (1.94)
6                          15.84                   11.28                   25.96                (1.16)
7                           8.91                  13.92                    30.56                 7.73
8                           8.80                   16.56                   35.17                 9.81
9 (87/88)                   7.67                   19.20                   39.78                12.91
10 (88/89)                  3.54                  20.14                    40.08                16.40
11                          3.69 .1/              21.08                    40.38                15.61
12                          3.70                  22.02                    40.69                14.97
13                          3.71                  22.96                    40.99                14.32
14-20 (92/93-98/99)            3.71                   23.90                    41.29               13.68
ERR  -  46X
I/ Estimated recurrent costs and 019 costs for minor and major irrigation.
21 Linear Increases.



IBRD 1419OR
60~~~15-  ~8so0'                               8045'                        a 80'w               W15                         w3a 8yt-                                         o     X
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  /$/>
MAHAKALI HILLS                                    XAt                                                                                                                     s      '".
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                              iV/                                          IMPROVEMENTS TO COMMUNICATIONS                                       
30-00'        A^ DETAILED SURvEY COMPLETED                     -'                                        -         -_ PROPOSED TRAIL IMPROVEMENT,,
3CsX' L ~~~~~~RECONNAISSANCE                                             ,                                          PROPOSED SUSPENSION BRIDGES                                                                  30-X0'-
/'/   ,             /                   @  ~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAVELLERS REST HOUSES*                                              ,
2>> # , $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                       - -  EXISTING   TRAILS   f6 
t;        ~~~~~D  A  R C  H  U L A.                                                                 .,pu  -'_       D A0  R C  H U L A- 
1jiRCHULA                                                                                                                                    P-!,J)  <'     \ *t\
-29445   \  .}+     (                 /                       -'-> j                   \        }~~~~~~~~~~~~r'  v  ''  .   A-           '      g                         A~~~tAC
29s3'4/5BA| TADIS;.'^                                                                                                                                                                                                29'33-
93   r   ~   >_  ..................... 1 > ...........  *x~ f- ? ~97kh '
\v  '   I Ll&ton2   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t    \ t C                                                         b~~~~~~~~~~D
-29-30'           *2 o                             DLHIA A DS I
t   D A  N  D E L D H U R A A  z   ---D:STR:CT SOUNDARIES   6   (  D: A ND Ey L j&H U,L R A j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f t    t  (   m -  rv  /   rW30'
,0(   P._--OEEUDRISt.F                                                                       ,-    , ,,   ~t                         ,l>iIlN /  neXi5 i2  3UA
t vo.   Wx  r             --NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    ll    r   g   (       x ~~~~~~~~t      e  t -^     ~     ~          I r        a                 tr
-29.X K~~~~~~~~~ A   N   D  E L D  H U R                 ;            r5i ,  ''A  N  DSRCT HEADQ UARTRS                              C,  H. UR                                                             CHIZtNKA
@>!3       8_                                                       EPOT                8v^'15'    [ ,,-/    /        f                         EE'45'                               JEBRUMY.-ISTRCT  IS9DAIES  1    I



