Document of
The World Bank
Report No. P-2579-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS
June 7, 1979
This r4post may not he published nor may it be quoted as. representing the views of the World Bank.
The Wor-ld Bank does not accept respoosibility for the accurapy or complieteness of the repo'rtff



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00             NRs 12.00
NR 1.00      =      US$0.08
NRs 100      =      US$8.33
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                     =   2.20 pounds
1 quintal             = 100 kg      =   220 pounds
I metric ton         = 1,000 kg    =   0.98 long ton
1 millimeter                        =   0.039 inch
1 meter (m)           = 3.29 feet   =   1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                2   =   0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)  3    = 10,000 m    =   2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m )                       35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                         =   0.26 US gallon
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN      -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
BVNCC     -   Back to the Village National Campaign Committee
CCC       -   Panchayat Development Central Coordination Committee
DAP       -   District Administrative Plan
DA        -   Department of Agriculture
DCVI      -   Department of Cottage and Village Industries
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
LDD       -   Local Development Department, Ministry of Home Panchayat
MFAI      -   Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
MOHP      -   Ministry of Rome Panchayat
PCC       -   Project Coordinating Committee
ZCC       -   Zonal Coordinating Committee
STAFF ABBREVIATIONS
CDO       -   Chief District Officer
CPC       -   Central Project Coordinator
PC        -   Project Coordinator



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAHAKALI HILLS
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              US$11.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    Agricultural credit funds of about US$350,000 equiva-
lent would be made available to the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Nepal (ADBN) at 6% per annum for short-term
and 4% per annum for medium-term loans. ADBN would
on-lend to cooperatives at 10% and 8% per annum respec-
tively, which would in turn lend to farmers at 14% and
11% per annum respectively.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would help develop the three Hill
districts of Dandeldhura, Baitadi, and Darchula and
aims to raise agricultural production to levels whereby
farmers could meet full family subsistence. The proposed
project would provide for increased agricultural and live-
stock production through minor irrigation development,
strengthening of agricultural extension and animal health
services, training, and improved availability of farm in-
puts. These directly productive investments would be com-
plemented by investments in erosion control, health care,
village water supplies, lower and upper secondary educa-
tion, postal services, panchayat facilities, and trails
and foot-bridges. The project also provides for a study
of cottage industry potential and prospects, as well as for
facilities and staff required for project implementation.
At full development, the project would raise food levels
to about 330 days at average subsistence levels, compared
to present food levels of about 260 days, for the 53,300
families residing in project districts. In view of the
remoteness of the project area, the project faces a risk
that government staff may not be willing to live and work
in project areas. The project, however, is designed to
minimize this risk by providing accommodation, project
allowances and social amenities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                                          US$ Million Equivalent
of Project: 1/      Component                        Local   Foreign   Total
I. Agriculture
Agriculture Extension             0.88      0.08      0.96
Credit & Input Supply             0.44      0.42      0.86
Horticulture                      0.06        -       0.06
Livestock                         0.49      0.12      0.61
Irrigation                        1.00      0.11      1.11
Subtotal                   2.87      0.73      3.60
II. Social Infrastructure
Water Supply                    0.09      0.01      0.10
Health Services                 1.27      0.18      1.45
Education                       0.15      0.03      0.18
Panchayat Development           0.17      0.02      0.19
Postal Service,                 0.04      0.01      0.05
Trails and Bridges              0.91      0.25      1.16
Erosion Control                 0.36      0.11      0.47
Cottage Industry                0.26      0.06      0.32
Subtotal                 3.25      0.67      3.92
III.  Project Administration             1.01      1.52     2.53
Total                 7.13      2.92    10.05
IV. Contingencies
Physical                          0.40      0.20      0.60
Price                             1.90      0.90      2.80
Subtotal                 2.30      1.10      3.40
Total Project Cost              9.43      4.02    13.45
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                    8.0       3.0       11.0
Government                              1.4         -        1.4
UNDP                                   0.1        1.0        1.1
Total                                9.5       4.0       13.5
1/   Includes a negligible amount of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated IDA                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:       IDA FY        1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985   1986
Annual        0.02  0.54  1.68  2.30  2.70  2.45   1.31
Cumulative   0.02  0.56  2.24  4.54  7.24  9.69  11.00
Rate of Return:      21%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2401-]NEP dated May 31, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
lO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT - MAHAKALI HILLS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the equivalent of US$11.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Second Rural Development
Project - Mahakali Hills. The UNDP is expected to provide about US$1.1
million equivalent for the technical assistance requirements of the project.
About 3.0% oE the total project cost (US$350,000 equivalent) will be on-
lent to the Agricultural DeveLopment Bank of Nepal (see para 50).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 1873a--NEP) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on March 21, 1978. The principal findings of the Memorandum are described
below. Country data are shown in Annex I. An economic mission is visiting
Nepal (May/June 1979) and will prepare an economic memorandum for the Aid
Group Meeting scheduled for January 1980.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita incone in 1977 was estimated at $120, and health and education
standards are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is less than. 44 years, infant mortality exceeds 200 per thousand, and adult
literacy is only 19%. Population in mid-1976 was 12.9 million, of which over
90% lived in, rural areas. Both birth and death rates are high, keeping popu-
lation growth at 2.1% a year.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
65% of GDP and almost 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the small industrial
sector, which comprises about 4% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials.
However, about 25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-
agricultural activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important
of these, estimated to engage over 1 million people and comprise about 7% of
GDP. They provide basic consumer goods in the many small, isolated markets
where such goods would otherwise not be available.
1/ Part I of this Report is substantially the same as Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
proposed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage II Project (Report No. P-2385-NEP of September 25, 1978).



- 2 -
5.        As a small open economy with virtually free trading links with India,
Nepal's economy is highly susceptible to developments in India. The Terai,
which lies along the Indian border, has close trading links with India, and
accounts for about 60 percent of the country's GDP, and about 40 percent of
the population. The Kathmandu Valley, the administrative and commercial
center, is closely linked with the Terai, but at significant transportation
costs. The rest of the country, the hills and mountains, is almost inaccessi-
ble economically, and consists of a large number of fragmented markets.
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic and
administrative infrastructure. Under these circumstances, initial develop-
ment efforts necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation for future
development. It was inevitable that, during these early stages, growth would
remain slow and that, as a result, there would be little if any increase in
per capita income. However, four successive development plans passed with
little shift in emphasis or improvement in per capita incomes and living
standards. The Fifth Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) was to become the turning
point; emphasis was to shift away from heavy infrastructure towards quicker-
yielding investments in directly productive activities, and towards the
provision of social services. Investment in primary infrastructure would be
highly selective, and kept in line with the country's near-term ability to
exploit it. Infrastructure directly supporting other development activities
would continue to receive priority.
7.        To some extent the objectives of the Fifth Plan are being achieved;
and investment has begun to be reoriented. However, GDP growth has been well
below the 4-5% annual growth rate envisioned in the Plan, mainly because of
poor agricultural performance. Following two years of stagnant performance,
Nepal's economy has showed some improvements during the current fiscal year.
An improved harvest due to favorable weather conditions is likely to boost
agricultural production by 3 to 4 percent compared with the declining output
during the two previous years. The growth in agricultural output together
with the continued growth in other sectors of the economy, especially tourism,
is likely to lead to a growth of 4 to 5 percent in overall real GDP in 1978/79.
However, continued shortages of certain essential construction materials such
as cement and iron bars, as well as shortages of electricity, have proved to
be limiting factors in the growth of much of the nonagricultural sector.
8.        So far overall balance of payments developments have not been a
policy constraint for the authorities, and foreign exchange reserves in July
1978 were equivalent of about 8 months of imports. There has, however, been
a large and increasing trade deficit. Imports have been growing under the
impetus of the Government's development programs, while exports, principally
rice (almost 50% of total exports) and jute (about 15%), declined. The trade
deficits have been largely offset by increased earnings from tourism and
remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal serving in the British or Indian
army). Tourism earnings accounted for 22% of total convertible foreign exchange
earnings in 1976/77. However, despite increasing receipts from tourism and
remittances from abroad, improvement in the trade balance remains critically
important. Imports, particularly development goods and raw materials, are



- 3 -
bound to rise steadily; however, medium term prospects for exports are not
promising. Prospects for rice, the largest export, are not favorable due to
declining surpluses at home and a comfortable supply situation in India.
9. On Marc'h 31, 1978, the authorities implemented a major reform of the ex-
change and trade system applying to transactions with third countries. This
involved the replacement of a complex system of multiple exchange rates and
exchange and trade restrictions by a dual exchange system and liberalization.
Transactions with India, whichn are virtually free from restrictions, were
unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and transit with India
were also concluded in March 1978.
10.        The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
poor growth of agricultural production which is failing to keep pace with
population growth.  Over the period 1967-77, cereals production grew at an
average annual rate of only 1.8% against an annual increase in population of
2.1%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of this
increase; average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Malnutrition is acute
in the Hills, which contain only one-third of the country's agricultural land,
yet close to two-thirds of the population. Population density on agricultural
land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh, under even less favorable
natural conclitions. Cultivation has been pushed up steep hillsides and onto
marginal latnd, and average yields have actually declined. Food availability
for the average family has dropped to less than the equivalent of 225 days
minimum subsistence needs a year. Because they have little to trade except
their labor,, one-third of thet inhabitants of these areas migrate seasonally
to the Terai plains and northern India for food and work.  Since the mid-
sixties, an estimated 400,000 have migrated permanently; there are signs that
this exodus is accelerating. Family planning services which could help miti-
gate this crisis are weak. Although such services are available in most of
the larger towns, they are only just beginning to be extended into outlying
rural areas. These efforts are being hampered by the inaccessibility of most
of the population; mounting a program on the scale needed will require much
more manpower and funds.
11.        W'hile the average-sized farm in the Terai is only 1.7 ha, it is
still four times as large as that in the Hills. The small surpluses produced
by the Terai farmers have been the basis for Nepal's rice exports. However,
these exports have been steadily declining, from about half a million tons in
the early sixties to only about 100,000 tons in 1977/78. This has been the
result of production lagging behind population growth and, more recently, the
relative decline in export prices resulting from good crops in India in
combination with poor harvests at home.
12.        Agriculture thus has the highest development priority in Nepal, not
only because of its central economic role, but also because of the pressing
need for fcod in the Hills. However, only the Terai presents opportunities
for establishing market-oriented farming in the near future; agricultural
development in the Hills will have to concentrate on meeting subsistence
needs. The focus of agricultural development efforts in the Terai has been
on major surface irrigation schemes to increase cropping intensity.  However,
inadequate attention in the past to bringing development down to the farm



level has resulted in the full benefits not being realized. The inadequate
support services--inputs, credit, extension and research, and farm-to-market
roads--compounded this problem. However, recent major irrigation projects
financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are addressing these problems
by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
13.       Although agriculture must occupy a predominant position in Nepal's
development strategy, important opportunities exist in other directly produc-
tive sectors, including tourism and industry. Tourism is one of the most
rapidly growing sectors of the economy. Tourist arrivals have risen from fewer
than 50,000 in 1971 to over 125,000 in 1977. But unless tourist services,
particularly air transport, are expanded apace, this growth must necessarily
come to a halt. Investment opportunities in large-scale industry are limited
by the extremely low purchasing power of the population, the inaccessibility
of much of the country, the country's remoteness from sources of supply and
markets abroad, and its poor endowment with mineral resources. Under these
circumstances, most private capital is invested in small agro-industries,
trade, tourism and real estate, where profits are more assured. Effective
promotion of agro-industrial investments would help promote crop diversifica-
tion by farmers and increase domestic value added. Similarly, improved mar-
keting arrangements both within Nepal and abroad, inputs supply and credit
availability could help expand production by cottage industries. There is
also potential in forest-based industries, based on controlled exploitation
of forest resources. At present, however, fuelwood needs are causing the
rapid depletion of forest resources in the Hills, contributing to the already
massive erosion arising from natural causes and forage depletion. Immediate
efforts in this sector must, therefore, concentrate on reforestation and water-
shed management. In the longer run, fuller exploitation of Nepal's vast water
resources could provide a basis for accelerated economic growth.
14.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to undertake its development programs, considering the extreme poverty, low
degree of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenues have
grown at 16% a year since 1969/70, and revenues as a percentage of GDP have
increased from 5.0% in 1969/70 to about 7.5% in 1976/77. Over the same period,
the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in excess of
2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic position. 1/
It will be difficult, however, to maintain the public savings rate because
current expenditures will have to start growing more rapidly than in the past
to allow for proper maintenance of roads and major irrigation schemes, and
the operating expenses of expanding social services.
15.       The narrow tax base limits the potential for generating increased
revenues through tax rate adjustments, but there is still considerable scope
for increasing the contribution of agriculture, and improving tax administra-
tion. Effective implementation of the recent agreement with India to improve
control of unauthorized trade along the long common border would constitute an
important step in this direction.
1/   Average government saving in the least developed countries as a
whole is about -0.7%.



- 5 -
16.       In view of the limited prospects for additional resource mobiliza-
tion, foreign aid remains the decisive factor in Nepal's development. Foreign
aid has increased rapidly during the 1970s, but present projections indicate
that there will nevertheless be residual financing needs, which will prove
difficult to fill through projects assistance. Donors need to consider financ-
ing a larger portion of the local costs of projects, increasing commodity
assistance, and providing sector aid.
17.       As important as the need for additional financial assistance is the
need to boost further absorptive capacity. Donors have responded through
project-related technical assistance, and more recently, through efforts to
strengthEn the development administration capacity in certain key sectors.
To assist in the overall coordination of financial and technical assistance
efforts, the Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976; the Group has met twice at
plenary meetings to discuss overall external assistance needs as well as at
the local. level in Kathmandu to discuss and coordinate strategy.
18.       As of December 31, 1977, official foreign debt amounted to $299 M.
Although utilization has been slow in the past, disbursements are beginning
to accelerate rapidly. Debt service was equivalent to about 2% of exports of
goods ancl services. In view of the accelerating pace of development, external
public debt is expected to rise and, based on the trend in recent years, may
reach about $450 million by 1980, of which approximately 50% could be in IDA
credits. Because of the large grant element in much of the foreign aid,
the total. debt service ratio is projected to remain below 5% by 1980; debt
service t:o the Bank Group alone would be less than 2% of exports of goods
and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. In the fol-
lowing nine years, 17 additional credits were approved, bringing total IDA
assistance to Nepal to US$190.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In
view of Nepal's many development needs, this assistance has been for projects
in a wide variety of sectors. Five of these sectors account for 84% of IDA
credits by amount: irrigaition (31% for 4 projects); power (22% for 1 project);
telecommunications (11% for 3 projects); highways (10% for 2 projects); and
water supply and sewerage (10% for 2 projects). The remaining 16% of IDA
assistance has been for one project in each of the areas of rural development
(4%), settlement (3%), technical education (3%), tourism (2%), technical
assistance (2%), and industrial development financing (2%). The proposed
credit would be the second in FY79, bringing the total amount of IDA assist-
ance to Nepal to US$201.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank
loans have been made to Ne!pal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1
million) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary
statement: of Bank Group operations as of April 30, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing IDA projects.  It shows certain delays in the implementa-
tion of these projects, particularly during the initial periods. These delays



- 6 -
have been largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities.
In order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable tech-
nical assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, including our Resident
Mission in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the rate of disbursements
is being realized. During FY78, US$11.4 million equivalent were disbursed
compared to US$12.8 million equivalent disbursed during the entire previous
seven years; disbursements through April 30, 1979 indicate a further improve-
ment, disbursing $14.6 million equivalent so far in FY79.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has persistently shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic
development and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The
main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implement-
ation. The Bank is assisting the Government in project preparation through
the Technical Assistance Credit and by acting as Executing Agency for a number
of technical assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year Program. The
Bank Group has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its
role in organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, forestry, water supply, grain storage,
and cottage/small industry is under way.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
22.       Nearly 96% of Nepal's population lives in rural areas and for 95%
of these residents, agriculture is the main source of livelihood as alter-
native occupations are extremely limited. In the decade 1961-1971, when the
non-agricultural labor force increased by 2.5%, the agricultural labor force
increased in that period by 6.3%. This both increased pressure on land and
increased rural underemployment. Urban areas are few and most settlements
contain populations of less than 3,000. Hamlets are more widely dispersed
in the Hills and Mountains than in the Terai (plains), adding yet another
dimension to the problems of developing rural Hill and Mountain regions.
Thus, the contrasts in Nepal are not so much between urban and rural areas,
as between the Terai (with its relatively higher level of overall development)
and the Hills and Mountains (except the three districts comprising the
Kathmandu Valley).
23.       Nepal is divided physically into three broad ecological zones:  the
Terai, Hills and Mountains.  These th ee zones cover respectively 17%, 68%
and 15% of the total area (140,800 km ). Rivers and streams cut through the
country from north to south and with the hills create numerous microclimatic
zones in valley bottoms and on surrounding hill peaks. Geography, a limiting



factor in the development of the Hill and Mountain areas, adds to isolation
and perpetuates ethnic, linguistic and cultural differences. This isolation
is further accentuated by lack of communications; in 1974, 42 out of 55
hill districts were without major road access, and 10 of these districts did
not have even feeder roads.
24.       The population of Nepal is now estimated at about 13 million and is
distributed as follows: 58% Hills, 34% Terai and 8% Mountains. The annual
national growth rate of 2.1% has shown no perceptible signs of decrease over
recent years. Most of the population is young: the median age is about 22
years, and 66% of the population is below 30 years.  In the decade 1961-1971,
the popu'Lation grew at a faster annual rate in the Terai than in the Hills
and Mounitains: 2.6% and 1.4% respectively. This difference in growth rates
is large'Ly explained by migration from the Hills and Mountains.
25.        In 1971, the average holding size in Nepal was 0.94 ha per family
but this average masks considerable variations as 81% of families in the Hills
own less than 1 ha, compared with 53% in the Terai. In 1962, the average farm
holding of a household in the Hills was 0.56 ha; in 1976, this was estimated
at less than 0.4 ha, while in the Far West Region, the estimate was less than
0.3 ha. Each holding, particularly in the Hills, is sub-divided into plots of
smaller size covering several microclimatic zones, thus reducing risks conse-
quent on vagaries of weather, changes in the courses of rivers and streams,
and landslides. In addition, inheritance continues to decrease land holding
size at each succeeding generation.
26.       Nutrition.  Zonal differences in production of major food crops are
considerable, and when translated into terms of caloric requirements for mini-
mum subsistence 1/, the average family in the Mountains now has enough food
for aboul: 190 days; in the Hills, for 225 days; and in the Terai, for 540 days.
The declining potential of the Hill and Mountain areas to provide subsistence
for its residents is reflected in high infant mortality rates (estimated at
over 200,/1,000 live births), a high child mortality rate between the ages 1-4
(estimated at 39/1,000) and a general lowered resistance to disease.
Objectives and Strategy for the Future
27.        The Fifth Plan (1975-1980) attempts to shift investment in favor
of quick--yielding growth promoting programs in agriculture, industry, water
resources and tourism.  In the Hill areas, it is the Government's goal to
eliminate the deficit in foodgrains production. For cottage industries, the
Government has proposed a two-pronged approach: (i) developing cottage
industries in the most promising growth areas in the Hills for sale in the
rest of the country or for export, and (ii) developing self-reliance in
inaccessible areas, by catering to the needs of the local people in the area.
For rura'L development, the Government envisages an area-based integrated
development strategy. Earlier, the general approach had not been integrated,
1/   About 2,000 calories per day for an adult.



- 8 -
and efforts were concentrated on one or, at best, a few facets of district
development. Most agencies had established autonomous project authorities
which had generally operated through different ministries of the Government.
In early 1977, the Government decided to formulate guidelines for implementa-
tion of future rural development projects and which would be adoDted by all
international agencies agreeing to assist in the financing of such projects.
In light of experience gained during execution of the IDA financed First Rural
Development Project (Credit 617-NEP) (see para 34 below), the Government
requested IDA assistance in formulating appropriate guidelines; these were
discussed with representatives of aid donors at a meeting held in Kathmandu
in mid-1977. The proposals emphasize participation of the people in drawing
up development plans and establish that implementation should be carried out
under the aegis of the District Administrative Plan (DAP). Furthermore, they
identify priority areas for development, training and technical assistance
and indicate those components which should normally be included in rural
development projects. These proposals have since formed the basis for
project formulation and implementation.
Organization and Implementation
28.       Overall responsibility for coordination and implementation of rural
development projects is vested in the Ministry of Home Panchayat (MOHP) and
exercised by an already established Panchayat Development Central Coordination
Committee (CCC), which is chaired by the Minister of Home Panchayat and in-
cludes representatives of the National Panchayat, Back-to-the-Village National
Campaign Committee (BVNCC), and Secretaries of the line ministries (designated
as project officers). A Central Project Coordinator (CPC), holding the rank
of Additional Secretary, serves as member/secretary. To assist the CPC in
carrying out his duties, five new administrative divisions, each headed by
a Joint Secretary, have been established within the MOHP, responsible for
resource mobilization, training, research, coordination and panchayat devel-
opment. The CPC, operating through the five administrative divisions, ensures
inter-project coordination and funding, provides general administrative sup-
port in project implementation and monitors and evaluates progress. Respon-
sibility for implementation of individual project components rests with the
designated project officers of the respective ministries and agencies.
29.       Administratively, Nepal is divided into four Development Regions,
running from north to south and each comprising Mountain, Hill and Terai
areas. Each Development Region is sub-divided into Development Zones, vary-
ing from 3 to 5 in number, which are further divided into Districts. Zonal
Coordinating Committees (ZCC) would be established and chaired by the Zonal
Commissioner and comprise Chief District Officers (CDOs), regional directors
of line departments, BVNCC District Chairman, and District Panchayat Chairmen.
The responsibilities of the ZCC would be: (i) to coordinate project activi-
ties of participating ministries and agencies; (ii) to keep under regular
review the progress of development projects; (iii) to review and to evolve,
as necessary, procedures for smooth project implementation and monitoring;
and (iv) to identify bottlenecks hindering project progress and to prescribe,
as necessary, remedial measures to overcome them. In addition, ZCC would
provide guidelines on the directions and nature of support which should be



- 9 -
given by central line agenciess to the districts and the time schedules for
planning, preparation, approval and implementation of subprojects. The ZCC
would also endorse district plans.
30.       Under the DAP, the Chief District Officer (CDO) is the administra-
tive head of all government functionaries of line ministries operating at the
district level. District officers of these line ministries are merged into a
District Secretariat, which also functions as the Secretariat to the district
panchayat. DAP defines the two areas of responsibility of the CDO as mainte-
nance of law and order and district development. Execution of the latter
function is entrusted to a Panchayat Development Officer under the CDO's
supervision.  Line ministries retain technical supervision of staff at dis-
trict level while delegating administrative and financial responsibility to
the CDO for the preparation and implementation of district development plans.
Popular participation in development is established through coordination com-
mittees, chaired by the district panchayat Chairman and comprising the CDO,
representatives of line ministries and district panchayat. The District
Secretariat is responsible for implementation of approved projects.
31.       The panchayat system, which encompasses the political and develop-
mental organizations, has three tiers. At the lowest level is the village
panchayat or, for areas with a population of 10,000 and more, a town panchayat.
The next level is the district panchayat. At the highest level is the National
Panchayat whose 125 members are elected by members of district panchayats.
The Panchayat system and assistance in local development are the responsi-
bilities of the MOHP, headed by a minister who is responsible to the National
Panchayat. The Local Development Department (LDD) of the Ministry is its
executive arm, through which technical assistance and funds are channelled to
panchayats.
32.       The major responsilbility for local development lies with village
and district panchayats. Village panchayat programs are initiated at village
meetings and submitted to the district panchayat for technical clearance and
financial assistance from grants which the LDD places at the disposal of
district panchayats for this purpose. Village panchayat projects are imple-
mented through local implementation committees composed of village panchayat
chairmen, district assembly members and voluntary workers. Technical super-
vision is provided by district panchayat staff. The MOHP undertakes training
of officials and elected memlbers and provides staff and development funds.
33.       The responsibility for planning and implementation of district
panchayat development programs lies with the Secretariat of district pan-
chayats.  After approval by the district assembly, development programs are
submitted to the concerned departments for technical approval and provision
of funds. During implementation, projects are supervised by technical staff
of the appropriate departments. The MOHP provides a multipurpose development
worker to each village panchayat, who also acts as secretary of the panchayat.
Such workers not only serve as a liaison between the district administration
and village panchayats, but also provide administrative support, especially
in respect of record keeping and accounting.



- 10 -
Bank Group Support to Rural Development
34.       The Bank Group is at present involved in an on-going rural develop-
ment project and a settlement project. The first Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 617-NEP, US$8.0 million equivalent) became effective in July 1976
and is assisting in the development of the two Hill districts of Nuwakot and
Rasuwa, located in the Central Region. The project is comprised of eight
components:
(a)  Development of more intensive agricultural extension accom-
panied by wider use of improved crop varieties, establishment
of farmer and staff training, improvements in marketing of
horticultural produce and upgrading of research stations;
(b)  Livestock development through improved animal health services,
small cheese/butter plants, a livestock market, an exchange
program for improved sires, and improved fodder resources;
(c)  Establishment of a district organization for and undertaking
investments to improve and extend hill and river terrace, and
river valley irrigation systems;
(d)  Improvements in availability of inputs through provision
of small warehouses and credit;
(e)  Soil erosion control;
(f)  Health centers and development of village water supplies;
(g)  Tracks and footbridges and upgrading of existing trails; and
(h)  Improvement of cottage industries.
35.       General progress has been satisfactory.  With some exceptions,
implementation is either ahead of schedule or as forecast at appraisal. Track
and trail improvement has lagged owing to shortages of labor during the con-
struction season. Furthermore, shortages of well-trained staff and lack of
seed of improved varieties have contributed to a slow rate of improvement in
agricultural production. However, with the recruitment of village agricul-
tural assistants from the area farmers and with the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation   (AIC) providing improved seed and fertilizer through their
sales depots, agricultural production is on the increase and considerable
increases in potato production have occurred at higher elevations. The
establishment of four small cheese/butter plants have also increased cash
returns to livestock keeping. District staff are now acquainted with the
project and display considerable keenness and initiative. Preparation of the
annual district development plan has insured local participation and there is
a marked increase in the confidence of local people toward the ability of
Government to implement these programs. Interministerial coordination has
been good and the Project Coordinator has been effective in ensuring funding



- 11 -
and providing support for district staff. Reporting of progress has been
satisfactory. Disbursement is 85% of estimates (the discrepancy being due to
savings in building costs and failure to meet expected development of tracks
and trails), even though procurement procedures have been cumbersome due to
unfamiliarity with procedures.
36.       The Settlement Project (Credit No. 505-NEP, US$6.0 million equiva-
lent) became effective in 1975 and is assisting in the clearing of land and
settlement of three areas, two in the western Terai at Kanchanpur and Bardia,
and one in the eastern Terai at Jhapa. The settlement schemes are designed
to relocate rural families mainly from the Hills, and include food assistance
during the first 270 days of settling in, extension services for agriculture
and provision of credit. The project concept is designed to utilize the earn-
ings from the sale of logs and lumber to finance investments in the settlement
schemes, resulting in a very low-cost rural development scheme, in addition to
a viable investment in the logging industry.  Project progress in the forestry
clearing component has been slow, due to both technical and managerial con-
straints, while the implementation of the commensurately smaller settlement
schemes has been satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the Agricultural Projects
Service Center of Nepal, withi assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program;
preparatory work was financed under the first IDA-assisted rural development
project. The project was appraised in November/December 1978. Negotiations
were held in Kathmandu, Nepal, in May 1979. The Nepalese delegation was led
by H.S. Shrestha, Joint Secre!tary, Ministry of Finance. A report entitled
"Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report - Second Rural Development Project" (Report
No. 2401-NE]?, dated May 31, 1979) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the project, special imple-
mentation actions to be taken by the Association and special conditions of
the proposed credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
38.       The project would help develop the three far western Hill districts
of Dandeldhura, Baitadi, and Darchula (Maps IBRD 14189 and 14190) and aims
to raise agricultural product:ion to levels whereby farmers could meet full
family subsistence. Given the remote project area, poor communications, and
low income levels, the project: (i) emphasizes the adoption of low-cost mea-
sures for raising productivity; (ii) utilizes simple design schemes for con-
struction of irrigation works, wells, trails etc., which can subsequently be
maintained by the beneficiaries; (iii) upgrades infrastructure; and (iv) pro-
vides complementary investments in social services.
Project Description
39.       The main components of the project are:



- 12 -
(a) upgrading of agricultural and livestock extension services;
(b) expansion of agriculture and cottage industry credit
programs and strengthening of Sajha cooperatives;
(c) expansion of horticulture through provision of fruit
trees and vegetable seed;
(d)  establishment of animal health and buffalo breeding programs;
(e) development and improvement of about 700 ha of hill and
terrace irrigation schemes using water from perennial
and seasonal sources and of about 700 ha of gravity-fed
irrigation schemes in river valleys and lower terraces;
(f) upgrading of 225 shallow drinking water wells;
(g) construction and improvement of 3 small (15 bed) hospitals
and about 25 health posts and provision for increased staff
and supplies of drugs and medical equipment;
(h) upgrading about 110 lower secondary and 15 secondary schools
through improvement to buildings and libraries, construc-
tion of 5 student hostels, provision of teaching aids, and
increasing the number of mathematics and science teachers;
(i) provision of panchayat facilities by construction of about
22 multipurpose panchayat community centers, strengthening
of district accounting staff, and training of panchayat
officials and staff;
(j) provision of furniture and fittings for existing post
offices and construction of about 19 additional sub-post
offices and about 50 relay stations;
(k) upgrading of about 250 km of main trails and about 340 km
of secondary trails, and construction of about 128 timber
and 19 suspension bridges;
(1)  establishment of a divisional erosion control office and
undertaking of protection measures for roads and trails
and on other infrastructure;
(m)  improvement of cottage industry through a study to determine
the potential and prospects in the project area and through
training of staff and of those engaged in wool weaving; and
(n) establishment of project headquarters and provision of
staff, equipment and technical assistance.
40.        In line with the administrative procedures established for all rural
development projects in Nepal (para 28), overall responsibility would be



- 13 -
vested in the Panchayat Development Central Coordination Committee (Section
3.03(a) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). It would be a condition
of effectiveness that the ZCC had been established for the Mahakali Zone and
a full-time Project Coordinat:or (PC) had been appointed (Sections 3.03(b)
and (c) and 5.01(c) of the DCA). The PC would be appointed from the MOHP of
at least Joint Secretary rank and would serve under the general direction and
supervision of the CPC. The PC would serve as member/secretary of the ZCC
and would be assisted by an adviser appointed under the technical assistance
program (para 47) and would establish a project headquarters expected to be
located in Patan.
41.       Each District Secretariat (para 30) would prepare annually a
District Development Plan for each district in the project area in consulta-
tion with the district panchayat, with assistance from the PC. Participating
ministries/agencies would thean provide technical clearance of their components
through their designated project officers. Individual components of the plan
would then be implemented under the direct supervision of the technical func-
tionaries of the concerned ministries, but under the overall guidance of CDO
and with the support and cooperation of the district panchayat. District
Development Plans would be submitted annually to IDA by September 15 for com-
ment, and budgetary allocations to districts would be made in amounts suffi-
cient for the proposed projeczt (Section 3.07 of the DCA).
42.       The project would be implemented according to standard procedures
of Government as they apply to planning, approval, budgeting procedures, and
responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance. The PC would play an important
role in preparation of financial estimates and district development plans and
would assist CDOs and District Secretariats in the preparation of these
development plans and detailed implementation schedules within the broad
framework of: (i) project proposals; (ii) requirements of the DAP; and
(iii) technical guidelines from central line agencies. Although the PC's role
would be advisory, he would have the responsibility of bringing disputes and
conflicting priorities, which cannot be resolved at the district level, to the
attention of the relevant ministries and central agencies and, if necessary,
to the ZCC for resolution. The PC would also provide assistance and advice
to central line departments of Government in the timing, phasing and contents
of their inputs to district plans. The PC would then present the completed
district plan to the ZCC for endorsement and thereafter ensure timely sub-
mission of the district plan to the CCC for approval. Finally, the PC would
monitor the process whereby each concerned ministry and agency makes budgetary
requests for financial provision to implement the planned project components
and would collate such requests for the ZCC and the Finance Ministry.
43.       Ait the three district headquarters, facilities, including the con-
struction of offices and staiff housing and provision of equipment, materials,
and incremental staffing, would be developed for expanded and improved pro-
grams of agricultural and livestock extension work, irrigation development,
health services, cottage indlustries, and technical offices of the Ministry
of Works and Transport (MOWT). Similar headquarters facilities to serve all
three districts would be established in Patan for the PC, and for a Panchayat
training program, erosion control, and technical support unit of the MOWT,
and at Dandeldhura for the L.DD water supply project.



- 14 -
44.       The focus of most project activities would be the administrative
service centers. About 22 such centers would be established under the proj-
ect, each covering about 4-5 panchayats. Each center would be constructed
from locally-available materials and would comprise a small office building
for use by extension staff and other visiting government staff, as well as
facilities for a small livestock dispensary and standing buffalo bull, a
sajha cooperative office and store, post office and community hall; office
and training equipment and staff quarters would also be provided. Each
service center would also make available to local farmers the use of a small
hand winnower to clean and grade seed.
45.       Overall project implementation would take five years.  A seed
exchange program as well as extension services would be initiated from the
beginning of the project. Given the focus of the extension programs on
adoption of low-cost measures for raising agricultural production, increased
agricultural credit is not expected to be required until the fourth and fifth
years of the project. The upgrading and construction of the irrigation works,
trails and bridges, health posts and schools are planned to commence at the
end of the first or at the beginning of the second year of the project. As
some of the project components were developed and would be implemented by
separate corporations, as opposed to Government line agencies, it would be
a condition of credit effectiveness that the Government had entered into
formal arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with the Agricultural
Input Corporation (AIC), the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN),
and the Dairy Development Corporation (DDC) (Sections 3.01(b)(i) and 5.01(a)
of the DCA).
46.       With the assistance of a training and communication officer (Section
3.02(d) of the DCA), detailed proposals for agricultural training programs for
extension staff would be prepared and submitted by December 31, 1980 to the
Association for comment (Section 3.10(a)(i) of the DCA). Funds would be
provided under the project for the Dairy Development Corporation (DDC) to
carry out studies by December 31, 1980 and to initiate pilot programs for the
improvement of marketing and prodution of ghee (Section 3.10(a)(iii) of the
DCA). The study on the prospects and potential of cottage industries in the
project area would be initiated by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.10(a)(ii) of
the DCA).
Technical Assistance
47.       Through a UNDP technical assistance agreement, three internationally
recruited staff are expected to be employed for three years to assist in
project implementation (Sections 3.02(a), (b) and (c) of the DCA). A rural
development administrator would serve as assistant to the PC to help develop
procedures and expertise at district level in planning, budgeting and project
implementation and to assist in setting up a system for project monitoring,
disbursement and accounting. A civil engineer would work with staff of a
district technical support unit and a district technical office of the MOWT
in planning, design and implementation of work programs for project buildings,
bridges, trail improvement, and construction of hill terrace irrigation. A
socio-economist would formulate and develop procedures for monitoring the
socio-economic impact of the project on participants and assist in the



- 15 -
analysis of data collected. The socio-economist would also design and carry
out such ad hoc studies as are necessary to monitor progress and provide
guidance to project management in project implementation. It would be a
condition of credit effectivieness that the Government had made arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, for the retention of these technical experts, as well as
the training and communication officer (para 46) (Section 5.01(b) of DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
48.       The socio-economic unit set up in the Office of the CPC in the MOHP
under the first rural development project (para 34) has proven to be a very
useful tool in providing data on project progress and pointing out areas of
concern and ways of resolution. The proposed project would strengthen this
socio-economic program through the appointment of additional staff, training
of local ccunterparts, and with the assistance of the socio-economist to be
provided under the technical assistance program.   The project would also
provide funds for project evaluation; under the program a baseline socio-
economic survey of the three project districts would be designed and conducted.
The unit would also prepare, under the supervision of the PC, semi-annual
project reports. Funds would also be provided under the project for employ-
ment of shcrt-term consultants to assist in preparation of the project com-
pletion report, as well as for feasibility studies and preparation of a
further rural development project.
Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$13.5 M equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies and a negligible amount of taxes and duties. The cost
estimates are updated to March 1979 prices and include physical contingencies
of 10% for construction of buildings and 15% of costs of trails, irrigation
and erosion control works. Price contingencies have been calculated using
6% per annum price increases for equipment and vehicles and 8% per annum for
civil works and other project costs. The foreign exchange cost is estimated
at US$4.0 million or about 30% of total project cost. The proposed IDA credit
would cover all the foreign exchange cost (excluding the financing for tech-
nical assistance expected to be provided by UNDP) and about US$8.0 million
equivalent of local costs, amounting to 81% of total project cost. UNDP would
provide about US$1.1 M and the Government would contribute US$1.4 M equivalent
in local cost or about 11% of total project cost. The cost of individual
consultantst services is based on the UNDP scales of about US$65,000 per
man-year, including benefits, overheads, etc.
50.       Agricultural credit funds (US$350,000) 1/ would be made available
to ADBN under arrangements and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.01(b)(i) of the DCA). It is expected that funds would
be on-lent to ADBN at 6% and 4% per annum for short- and medium-term loans,
respectively, equivalent to present rediscount facilities of the Central Bank.
In line with present policy, ADBN would lend to cooperatives at 10% and 8%
1/   Net of price contingencies.



- 16 -
per annum respectively; they, in turn, would on-lend to farmers at 14% and
11% per annum respectively. Interest margins would be adequate to cover all
operating expenditures and charges, including taxes and borrowing from all
sources and are sufficient to maintain adequate reserves to meet reasonable
bad debt risks. Inflation in Nepal over the past three years has averaged
6.7% per annum and is not expected to exceed 7% annually over the next three
years. Therefore, the proposed rates to the ultimate borrowers would be
positive in real terms.
51.       Capital costs, including construction and civil works, provision
of equipment and supplies, and studies, represent over 55% of total project
cost. 1/ Operating costs 1/ for incremental staff and other incremental
recurrent expenditures amount to about 30% of total project cost. The re-
mainder 1/ is made up of technical assistance (11%) and credit (4%). The
incremental operating costs are relatively small and well within the capacity
of the Government to sustain after the five year project implementation
period. In light of the investment to be undertaken to upgrade gravity-fed
irrigation schemes in river valleys and lower terraces, the Government would
submit proposals to the Association by June 30, 1984, regarding the amount
and method of collection for the levy of appropriate water charges (Section
3.09 of the DCA).
52.       Procurement.  Procurement of equipment, furniture and vehicles
(US$908,000) 1/, involving contracts above US$100,000 would be on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Orders of less than US$100,000 would be purchased under Government local
tender procedures which are satisfactory. Because of the remoteness of the
project area and small size of individual schemes, it would not be practical
to group civil works contracts (US$5.8 M 1/) for ICB or local competitive
bidding. Consequently, civil works would be undertaken by the Ministry con-
cerned, using local labor, with the exception of works on "major" irrigation
schemes (US$659,000) 1/ which would be subject to local competitive bidding.
53.       Disbursement.  Disbursement of funds would be on the following
basis: (i) 90% of local expenditures for civil works carried out either by
contract or by force account; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment, furniture and vehicles and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 90% of local expenditure
for other goods procured locally; (iii) 90% of agricultural and cottage in-
dustry subloans disbursed by ADBN; (iv) 100% of total expenditures for consul-
tant services and training; and (v) 90% of local expenditures for salaries
and allowances of staff engaged in the project in agricultural and livestock
development, cooperatives, AIC, health, cottage industry, civil engineering,
training and in project management, monitoring and evaluation. Disbursement
against civil works carried out by force account and by contracts costing
US$5,000 equivalent or less and against categories (iii) and (v) above would
be made against statements of expenditures. The documentation for such
expenditures would be retained by the Government and made available for
1/   Net of price contingencies.



- 17 -
inspection by IDA representatives during the course of project supervision.
Requests for disbursement against other items would be fully documented.
54.       The Government would cause participating Government ministries,
ADBN, AIC, and DDC to establish and maintain separate accounts for the project
in accordaince with sound accounting practices and would insure that these
accounts wrould be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA and furnished to the Association not later than twelve months after the
end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.01(a) and (c) of the DCA). The audit
report would be required to include a statement that funds disbursed against
statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. The documents evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawa:Ls are requested on the basis of statements of expenditure would be
retained until one year after the closing date (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA.
Productionl and Farm Incomes
55.       At full development in 1990, production is expected to increase by
between 25-50% for the various crops (valued at about US$2.35 M annually) and
net farm incomes would improve by 50-130%. Benefits are expected through
yield improvements rather t:han increased cropping intensity or area expansion.
Production increases from Livestock would result in increased production of
milk, meat, wool, hair, and dung valued at about US$475,000 annually (gross
value of production in financial prices). Almost all increased production
would be consumed on farm to help meet subsistence needs. Ghee would be
marketed across the border in India where there is a high demand for the
product. Incremental wool producticn would be readily absorbed in the project
area since wool based cottage industries presently have to import wool from
Tibet and India. Consequently, no marketing constraints are foreseen for any
incremental production resulting from the project.
Benefits and Risks
56.       At full development, increased production would raise family food
levels tc about 410 days at minimum subsistence levels 1/ or 330 days at
average subsistence levels 2/, compared to 295 days and 250 days respectively
without the project. Current consumption levels are estimated at about 300
days at minimum subsistence and 260 days at average subsistence levels. In-
creased production would help reduce underemployment on farms and over the
project period, development of infrastructure would provide about 4 million
mandays of employment, mainly in construction. It is expected that the
project would also help slow down permanent migration from the area, which in
turn wou:Ld reduce population pressures on scarce land resources elsewhere in
Nepal. Benefits from the social and other infrastructure programs would also
contribute indirectly to increased production. At full development, the
average income of the poorest group would increase from about 17% of the
1/   2,000 calories per day for an adult.
2/   2,500 calories per day for an adult.



- 18 -
national average to about 25%. Per capita incomes of larger farmers in the
project areas (the average farm holding in the far West Region is only 0.3 ha)
are expected to increase from 20% of national average to about 40%.
57.       Discounting the economic costs and the quantifiable benefits over
a 20 year period, the economic rate of return for the project as a whole is
estimated at about 21%. The economic rate of return for the agricultural
development component, which represents about 18% of total project cost,
is estimated at about 50%; the economic rates of return for the irrigation
component, which represents about 11% of total project cost, and for the
livestock component, which represents about 6% of total project cost, are
estimated to be about 12% and 15% respectively. Costs and benefits of the
social programs have not been included as the benefits are non-quantifiable.
Sensitivity tests indicate that, under a series of adverse assumptions, the
project would remain viable. If projected crop yields decreased by 20%, and
construction costs increased by 50%, the economic rate of return would be 14%.
If achievement of full benefits of the project were delayed by 5 years, the
economic rate of return would be 17%.
58.       In view of the remoteness of the project area, the greatest risk
lies in the availability and willingness of government staff to live and work
in project areas. The project is designed to minimize this risk by providing
accommodation, project allowances and social amenities to create sufficient
incentives for staff participation. In addition, the training of staff for
the Department of Village and Cottage Industries would be allocated on a
priority basis to locally resident staff, and those selected for training
would undertake to serve in the project area for at least two years from the
date of return (Section 3.08 of the DCA). Lack of communications and means
of transportation may also affect farmers' participation in the project. To
minimize this risk, activities would be decentralized to administrative
service centers located throughout the project area. In addition, tracks
and trails would be improved to facilitate delivery of inputs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be that the the Govern-
ment had: (i) established the Zonal Coordinating Committee and appointed the
Project Coordinator (para 40); (ii) completed arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, for the carrying out of the project components to be imple-
mented by AIC, ADBN, and DDC (para 45); and (iii) completed arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, for the retention of the required technical
experts (para 47).



- 19 -
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment:s
June 7, 1979



- 20-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
NEPAL               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
AND a>'_  THGU KM2)                      -------------------------------
---------------                                  NEPAL                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL      140.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      40.0                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           AFGHANISTAN   BOLIVIA         TURKEY**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     50.0       70.0      110.0              110.0       29C.0       510.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            9.3       11.3       13.1               12.3/a       4.9        35.B
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       66.0       80.0       93.0               19.0         4.0        46.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO       243.0      284.0      328.0               87.0        16.0        65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.3       44.7       42.9               48.7        44.4        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.8       24.6       20.3               27.6        19.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..                200,0 -300                      1 154.0     153:0 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.6       40.6       43.6               37.8        45.3        54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0        3.0        2.9                3.4         2.8         2. /b,c
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.5        2.1        2.1                2.21b       2.6         2 5
URBAN                                 6.5        3.9        5.4                5.2         4.2         4.9 Id
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           3.4        4.1        4.8               10.7        32.3        38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       39.9         ..       40.5               43.2        41.9        41.7
15 To 64 YEARS                       57.0                   56 .4             54.2        54.6       54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1         .         3.1                2.6         3.5         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.6         ..        0.8                0.6         0.8         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0                   1.0                  -         1.0 /a      1.1 Ia
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ,.       86.5     378.6                  ''
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..      17.0                  ..          .8. .2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)         4300.0      4900.0         .                 ..      2300.0   14000   If
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         94.6        94.4         ,                 ..        6s.0/b    63    -
UNEMPLOYED (5 OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        ..         ..                 ..        16.0       11.9  a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..             C      32.8 a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..        59.0j       60.6
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..         4.0         2.9 1
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..        13.0 C       9.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                  ..         ..        53.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            72000.0   49770.0o4. 36550.0             14680.0      2300.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ,.   35600.0 1k 17430.0 /           210830.0     2730.0      1770.0 /
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          7000.0/a 6750.0    6630.0                     ..      490.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         92.0       94.0        f.O a/            78.0        76..0     112.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              51.0       52.0      50.Of              58.0        46.0       798.0,
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0 /b    11.0       9.2L               11.0        14.074      22.07M
DEATH RATE (/THDU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                  .-        7.4        14.7/A
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       10.0       26.0      59.0/c              21.0/C     68.0        109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      6.0        9.0      14.0  /d             6.07      21.0         28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0               12.0       10.0         11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(' OF SECONDARY)                      0.2        6.0      22.0/c,e            4.2        11.0fe       14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                10.0       14.0       19.2               10.0        40.0        55.0/a
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.0/C                                                            1 ..*  *-  -  1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      52.0/C       .-      14.0/f              97.0/d        .        66.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                       -                     
(% OD  ALL DWELLINGS)                30.0/C       *-        ''                  ''          ''       40.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ,.        ..         ..                 ..          ..        18.0
CONSUMPTiON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER TAOU POP)           1.0       5.0         6.0               6.0          ,.        89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU OOP)           0.27d      0.4                           3.0         4.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CA^'             1.0       6.0        t0o0              32.0       160.0       247.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..        ..         ..                0.1         1.0         0.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFtNITIONS ON REVERSE



- 21 -
NM
Unique ochervles. noted, fe.e. 1Gf per capita andl population), data for 1960 refer to any veer between 1919 sod 1961, for 19?0 betwaus 1969 sod
1971, sod for Most faceto Estimiate between 1973 enid 1976.
Over the past forty pears, Turkey's economy has goowo at a respectable pace, starting from a very eail1 bas.-  In so doiog the country has
formulated objectives sod faced problems sod constraints which, to considearshe degree, are quite similiar to those Nepal is mow facinga.  Among
others, theme, Ioclude increasing output from the productivescos-giutr  and industry, accelersting Import eubetituticoc. diversifying
sod.increasIng sopocre. mohillioig resources, improving education, health, training end employmant opportunities, land reform end improving
income distrcbotioo.
NEPAL.        9190    /I  1965;    /b  1964-66;    Ic  Capital sod main cities  noly;    /d  196).
1930    Ia  Peresonnel ito   . govermet services;    /b  Including midwivee.
KO;T OLECENT ESTINATE:      / I.  ncluding niduives and .osisrent nurses;    Ih  1974 data;    Ic  1976-77;    /d  L-owr onccodary (Grade, 4-7)
only;    /a  Upper secondary (trade 0-il) only;           It  Unbar only.
uFGHANOISTAN  1910     I.  Popuistior data for Afghanietan relate to the floral year which starto cc 21 March;    lb  Difference between UN0 rote of
natural i.cureeo and Bsni, popuistior grooth rote due to differeor pcpulatioo estimates;    /c  Public edu..atioo only;
Id Percentage of powulacior without esfe with supply.
BOLIVIA       1970       RatMaio of populatlon uoder 15 and 65 aod over to total Ishor  fore;    /b  Ao percentage of labor force in employnent;
Ic  Population;      Id  1964-66;      I.  Begioning 1900 tha durstion of genramrl secodary education wee reduced from 6 to 4
y.ere.
ThRCt   970    /   1007;    /b  Excludas 17 eastern prvncn                 c  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;    /.  Ratio of population under 11 and 65 end
over to total civilian lshor force;    If  Civilian. labor force;    IjL Including peek season agriculture underaploymsot;
lb  Disposable income (106);         It.  Including assistant nturses end midwivea;    Ij  964-66;    1k  1967-6f;   /1  Persons
sin years and ove r who tell the census. takers that they can read and write..
R13 September 11, 1970
DEFfNrlONf104 OP SOCIAL. IfODCATOROS
Land 4res (thou too2)                                                                           Popul.tirn per .roring psr..n - Population dividno by ocaber of prartloing
Trel-I  TocAl -orfac  area  -opnioieg lord ar.es nd tol,sd waters.                                nabond (rotat  greduat tnrr , trined" or  rcertlfied" nr es,sd
Afoit.  M-tHr  reteroetir- of  gniruItu-I area used temporarily or porn-                          austilisry pernonrel with training or soportenre.
corly for crops, paorturs..  arket A hitcher gSrdsns or to lie fallow.                       l'rula.tio  pre  hoapital hod - Population divided by otaber of hospital  brd,
ovailble in public and private asor   sd ap-ialiond hospitol end
GNP nor capita (US$) - GNP per c-pito estiosteseat o-rreot market prlr-,                          reaIIIltetI_nceters;.. encldes nursing homes sod estoblislusts  for
calcuItotd by cane cororilo  method as World B.0k utica  (1975-77 hosts);                       rustodiel cod prevention core.
lOu0; 1979 aod 197 dat.-                                                                     per ..pit. supply of calories f7. of reuoire....te(  - Computed from energy
eqoiv-lent of met food  uopplien avalable in uv-try per -apito per day;
Populeti-en nd vital statistico                                                                   a-silabls supplies comprise dnee-ttc production, imports lean erporte, -rd
Putrn(old-yea  00110cr) -A.s or July first:  if ror avilable, average                       changes, in stock; net supplien emclude animal feed, osedo. quentitien oaod
of two eod-yrar estimates; 1960, 1970 end  1977dsts.                                            in rood processing end looses to dietrihution; req.irsnete ..re estimated
by PA0 based on physirlogical node for normal activiry end health -odd-
Populutiom  density   pere  equate ho M id-year population per equate kilomter                    eriog env irossnis  temperature, body weights, ego and sex distributions 0;
(lii bectare..) of  .totl urea.                                                                 populatior, and a11siog l10% for wast.eat ho..seheld level.
PopulatIo  density  pcr euore ho of agric. land - Cosputed as shon  for                         per cepits supply of pretelo foramm, per day) - Protein content of pet c-pita
agri_ulrc-a1 lard only.                                                                         not supply of food per dsy; net supply of food is defined as ahoo;rq'i-
mente fur oil contie terbliebed by USDA Econoic Rc...arch Services
vicol estatitics                                                                                  provide for a nimelse aloae of 60 grass of total protein per doy, cud
tC-de birth rets per thousand  -areroas- Annua  lIve birth. per thousand of                       20 fran  of animal and pulan protei, of which 10 gres,a should ho eo-'o
,.td-yror population; tm-year -rithmtic  -vrges ending in 1960 enod 197i,                       pretein; those stondarda are lowr than thoms of 75 gran  of total prot.ir
-o  f;v-y-o  overge ending in 1075 for moot r-s-t estiate.                                      ood23 gras of animal1 protein us as average for the enrld, pr-poed by P90
Crde death rate per thoosard. overse  - A-.u.I deotho par thousand of mid-year                   in  ho Third World Prod oS-vy.
population; to-yea  oritlseatioav--gea ending ie 1060 sod 1970 and fiv-                       Par -oPit. orstein eupply from onimal sod  wcles- Proret  supply of Poed
yeaeaveruge ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                                            derived fins arilal  end pulses In grms par day.
Irfaut sorcality rats f/thou) -Aenua1 deatha of infaste under one year of age                   Death rate f/thou) mses 1-4 - Annul deaths per thoweend In age greop 1-4
per theonan.d lIes- births.                                                                     yssre,' to ohilIdren in this ege group; suggested as am indicator of
liiroortucv  tbirth fyr.,  -Ivrage nuamber of years of life rentining st                          meInutrition.
birth; acunlly floe-ye-rv--gse. ending In 1969, 10170 aod 1975 for develop-
ing ronrin                                                                                    ducotion
Gross repr-d-tion rate - kverge otanber of lice daughters a               wanoill bear          Adiusfe,d enrollIant ratio - oprisry school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her  ,-r,I r-p-rdurrtivs period if ohs.nsine  present  gS.-perifir                           cetag  of pdmary erhoot-age population; Includes children aged 6-1l your
fertility  ror.a; usualy fie-y-a  -vergee eoding in. 1969, 1070 and 1075                       buat adjusted for different lengths of prItary edu..atiom; for c-otrias wit;,
fer d_eorlping  _nootiso.                                                                       unt-earsl eds..atien, enro1ani may emceed 100% sinca ens pupfle are below
fpoplation_growth rote MX  - tota1 - Cosop.ond atn..al growth rstes of mid-year                   or above the official sohool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-79 aod 1970-75.                                                  Adbstsd enrllmet ratio - e..enda.-v school - Computed es abov; secondary
PPccIaticu otoot  .ete  M  - o-ban - tCmptatd like gr-eth rats of total                           education requires at Isaa.t four years or approved primary lostructico;
popularior; different defioltious ef urban areas may affert comparability of                    prowidee gene.ro1, voctional or tacboo tri-        n  i-tructior-  for pupila
data  -nog coun.tries.                                                                          o12t17yasf  g; carrasponderr, curses ar  g--eril  er-lodod.
trbar  aPuPlation (. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population   dfferent                  Years of  crhooli   provide(frtadend101)-Tol
defloition  of urban arre may effort comparability of data onoog countries.                     schoolioc; at serondary level, cuainlinetrtacio  nay he porriely o
coapletelp eocloded.
Me acototre fes-osil -Children ft-lb yas-), worbiog-ags (15-64 years),                  peatlionsl nriaer    _1of secondry   - v-ctlunot  iec-uloelolde
and oclfred (65 year.eand ...rr) ae percoortfo  of nid-ynar population                          trhbnical, industrial or other prafraco w.Mhic   yrr    ccrdo;   ra
~po irpodrccy  atio -lane ofpopolaIo  undr 15 ad 6) ad oetohnod                                -purct  of  -ecodaryiaccic
of coga 15 chr-gh 6h.                                                                         udult loteruy a   toi    - literate  odu1co  (able t-  -ru  cud cr7- 'cu   p-
tccof  rrdenr -rtio - Ratio of population under 1) aol 65 end coon ccceccaf  of totL1 adult population afrO I  y.:trc or_d:r
nb- tenor torcr in ago group of 15-64 yea.-
raiy  toyc -acP tors (conolacive. thou) -iCronuItivo ouberiof a..crptrra               Ocu- to
of bnrth.ooteoL devices under oaice  of natlonn~  vi nmly plumnog progra                      Persons per room (urban) - Averoge r-ber of perso   perromncasa
stoco cocept icc                                                       conven~~~~~~~~~:tional dwellings in urban areas; doa11oegs  -iclde nen-peoem--en
fooril plcutos-uers (. of narrind wmn    Prcouaof married womn of                            a. trntre  ord u--upied parce.
child-1heariog ago (15-44 yearn) who use birth-control devices to all merried                 Oc..upta,d dwellimes wtot pined water (7'll - Occupied  -onvtiroma  dolftoS,
utuo( -ae age troop.                                                                      inuba  sod rualssacithunr Inside or outside piped eater f-nilltlea
atprcentage of all occuPied dwslli0o..
local abor frce (hocuard    E-toiclycio  poooa  includiog aroed                              electricIty io  lein.g quartrasprote  corl delings to urban and
forces cod areploysd brcecludiog honcoicro, etdento, etc.; dofirOiti-               -1ra   rea
to ca-o orrc    r   o   opor.ubi.                                                             Ouro1 dwelltoo. conncted to electricity (%) - Computed as abets for  -rara
Labor force ioaroocr  (y.( - Agrfc-Itur.1 labor force  (to furinir, fureatry,                     duellinga only.
hurting and fisning) as percen ego of tots1 labor force
Uaa   coc  (7,   o Xf labor force   - in-picyed are  -ally defined as persona who              Connunorto
ar!cic.td  ilig tc tae    (k,   out: of    ,bo or a  ie  day, r-niond our             fadio rec..lo-rs (ne  thou pop) - ill types of recocor  for radio broadcats
..o;b   r   keiferb  o   spcfied minium pergtiod' oot eu ding ore                       to -e-r1 pubIlc per thousa.nd of pepulatiac; ...tludes unilcensdrceer
-r!.  ny  c   hr-oporablo  .t h    -netooocie  doe to diffor-o  definitiona                ir coutries and to year. hw.. regierratlr of radio.et  was I ffo.-
of.cnpoo.ad1_  rro   ar,eg,opoysr   f  o   ra-tc,nrl                                     data far resocsro nay not he comparable sinc  most  --oois  aho1fahed
ur,u  oPu _oycopfey-ce   _oo,roco                                                        li-srsiu.g
Pnsaerosr_corn (pe  tou  op  - Pa....rucer cars .      ur      aorcr   etn
fLoce-  djEttriulo   Perrcsts, of pri-tce inc-m  (both in cash and kirdl)                         losthar  Iht person; ocldes obhula.cen, h..earsesnd silicary
cccni-cd by rirbe-  5X, richest 207, po-rro  20%, sod poorest 40% of hos-.v.-cos
Electrtilir   fkhwb/o  nor cap) - uco-1 r-n-aprto  of tndnarril.    _ ,er        .al
-d  -_e   ~l  - ?er-.g.e of1-1 -..  by ... ,hi..,abli  anIr ass tltrY 00 kIlowatt boora per capita,   --eraly
'story.'. o. cC  tedcocorulc p-ycrcccsgeo  of  ot.( roard by wrarhlset  10    ho07d a  prodertic  d ts, wItou h dllowanro::    fo'.r lose  Or goOds hot aO.oa-
-i y'rs 7       -A ad  .ec..r..                                                                to9 for Lrorto o-d euporco of e1-ocrlity.
Secaric  hoyrpe  cn). PIrap -ta  --ue1 --racptlo  in hilogr-na
Ira) V   I,:ti cc                                                                         nar61dd  ,    b.   fp- J~~,--inatod from denratlc pr-d-rtno plan  -te  Irperce at __wprfcr.
yb.ilcq-aliftrd Iron~ eudicu   r,0   t''les              ro



- 22 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977   U$$120 /a
(;iOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974-/5                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7/, constant prives)
US$ Mln.      7.                           1965-75
(;l'P at Narket Prices                       1,424      100.0                            2.0
(;ross Domestic Investment                     150       10.5
(ross National Saving                          100        7.0
Cuirrent Account Balancc                    -   25    -  1.8
Exports of Coods, NFS                          104        7.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                          154       10.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971-72                                                 Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force /b            Per Worker
US$ M.n .                Mln.                     /            %
Agriculture                                    698       68.0         4.6       95.8           152         71
Industry                                        92       9.0         0.1         2.1           920       430
Services                                       237      23.0         0.1         2.1         2.370     1,107
Total/Average                     1,027      100.0         4.8       100.0          214        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.                    Rs. Mln.      Rs. Min.    Rs. Mln-!
1974/75      % of GDP       1975/76       1976/77     1977/78
Current Receipts                     1,008.2        (6.8)        1,115.7       1,322.9      1,724.6
Current Expenditure                    513.0        (3.5)          626.9         832.1        938.5
Current Surplus                        495.2         3.3           488.8         490.8        786.1
Capital Expenditure                    967.3         6.5         1,238.8       1,498,3      2,148.9
External Assistance (net)              415.0         2.8           457.5         540.8      1,103.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973     1974      1975      1976    1977
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Moncy and Quasi Money                                1,493    1,850    2,027    2,458   3,144
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           319       416       532      480      711
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          459       702       810       783     863
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP                     12.4     11.1      11.1
General Price Index (1973 = 100)                     187.9    218.4    255.4    261.7   264.2
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                   11.2      16.2      17.0       3.7     0.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                    28.1      31.3      27.9    - 9.8    48.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         14.7      52.9      15.4    - 3.3    10.2
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a GNP per capita data based on World Bank Atlas Methodology (1974-76 basis).
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
iT  Provisional
..not available



- ZJ -
ANNEX I
FRAl: PAYMI'NTS AND CAPTIAT. FLOWS
BALANCE tOF PAYMENTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974/75-197t/77) a!
1974/75  1975/76  1976!77                                                                        US5  Mln.
(Millions US1)
Lxp>rt>.   .-. .b                                 60.1      98.3       93.9      Fuedstuff t ray maLtrials                                         69.7        82.6
,mports,   .      b.i. :/                        189.0     15b.3      166.9      Manufactures                                                      10.3        12.2
All other como(dities                                              4.4        5.2
Trade Balance                             -108.9     -58.0      -73.0            Total                                                       84.4       100.0
Ucrvices, juet                                   26.1       23.2       39.4
"C which:  Touriss                          15.7       17.1      23.0       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31,1977
Treios [>rs, enot                                26.5      27.7       30.8                                                                      US5 Min,
,i which:  Private RemiLtances                  14.8      18.5      21.b
Indian Excise Refund                7.9       8.8        9.4      Public Debt, inel. guaranteed                                    298.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Accourt Balance                    -54.3     - 7.1      - 2.8      Total outstanding & Disbursed                                    298.5
Uf'icial Crants                                   19.3      70.0       18.5
OIticial Capital, net                              8.3       12.1      16.3      DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 less  than 2.570 c/
Pr,-a(t CGpital, net                            -14.t        9.6     -10.3
Public Debt, inc. guaranteed
Change in Reserves (- Increase)             41.:3    -34.6      -21.7      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (mid July)                        112.5     120.3      143.0      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves                                    109.8      114.9      137.8
Fuel and Related Materials                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING.  (July 1978)          (Million US$):
Imports of which:  Petroleum                   14.6       16.9      18.8                                                                      IBRD         IDA
Expolrts of which:  Petroleum                    -Outstanding & Disbursed                                                                                  27.0
Undisbursed                                                    __           90.2
RlATE OF EXChANGE
From October 1975 t. iough                          Outstanding inci. Undisbursed                                              117.3
Through October 1975   March 20, 1978                      Since March 20, 1978
US$ 1.00 = NRs L0.56   US$ 1.00 = NRs 12.5                 US$ 1.00 = NRs 12.00
MR  1.00 = US$ 0.095    NR  1.00 = US$  0.08               NR  1.00 = U.$  0.083
a/ Customs basis.
bI  Payments bhal
-/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable                                                                                                        South Asia Programs Department
Sept. 12, 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                     Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose             IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                         7.1
373         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   6.0      1.2
397         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5          3.7
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                 11.8     4.6
505         1975     Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                   6.0      5.2
600         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric ib         26.0    16.3
617         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development            8.0      6.9
654         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                  9.0      5.9
659         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance         3.0      2.4
704         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage              8.0     7.6
705         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0      3.9
730         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway              17.0    15.1
772         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education          5.7      5.6
799         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5    14.5
812         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  30.0    29.9
856         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  14.0    14.0
Total Outstanding                          175.6
Total Undisbursed                                   136.8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of April 30, 1979)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year         Obligor        Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel          Hotel                       2.70   0.43       3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.70   0.43       3.13
Total Undisbursed                                  -    0.10      0.10
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Supplemental credit (US$14.8 million) approved May 10, 1979, but not
yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Cred4t of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, in field surveys and in
procurement. Civil works are progressing satisfactorily in the surface irri-
gation blocks. Construction of tubewells is almost completed in the ground-
water areas. Irrigation operations started in 1976 from nine tubewells, and
in 1977, in the first surface irrigation block. The project completion may
be delayed t:o mid-1980.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
early 1980, some twelve months behind schedule.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Design work is complete and all major contracts have been let.
Project implementation is about two years behind the original schedule,
primarily dlue to delays in letting the contracts. A management team provided
by the United Kingdom is assisting the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work
is progressing satisfactorily.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind
schedule, has improved slightly over the last 12 months and 600 families have
been settled. Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical assist-
ance is being obtained to speed up the operation. Stress has also been laid
on the need for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better man-
agement and planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use policy,
the Government is requesting reduction of project area to be newly settled
from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha. If progress continues to be unsatisfactory,
restructuring or discontinuation of this project may have to be considered
both by the Government and the Association.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the recent
appreciation of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of
equipment and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar
cost of the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover
the most part of the foreign exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental
credit of US$14.8 million and an EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million
equivalent were approved by the Executive Directors on May 10, 1979.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
General progress has been satisfactory. With some exceptions, im-
plementation is either ahead of schedule or as forecast at appraisal. Track
and trail improvement has lagged owing to shortages of labor during the con-
struction season. Furthermore, shortages of well-trained staff and lack of
seed of improved varieties have contributed to a slow rate of improvement in
agricultural production. Nevertheless, considerable increases in potato
production have occurred at higher elevations and the establishment of four
small cheese/butter plants increased cash returns to livestock keeping. As
a result of recent staff changes at the regional level, the agricultural
program is now expected to gain momentum. Despite frequent transfers and



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
failure to fill a number of posts (particularly in health and agriculture),
district staff are now acquainted with the project and display considerable
keenness and initiative. Production of the annual district development plan
has insured local participation and there is a marked increase in the confi-
dence of local people toward t:he ability of Government to implement programs.
Interministerial coordination has been good and the Project Coordinator
effective in ensuring funding and providing support for district staff.
Reporting of progress has been satisfactory. Disbursement is 85% of estimates
(the discrepancy being due to savings in building costs and failure to meet
expected development of tracks and trails), but procurement has been cumber-
some due to unfamiliarity with procedures.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project authorities have been established, the main consulting
firm has been appointed and has started work, and equipment procurement has
been started. Drilling of tubewells is in progress, initially using two rigs
loaned by the Department of Groundwater Development. Twenty-two production
wells have been completed out of the 63 to be provided under the project.
Construction contracts for 33 other wells have been awarded. However, there
is little progress with construction of transmission lines. Overall progress
is slow and project completion may be delayed by one year.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Terms of reference and draft consultants' contracts for some
priority projects to be financed under the Credit have been made and others
are being discussed with the Government. Studies are in progress for river
control for the Sunsari-Morcng Irrigation Project, national agricultural
extension, and cottage industries. Arrangements for initiating additional
studies are being made, while the selection of other priority projects is
underway.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and feasibility studies,
master plan updating, and final designs have been completed. A tariff spe-
cialist is being recruited, and the first contract for water meters has
been awarded.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor took up his post in February
and the ODM-financed accounting and information systems advisor is being
selected. To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA.
Progress in implementation of the credit has improved, but disbursement
have continued to lag due to difficulties in providing documentation sup-
porting the foreign exchange content of civil works and building constructing
on subloans. Section 2.03 (a) of the DCA was amended in February 1979 to
allow for disbursement against 60% of the costs of such items, in addition
to the usual foreign exchange cost of goods and services (machinery and
equipment) for which documentation is available.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is about 10-12 months behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training Program
is under review by the Government and the Association. Seven of ten con-
tracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and three
contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise Road.
Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction are
expected to be finalized shortly.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made - a project
implementation unit has been established, a physical implementation plan
and equipment lists have been prepared, and bids for civil works an being
evaluated. A team of educational experts, financed by ODM, have begun work
in the field and a program of cooperation with Paisley College of Technology,
Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.0 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
ODM is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Moraing Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Project Board has been established and the Project Manager,
Senior Agrizultural Officer, and Consultants have been appointed. Studies
for major canal structural repairs, sediment control and river training are
under way. Procurement has commenced for priority works.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ihe contract for project consultants under Stage I (Nippon Koei)
has been extended to cover Stage II. Contracts for two of the six surface
irrigation blocks have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining civil
works and for equipment is being initiated. Satisfactory progress is being
made.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
15 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Agricultural Projects Service Center of Nepal,
with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
March 1977
April 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 29, 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 18, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1979
Section II    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) Detailed proposals for agricultural training would
be submitted to the Association for comment by
December 31, 1980 (para 46);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) DDC would carry out a study of methods to improve
production and marketing of ghee by December 31,
1980 (para 46);
(c) DCVI initiate the study to improve cottage indus-
tries in the project area by December 31, 1980
(para 46);
(d)  the Government had established the Zonal Coordinating
Committee and appointed the Project Coordinator
(condition of effectiveness, para 40);
(e)  the Government had entered into arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, to carry out the project
components to be implemented by AIC, ADBN, DDC
(conditions of effectiveness, para 45); and
(f) the Government had completed arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, for the retention of technical
experts (condition of effectiveness, para 47).






IBRD 14189
80'15' Sl'3}                                                80'45                         1`00                   80515                         RAY-                           83045                                        MAR00C MARH  -70
NEPAL                                                                 *-,   /                                                                                                            X  .o
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  /                                                                          N                                                                                                                    >1
MAHAKALI  HILLS                                         (                             81
ADMINISTRATIVE CENTERS AND SUB-CENTERS                                                                                                   HEALTH FACILITIES                                      /                                     /
* A HI [ STRATIVE CENTERS                                                                          /                                 D STR CT IOSP TALS                           /
-22 O,            ACMINISTRATIVE TR -CFNTERS 0/                                                                                                   HEALTHPOSTS Y0 /
NPOJACT H'AF.OUARTIRY
$  VETERINARY I CSPI-Al 4So5/ 
o  COTTAGE  NDU5TRY 5St-CENIE           Rr,Ib A
IAA (:                                               '                                                             10[                         
D  A   R  C  H(U  L A,                                                                                              D  A   R  C  H@U  L  A,
KARCHIL A                                                                                                                  (AHULA
R%~~~4AC'u 6->                                              /                                                                         ARCoLL ---I  .                             -
/- . ~~~C   \s4gze                     ,                         h2oodtnphM    q                                                            ) oSontri  K  +u    s -/                f/'~lant am - 9
, GLah ulesj~~~~~~~~ /                                                                                                                                                                             KJ'>Rtahu3=  
2-45                                                                                                                                             l                                                              /om
to\    i  _     ok orps n --                                                                                        'N o,  ,        OAFaO leLA               ' 
(~~ ~ ~~~~~                                                         > )0,au   Oi               <_        
tA~~~~~~ 7'ba sx yL'  e0  A3\                                                                                                                                    ThaaOSA A,
0~~~0
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                    JAr                          --   hoot3ew   -                      0 3PaaudaXX -        10
Dt-.~~~~A                    }IAO    C)                                 J                 51 D2 >0                    S                           ATt.AD>5 r
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~l -                                                           -"_7 LMIPS\F YA/    oBo leia /1 1a  4
,-F-f                                                                                                                      AD~~5 AAA
'-.7            )     '           >            %                               onr lrD.                                        es,VMvD09    'Ml,llinhnFEfhWr'  A'.zn, >ThAO,1EOAO,1
z<t.    B A N CA A N                     I                                                                                          B RK  A  I CT  A   D  IPUR0
R rol                    C~~~~~~~k                                                                                         rI 
29111                                                      AN//A
D A NDE LD  H U RA                     D- YIRTCF HEAI)OLUARTERS                                         (         D A ND E LDH  U)R A/                                            /"-
F          -----C~~~~~ONYT ROANDAREFS                                                         (OI  h "AIA 
Ar'                                                                                               H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HHK   ~~~~~~~~I'qht        IT                 '     HUTA
E     7-                      ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARlIES                                                -2-                           V                            7'L
y  ~ ~ 2D 25                                                                                                                       ',1AIRF5  /  -
R LOMETERS                                          -4\.                                                      ck~ToY             -
KANCHAN  P U  R                                                                                           K A  N  C H A N  P U R
'15'  3-51                        RI.W                  80- 15'                                                        K-45'                           b, RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






, t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 14190
dO l S S0 ~~~9~30                             80'45<,S'o SD                         1     -'                 SD30'                                 BO>1S                       V mA
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   X,F>A 
MAHAKALI HILLS                                                            \                                                                               hwl.l  
arP  'S                                                               zv                 .,       .  \~~~~~~
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                                                                          IMPROVEMENTS TO COMMUNICATIONS f 
A DETA LED SURVEY COMPLETED                  .                                              -PRCPOSED I RAIL IMiPROVEMENT                           J-
-30'CD' A ~~~RECONNAISSAN-E                                                                                      PRO)P'.)SED SUSPEN,'ION  hRIDCES  /3'
>>.,oA S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING IRAILS t'p- 
j          ~~~~~D  A  R C  H  U L A                                                               ,,,-D AR C  H ~U L 9A,                       
_4DARCHULA        //                  /                                                                     "                      -(   
~    -2\{<<u h>  '45/ 
_>,~~~~~~~~~)                                                                                        k   h      i,l\ T  ''        94
j   >       \          G c k u e s w < /   $ ' - t J     <    , J r                                                   WJ           i   -     w     '  -     , S    k r  r~~~~~c
-29,30           oa      q           B   A      I  T  A   D  I       \E        <,                                           rs               SwLwt                              v     <29'3C-~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                                 J ;  ?       
D A  N  D E L D H U R A |                         sD STR CT HEADQUARIERS                       }'D      DFr D H U.,~R A.-t o                       221                  '        HINA
bs?   X 2    2   X       /     >         =  =zt9~~~~~~~~~~~~~B O5UNDAFIES           gt          - oO1    anKi            '    RwVhECS-                                       ......TA
9onTv> 3f / ~~~~~~~ - - ~NTERNATIONA1 BOUNDARIES t)Z><t / ~z 7 t-
_/   -%   b  S  ,  -2)  / < ~ < O lulJ- t I N L A /4f 3 9~R VERS
K A N C H A N P U R 30r,M .Ut.83YlStshdl?Wtb{SsdOld*   -Xw .. 
29 00'                                                                    --Z  -> S m ea.Es a l M ynfhmewT     O          ,-      lTRa5                                                            i It K



