CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 939 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 9, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 939 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1979, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PDCCC" means the Panchayat Development Central Coordi-
nation Committee, established and operating pursuant to the
Integrated Panchayat Development Decision of the Borrower, dated
November 26, 1978 and vested with overall responsibility for
coordination of planning and implementation of rural develop-
ment projects within the Borrower's territory;
(b) "ZCC" means the Zonal Coordinating Committee to be
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement;
(c) "Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator
to be appointed pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank of
Nepal, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Agricultural Development Act, 1967, as amended, or any successor
thereto;
(e) "DDC" means the Dairy Development Corporation, estab-
lished and operating pursuant to the BDrrower's Corporation
Act, 1964, as amended, or any successor thezeto;


﻿-2-
(f) "AIC" means the Agricultural Inputs Corporation, estab-
lished and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Corporation
Act, 1964, as amended, or any successor thereto;
(g) "Project Area" means the area comprising the Dandeld-
hura, Baitadi and Darchula Districts of the Mahakali Zone; and
(h) "Project Staff" means the staff to be employed pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths *of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1989, and ending
March 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
t-nformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engi-
neering, financial, public health and educational prat-tices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) enter into all such arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, as shall be necessary to
ensure the proper carrying out of the Parts of the
Project specified herein as follows: (A) with
AIC with respect to Part A (1) of the Project, (B)
with ADBN with respect to Parts A (2) (a) and (b)
and L (6) of the Project, and (C) with DDC with
respect to Part B (4) of the Project, and shall
provide the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in
respect of said Parts to AIC, ADBN and DDC, respec-
tively;
(ii)   take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to cause and enable AIC, ADBN
and DDC, respectively, to perform their activities
under the Project in accordance with the arrange-
ments referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and


﻿-4-
(iii) employ, promptly as and when needed, all such
additional staff satisfactory to the Association,
in such capacities and numbers and with such
qualifications as shall be required for the timely
and efficient carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the ma-ters
set forth below, the Borrower shall employ the following experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a) a rural development specialist, to function as an
assistant to the Project Coordinator and to assist in Project
planning, budgeting, and implementation and in establishing
systems for Project disbursements, accounting and monitoring;
(b) a civil engineer, to assist in the planning, design
and implementation of work programs for buildings, bridges,
and trail improvement and the construction of hill terrace irri-
gation under the Project;
(c) a socio-economist, to assist in the establishment and
implementation of policies and procedures for monitoring the
progress of the Project and for evaluating its socio-economic
impact on farmers and analyzing the data collected thereunder;
and
(d) a training and communications officer, to assist in
carrying out the training of staff and farmers under the Project
and in developing programs for promoting effective communication
among those participating in the carrying out of the Project
or any Part thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to facilitate the p oper carrying
out of the Project and except as the Borrower and the Association
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) maintain PDCCC in accordance with the Integrated
Panchayat Development Decision referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of
this Agreement;
(b) appoint a full-time Project Coordinator with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) establish and thereafter maintain a Zonal Coordinating
Committee (ZCC) to coordinate Project implementation and monitor


﻿-5'-
its progress. ZCC's membership shall include the Zonal Commis-
sioner as Chairman, the Project Coordinator as Member-Secretary,
and representatives from the Ministry of Works and Transport,
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation, Ministry of
Forestry, Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Ministry of Land
Reform, Ministry of Health, the District Panchayat Chairmen of
Dandeldhura, Baitadi and Darchula Districts, the Chief District
Officers of Dandeldhura, Baitadi and Darchula Districts, the
District Chairmen of the Back-to-Village National Campaign
Committee and representatives from ADBN and AIC.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable, and cause AIC, ADBN and DDC to permit, the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish, or cause to be fur-
nished, to the Association at regular intervals not exceeding six
months each all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
eve.L not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish, or
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by September 15 of each
year beginning with September 15, 1980, prepare and furnish, or
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Association the annual
development plans, including budgetary allocations therefor, for
Dandeldhura, Baitadi, and Darchula Districts and shall ensure that
such plans are in conformity with the requirements of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that staff selected
for the training under Part L (5) of the Project shall undertake
to serve in the Project Area for at least two years pursuant to
their return at the conclusion of their training.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall levy and collect water
charges for the Irrigation Development under Part C (1) of the
Project at levels to be determined in consultation with the
Association. To this end, the Borrower shall submit proposals as
to the amount and method of collection of such charges to the
Association by June 30, 1984, or such later date as the Associa-
tion may agree.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1980 (i) prepare and furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, a detailed proposal for


﻿-7-
the carrying out of the training program under Part A (4) (e) of
the Project, (ii) initiate the carrying out of the study under
Part L (1) of the Project, and (iii) cause DDC to complete the
study under Part B (4) (a) of the Project; and
(b) by June 30, 1980, finalize and communicate its decision
to the Association with respect to the moving of the Evangelical
Hospital of Pokhara as indicated in Part D (2) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of AIC, ADBN and DDC and the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures under Cate-
gories (1) (a), (3) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section: (i) for each
fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accep-
table to the Association; (ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than twelve months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said records and accounts for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a


﻿-8-
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit t 'reof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all trails and bridges
in the Project Area and all works and buildings constructed
under the Project to be maintained or repaired in accordance with
appropriate engineering standards and shall cause to be provided,
as and when required, the funds, facilities and services for
this purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has entered into the arrangements referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower has made arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, for the employment of the experts referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower has appointed the Project Coordinator
and established the Zonal Coordination Committee pursuant to
Section 3.03 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date November 7, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                      Telex:
ARTHA                              249 NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Padma Bahadur Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                   90% of local
expenditures
(a) by force account         5,000,000
and contracts
estimated to cost
the equivalent of
$5,000 or less
each
(b) by other contracts         500,000
(2) Goods:                        1,750,000
(a) directly imported                         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manu-                             100% of local
factured                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                          90%
(off-the-shelf)
(3) Provision of Credit             350,000        90% of the
under Parts A (2) (a)                         amounts of
and L (6) of the                              sub-loans
Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Training and                   400,000         100%
consultants'
services
(5) Project staff                2,000,000         90%
salaries and
allowances
(6) Unallocated                  1,000,000
TOTAL        11,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be di71-ursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the terri ory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4,   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other experdi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program over a five-
year period to provide for the intensive development of the
Project Area and to increase the incomes and living standards of
the approximately 53,000 families residing therein. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Agricultural Development
(1) Crop Seed Improvement and Input Storage
(a) Carrying out of (i) a program to encourage farmers
to improve seed storage and to clean and grade
existing varieties; and (ii) a program of seed
exchange and multiplication to introduce improved
seed varieties.
(b) Strengthening the staff and facilities of AIC.
(2) Agricultural Credit
(a) Provision of incremental annual credit by ADBN
through sub-loans to farmers in the Project Area,
directly and through cooperative societies, to
cover the needs for production credit under the
seed exchange and multiplication program under
Part A (1) (a) (ii) of the Project and to meet the
fertilizer and plant protection requirements of all
irrigated land in the Project Area.
(b) Construction, equipping and furnishing of about
three district offices to supplement existing
facilities of ADBN in the Project Area.
(c) Establishment of about 22 cooperative societies,
including the provision of staff quarters,
offices, warehouses, and staff.
(d) Construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing
of about three offices for the Cooperative Depart-
ment of the Borrower's Ministry of Land Reform to
enable said Department to supervise and audit the


﻿- 14 -
cooperative societies referred to in Part A (2) (c)
of the Project to ensure the speedy and efficient
implementation of Part A (2) (a) of the Project.
(3) Horticultural Development
(a) Carrying out of a program of horticultural devel-
opment, including the supply of fruit trees and
vegetable seed to farmers in the Project Area.
(b) Expansion of the facilities at the horticultural
farm at Satbanj in the Baitadi District.
(4) Agricultural Extension
(a) Carrying out of a program of agricultural extension
designed to encourage widespread adoption of
measures for raising agricultural production
in the Project Area.
(b) Construction, equipping and furnishing of about
22 service centers in the Project Area, including
the provision of office buildings, cooperative
offices and stores, community halls and post
offices.
(c) Construction, equipping and furnishing of addi-
tional facilities at each District Administrative
Headquarters of the Districts of Dandeldhura,
Baitadi and Darchula.
(d) Provision of qualified agricultural extension
staff for the service centers and the facilities
referred to in Part A (4) (b) and (c) of the
Project.
(e) Carrying out of a training program for the training
of the agricultural extension staff referred to
in Part A (4) (d) of the Project.
Part B:   Livestock Development
(1) Veterinary Dispensaries
(a) Construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing
of a veterinary dispensary at the service centers
referred to in Part A (4) (b) of the Project.


﻿- 15 -
(b) Rehabilitation of the veterinary hospital at
Patan, in Baitadi District.
(c) Construction of about three sheep dipping tanks.
(2) Livestock Disease Control and Upgrading of Livestock
Carrying out of a program for the upgrading of livestock
and for the innoculation and dosing of sheep and goats.
(3) Livestock Extension
(a) Construction of staff housing for and the esta-
blishment and staffing of a district extension
organization in each of Dandeldhura, Baitadi
and Darchula Districts to be responsible for
carrying out the programs under Part B (3) (b)
of the Project.
(b) Carrying out of: (i) a livestock extension program;
and (ii) a program for the training of extension
staff and the holding of field demonstrations for
farmers.
(4) Ghee Production and Marketing
(a) Carrying out, by DDC, of a study to determine
the most suitable means for improving the produc-
tion and marketing of ghee.
(b) Carrying out, by DDC, of a pilot program for
improving ghee production and marketing based on
the results and recommendations of the study
referred to in Part B (4) (a) of the Project.
Part C:   Irrigation Development
(1) Development of about 700 hectares of gravity-fed
irrigation schemes in valleys and lower terraces,
including diversion structures on larger tributa-
ries and streams.
(2) Improvement of hill terrace irrigation on about
700 hectares using water from perennial and sea-
sonal streams.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Health Services
(1) Construction and upgrading of two 15-bed hospi-
tals in Baitadi and Darchula Districts, and of
twenty-five health posts in the Project Area.
(2) Construction of a new 15-bed hospital, including
facilities for the accommodation of in-patients,
at Dandeldhura in Dandeldhura District; provided,
however, that said hospital shall not be construc-
ted under the Project if the Borrower decides to
move the Evangelical Mission Hospital of Pokhara in
Dandeldhura District to Dandeldhura and to transfer
jurisdiction over said hospital to its Ministry of
Health.
(3) Construction of three district health offices,
including staff housing therefor.
(4) Provision of drugs, surgical and medical equipment
and staff for the hospitals and health posts
referred to in Part D (1) through (3) of the
Project.
Part E:  Educational Facilities
Upgrading of about 110 lower-secondary and about 15
secondary schools in the Project Area through the
provision of improved buildings for classroom instruc-
tion and libraries and additional hostels, teaching aids
and materials and incremental mathematics and science
teachers.
Part F:   Panchayat Development
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a multi-
purpose village Panchayat community center, includ-
ing offices and staff housing at each of the
service centers referred to in Part A (4) (b) of
the Project.
(2) Carrying out of a program for the training, at
the training center referred to in Part M (2)
of the Project, of Project staff, officials
and members of the village Panchayat, in Project
related activities.


﻿- 17 -
(3) Provision of appropriate support for the staff
of the Chief District Officer's offices in Dandeld-
hura, Baitadi and Darchula Districts in the prepa-
ration and maintenance of Project accounts.
Part G:   Distr,-,t Technical Offices
(1) Strengthening the facilities and staff of existing
District Technical Offices in Dandeldhura, Baitadi
and Darchula Districts, including the provision of
offices, storage facilities, accommodation blocks,
equipment and staff and horses for staff transpor-
tation.
(2) Establishment and staffing of a technical support
unit under the Project Coordinator to provide
training, technical inputs and support for the
staff of the District Technical Offices.
(3) Establishing and equipping of a meteorological
station in Baitadi District.
(4) Carrying out of a program for the technical train-
ing of local technicians in the Project Area.
Part H:   Village Water Supplies
(1) Construction of headquarter offices, including
staff housing and storage facilities, for the Local
Development Department of the Borrower's Ministry
of Home Panchayat responsible for supervising
the carrying out of Part R of the Project.
(2) Rehabilitation of about 225 wells.
(3) Provision of training for village level techni-
cians in construction, supervision and maintenance
of village water supply schemes.
Part I:   Soil Erosion
(1) Establishment of a Divisional Erosion Control
Office within the Borrower's Ministry of Forests.
(2) Carrying out of soil erosion control programs,
including control measures, as necessary, to


﻿- 18 -
protect the irrigation works referred to in Part
C of the Project.
(3) Provision of training for farmers in erosion
control principles and practices.
Part J:  Development of Trails
(1) Improvement of about 250 km of major trails and
about 340 km of minor trails.
(2) Construction of about 128 timber bridges and about
19 suspension bridges.
(3) Carrying out of a trail and bridge maintenance
program.
Part K:   Postal Services:
(1) Provision of furniture and fittings for about
19 existing post offices in the Project Area.
(2) Construction, furnishing and staffing of an extra-
departmental post office at each of the service
centers referred to in Part A (4) (b) of the
Project.
(3) Construction of about 50 small relay stations.
Part L:   Cottage Industries
(1) Carrying out of a study on the cotton, metal,
wood and leather goods cottage industries in
the Project Areas and the measures required to
support and develop said industries.
(2) Construction, including office space, training
facilities, storage and staff housing, equipping
and staffing of a district cottage industry center
in each of Dandeldhura, Baitadi and Darchula
Districts, and the provision of staff for the
Darchula District.


﻿- 19 -
(3) Construction and equipping of about two buildings
in Darchula District to be utilized for the train-
ing of residents in the Project Area in wool-based
cc-.tage industries.
(4) Upgrading the existing Kanchanpur District's branch
office of the Cottage Industries and Handicrafts
Emporium of the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and
Commerce.
(5) Provision of foreign training for about 4 district
staff in cottage industries.
(6) Provision of credit by ADBN through sub-loans
to cottage industries' workers in the Project Area
for the purchase and utilization of equipment,
tools and raw materials.
Part M:   Project Headquarters and a Multipurpose Training Center
(1) Construction and equipping of Project headquarters
at Patan in Baitadi District, including the provi-
sion of water and electricity supplies therefor.
(2) Construction and equipping of a multipurpose
training center at Patan in Baitadi District.
Part N:   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(1) Provision of appropriate support for the socio-
economic program established pursuant to Section
3.13 of the Development Credit Agreement (Rural
Development Project) between the Borrower and the
Association, dated April 30, 1976, including staff,
staff training and management and technical support
as required to assist the Borrower in monitoring
the progress of the Project and evaluating its
socio-economic impact on residents in the Project
Area and in preparing the reports and the other
information referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement.
(2) Carrying out of feasibility studies for a future
rural or agricultural development project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1984.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C1 hereof, goods shall be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement
of goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in acccrdance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Scheduie, goods manufactured in
Kingdom of Nepal may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the followin6 provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and trie following methods and stages that will
be followed in the ev3luation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in f)ne of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: Dids offering goods manufactured in
Kingdcrn of Nepal if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Kingdom of Nepal
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid pricL
of such gocs.
"2) G-our, B: ;;ll other domestic bids.
(3,  -roup    bids offering any other goods.
3.  .All ev-1luated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, -xcluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all gro,- C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the gcods offered in such


﻿- 22 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1 above, contracts
for goods which the Association agrees cannot be grouped in
accordance with Part A.3 above and which are estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $100,000 each, may be procured in
accordance with applicable procurement procedures of the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part C (1) of the Project
shall be procured on the basis of locally advertised competi.tive
bidding in accordance with applicable procurement procedures
of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other


﻿- 23 -
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works, except those referred to in Part B.2 above,
shall be carried out by the Borrower through force account under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.


