                                          Document of
                                     The World Bank
                            International Development Association



                                                                    Report No:ICR2972



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H1700 IDA-H6250)



                                            ON A

                                           GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.6 MILLION
                            (US$ 22.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                          FOR THE

   BUMBUNA HYDROELECTRIC ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
                            PROJECT



                                         July 30, 2014




Energy and Extractives Global Practice
Country Department , AFCW1
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 2, 2013)

                   Currency Unit: Sierra Leonean Leones (SLL)
                            US$1.00 = SLL4,416.96
                               US$1.53 = SDR1

                     FISCAL YEAR: January 1 – December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
BCA      Bumbuna Conservation Area
BEST     Business Engineering Science and Technology
BHC      Bumbuna Hydropower Company
BHD      Bumbuna Hydroelectric Dam
BHESMP   Bumbuna Hydroelectric Environmental and Social Management Project
BHP      Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project (official acronym used by GoSL)
BPIU     Bumbuna Project Implementation Unit
BTC      Bumbuna Trust Company
BT       Bumbuna Trust
BWMA     Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority
BWMP     Bumbuna Watershed Management Plan
CAP      Community Action Plan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBHP     Completion of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project – Initial Scope of the Project
CDGP     Community Development Growth Poles
CSO      Civil Society Organization
CUC      Community User Committee
DfID     Department for International Development
DGA      Development Grant Agreement
DSC      Dam Safety Committee
DSRP     Dam Safety Review Panel
EA       Environmental Assessment
EAU      Emergency Action Unit
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EPP      Emergency Preparedness Plan
ESAP     Environmental and Social Advisory Panel
ESMP     Environmental and Social Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FFS      Farmer Field Schools
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GoSL     Government of Sierra Leone



                                         ii
GWh       Giga Watt Hour
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
INT       Integrity Vice-Presidency (of the World Bank)
ISR       Implementation Status Report
JSDF      Japan Social Development Fund
KPI       Key Performance Indicators
LAIR      Livelihood Assessment and Income Restoration Program
LMNP      Loma Mountains National Park
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
masl      meters above sea level
MoAFS     Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Forestry
MoLCPE    Ministry of Land, Country Planning and Environment
MoEP      Ministry of Energy and Power
MoEWR     Ministry of Energy and Water Resources
MoFED     Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoU       Memorandum of Understanding
MTR       Mid-Term Review
MW        Mega Watts
NaCSA     National Commission for Social Action
NPA       National Power Authority
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
OREINT    Organization for Research and Extension of Intermediate Technology
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAP       Project Affected Persons
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMU       Project Management Unit
PPA       Power Purchase Agreement
PPP       Public-Private Partnership
PRG       Partial Risk Guarantee
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PWP       Power and Water Project
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
ROW       Right of Way
Salcost   Salini Costruttori – the Italian Main Contractor
SAP       Stabilized Agriculture Program
SRBDA     Seli River Basin Development Authority
T-line    Transmission Line
ToR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USCDI     Upper Seli Community Development Initiative
XDR       Special Drawing Rights




                                         iii
         Vice President:    Makhtar Diop
Senior Practice Director    Anita Marangoly George
                Director    Charles M. Feinstein
      Country Director:     Yusupha B. Crookes
      Practice Manager:     Meike van Ginneken
  Project Team Leader:      Syed Waqar Haider
     ICR Team Leader:       John Mason Denton




                       iv
                                            REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

              Bumbuna Hydroelectric Environmental and Social Management Project


                                                            CONTENTS

DATA SHEET
A.        Basic Information
B.        Key Dates
C.        Ratings Summary
D.        Sector and Theme Codes
E.        Bank Staff
F.        Results Framework Analysis
G.        Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H.        Restructuring (if any)
I.        Disbursement Profile
1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................... 1
2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................... 6
3.        Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................. 14
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................. 24
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................. 24
6.        Lessons Learned................................................................................................................ 27
7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................... 28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 31
Annex 3: Results framework – Original Project ........................................................................... 35
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................ 38
Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 41
Annex 6: MAP .............................................................................................................................. 44




                                                                      v
vi
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                     SL Bumbuna
                                                                     Hydroelectric
Country:               Sierra Leone            Project Name:         Environmental and
                                                                     Social Management
                                                                     project
                                                                     IDA-H1700, IDA-
Project ID:            P086801                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     H6250
ICR Date:              07/31/2014              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                     SIERRA LEONE
Original Total
                      SDR8.30M                Disbursed Amount:   SDR13.21M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       SDR13.21M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process         Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/31/2003     Effectiveness:        10/26/2005       12/19/2006
                                                                             06/26/2008
                                                                             07/24/2009
                                                                             12/30/2009
Appraisal:             05/09/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                             06/25/2010
                                                                             09/28/2010
                                                                             09/20/2012
Approval:              06/16/2005     Mid-term Review:      03/01/2009       03/01/2009
                                      Closing:              08/31/2009       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory



                                              vii
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:           Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:          Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                                   None
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                         Yes                                   None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                        73                  73
General education sector                                  3                   3
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector     3                   3
Other social services                                    20                  20
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                  1                   1



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                        14                 14
Environmental policies and institutions                    14                 14
Other social development                                   29                 29
Other social protection and risk management                14                 14
Pollution management and environmental health              29                 29




                                              viii
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                        Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:            Yusupha B. Crookes                  Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:              Meike van Ginneken                  Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:         Syed Waqar Haider                   Donal T. O'Leary
ICR Team Leader:             Syed Waqar Haider
ICR Primary Author:          John Mason Denton

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is "to increase the supply of electricity services at least-cost in an
efficient and environmentally and socially sustainable manner”.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised objective is "to assist the recipient in satisfactorily addressing and mitigating the
environmental and social impacts in the Project Area associated with the completion and initial
operation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam and transmission line."

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                   Project Affected Persons (PAPs) claims related to the transmission line
Indicator 1 :
                   addressed.
Value
(quantitative or   0%                        100%                                 100%
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/28/2010                09/30/2012                           06/30/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. All claims have been addressed, barring those PAPs who are not
(incl. %
                   contactable.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      PAPs around the dam and reservoir area are resettled and compensated.
Value
(quantitative or   0%                        100%                                 100%
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/28/2010                09/30/2012                           06/30/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. Compensation payments have been completed (barring few cases
(incl. %
                   where the PAPs are not contactable), and PAPs have been resettled.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      PAPs with livelihoods restored to same level as pre-project.

                                                  ix
Value
(quantitative or   0%                        100%                               100%
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/28/2010                09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. Livelihood Restoration Programs are completed, and socio-economic
(incl. %
                   surveys indicate that PAPs are better off after the project implementation.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority (BWMA) fulfills its key functions.
Value
(quantitative or   0                         25                                 15
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/28/2010                 09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
                   Substantially achieved. The indicator uses a composite scoring with a possible
                   maximum score of 25 points, based on the agreed indicators for implementation
Comments
                   effectiveness:( i) completion of the Revised Dam/Reservoir RAP (10 points); (ii)
(incl. %
                   water quality monitoring undertaken regularly (5 points); (iii) water borne
achievement)
                   disease monitoring program in place (5 points); and (iv) management of the
                   conservation area (5 points).
Indicator 5 :      Loma Mountains National Park (LMNP) established and operational.
Value
(quantitative or   No                        Yes                                Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/28/2010                09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. Loma Mountain National Park has been proclaimed as a National
(incl. %
                   Park and is operational.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Direct Project Beneficiaries (number) of which female (%).
Value
(quantitative or   0%                        50%                                51%
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/28/2010                09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %           51% female beneficiaries have benefited in LAIR and SAP.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally            Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised             Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target             Completion or
                                             documents)        Values             Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Revised 161kV Transmission line RAP implemented.
Value
                   No                        Yes                                Yes
(quantitative


                                                   x
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2010               09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments
                  Achieved. RAP is fully implemented and a Completion Report has been
(incl. %
                  prepared.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Amount of replacement land provided (in ha).
Value
(quantitative     0.00                     198.00                           198.00
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2010               09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     RAP implemented in accordance with schedule.
Value
(quantitative     No                       Yes                              Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2010               09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Completion of the Stabilized Agriculture Program (SAP).
Value
(quantitative     No                       Yes                              Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2010               09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Completion of the Livelihood Assistance and Income Restoration Programs.
Value
(quantitative     No                       Yes                              Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2011               09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Legal Act passed to create BWMA and Bumbuna Conservation Area (BCA).
Value
(quantitative     No                       Yes                              Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2011               09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments
                  Achieved.
(incl. %

                                                 xi
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Bumbuna Watershed Management Plan developed and adopted.
Value
(quantitative     No                      Yes                               Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved     09/28/2010              09/30/2012                        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
                  Sustainable Financing Mechanism in place for BWMA and Loma Mountains
Indicator 8 :
                  National Park.
Value
(quantitative No                          Yes                                No
or qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2011                  09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
                Not Achieved. While arrangements have been put in place to finance the
Comments
                BWMA and LMNP from revenues from the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
(incl. %
                between Bumbuna project and National Power Authority (NPA), funds are not
achievement)
                being allocated as envisaged.
Indicator 9 : BWMA regularly reports on state of environment in watershed.
Value
(quantitative No                          Yes                                Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2010                  09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Draft Loma Mountain National Park Management Plan prepared.
Value
(quantitative No                          Yes                                Yes
or qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2010                  09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved. LMNP Management Plan prepared and disclosed.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Provisional warning system downstream installed.
Value
(quantitative No                          Yes                                No
or qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2010                  09/30/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments        Partially achieved. Most civil works have been completed, all siren equipment is
(incl. %        in the country and some of it has been installed. However, the sirens’ warning
achievement) system is not operational.


                                                xii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                           Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    11/16/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   0.00
  2    06/30/2006    Moderately Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                  0.00
  3    12/28/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            0.00
                          Moderately              Moderately
  4    06/26/2007                                                               4.16
                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                                                  Moderately
  5    12/20/2007    Moderately Satisfactory                                    5.26
                                                Unsatisfactory
                                                  Moderately
  6    06/02/2008    Moderately Satisfactory                                    8.06
                                                Unsatisfactory
  7    06/28/2008        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            8.45
  8    12/23/2008        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            9.67
                          Moderately
  9    06/29/2009                               Unsatisfactory                 10.14
                        Unsatisfactory
 10    12/15/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           11.32
 11    06/18/2010    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           11.66
 12    06/07/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           14.34
 13    11/03/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           14.62
 14    01/01/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           14.96
 15    04/21/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           15.13
 16    08/30/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           15.94
 17    12/01/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           17.46
                          Moderately
 18    03/25/2013                            Moderately Satisfactory           18.73
                        Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately              Moderately
 19    06/07/2013                                                              19.54
                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately              Moderately
 20    04/17/2014                                                              20.46
                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at Amount
              Board
Restructuring            Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
              Approved
Date(s)                                 Restructuring Key Changes Made
              PDO Change   DO     IP
                                        in US$ millions
                                                        The restructuring amended the
                                                        grant agreement to reflect: a
                                                        revision of the Bumbuna dam
  06/26/2008        N      MS     MU          8.45
                                                        pre-impoundment conditions,
                                                        on-going provision of food
                                                        and cash support to affected

                                            xiii
                         ISR Ratings at Amount
              Board
Restructuring            Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
              Approved
Date(s)                                 Restructuring Key Changes Made
              PDO Change   DO     IP
                                        in US$ millions
                                                        persons in the Bumbuna dam
                                                        and reallocation of proceeds.
                                                        This restructuring included a
                                                        first extension of closing date
                                                        for a period of 4 months and a
  07/24/2009        N      MU     U          10.64      second reallocation among the
                                                        disbursement categories in
                                                        line with activities related to
                                                        the project
                                                        This restructuring included a
                                                        second extension of closing
                                                        date for a period of six months
                                                        in order to allow for additional
  12/30/2009        N      MS     MS         11.32      time for a level 1 restructuring
                                                        of the project and avoid delays
                                                        in disbursements due to
                                                        recovery of the advance in the
                                                        special account.
                                                        This restructuring extended
                                                        the closing date for 3 months
                                                        to allow time for completion
  06/25/2010        N      MS     MS         11.66      of the level 1 restructuring
                                                        package for the 24 months
                                                        extension which was to be
                                                        submitted to the Board.
                                                        The restructuring was
                                                        necessary to: (a) cancel the
                                                        PRG as requested by the
                                                        GoSL that had found
                                                        alternative funding to
                                                        complete the dam; and (b)
                                                        make more funds available to
                                                        finance the expanded scope of
  09/28/2010        Y      MS     MS         12.09      safeguards activities under the
                                                        restructured project, from the
                                                        resources previously allocated
                                                        to the PRG. The restructuring
                                                        entailed revising the PDO and
                                                        indicators, reallocating the
                                                        funds, and extending the
                                                        closing date for an additional
                                                        24 months.

                                          xiv
                         ISR Ratings at Amount
              Board
Restructuring            Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
              Approved
Date(s)                                 Restructuring Key Changes Made
              PDO Change   DO     IP
                                        in US$ millions
                                                        Due to delays in the
                                                        installation of the siren
                                                        warning system, restructuring
  09/20/2012        N      MS     MS         15.94      undertaken to reallocate
                                                        among expenditure categories
                                                        and extend the closing date by
                                                        9 months.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                 Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                     Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

I.   Disbursement Profile




                                            xv
xvi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.       The Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project (BHP: P086903 and P086801) was approved by the
IDA Board of Directors on July 16, 2005. The original project included a Partial Risk Guarantee
(PRG) of up to US$38.0 million from the International Development Association (IDA) to
support commercial loans to be used for completion of the civil works of the Bumbuna
Hydroelectric Dam and an IDA Grant of US$12.5 million to support the implementation of
related environmental and social safeguards and project management activities. After project
approval, the Government of Sierra Leone (GoSL) faced challenges in making the PRG effective
and thus requested that the PRG be canceled. The GoSL found alternative sources to finance the
remaining civil works. Following a restructuring in 2010, the PRG was dropped and the scope of
activities financed by the IDA Grant was revised. This Implementation Completion Report
assesses the performance of the project over the full implementation period to the closing date on
June 30, 2013 as well as the Bank and the Borrower’s performance.

1.1.   Context at Appraisal

2.     Country Background. Sierra Leone emerged from a decade long civil war in 2002
during which time the economy had contracted by roughly 40 percent, and over 70 percent of its
population was living on less than US$1 a day. The death toll from the civil war was estimated at
20,000, and over two million people were rendered homeless with roughly 500,000 people
driven into internal exile. Rehabilitation of infrastructure destroyed during the war was badly
needed to increase investment and stimulate employment and growth.

3.      Energy Sector. Lack of electricity was at that time, and even today, a serious
impediment to economic growth, particularly in the industrial and service sectors in Sierra
Leone. Postwar reconstruction required significant energy production, but less than five percent
of the population had access to electricity. Support to Bumbuna was identified as a high priority
as it would have widespread poverty alleviation impacts and would be critical to the country’s
economic recovery. Feasibility studies for the Bumbuna dam were undertaken from 1970-1985
with some Bank support. Construction of the dam began in 1986 and it was roughly 85 percent
complete, the transmission line (T-line) towers were installed, and 40 percent of the cable had
been strung when civil works were interrupted due to the civil war. When construction resumed
in 2002, about 65 percent of the 540 standing T-Line towers were damaged and half of the 80km
of cables that had been laid were missing. Every month of delay in delivery of power from
Bumbuna cost the country an estimated US$3.1 million in diesel and other fuel purchases
resulting in one of the highest costs of electricity in Africa. Together with unreliable service and
poor quality of supply, high energy tariffs in Sierra Leone translated into problems for
commercial and industrial enterprise, thus hindering the country’s growth potential.

4.      Bumbuna Hydropower Project. Construction of the Bumbuna hydropower project had
been started in the early 1990s but had to be suspended in 1997 - when the dam was complete -
due to armed conflict. As the conflict ended, the GoSL was looking for ways to finalize the
project.




                                                 1
5.      Rationale for Bank Assistance. The rationale for Bank involvement in the BHP was
fourfold: i) to act as a catalyst for resource mobilization and donor coordination; ii) to promote
public-private partnerships in developing and operating infrastructure projects; iii) to develop
customized risk mitigation instruments under the PRG to facilitate implementation of major
infrastructure projects; and iv) to ensure application of appropriate safeguards to mitigate the
impact on the population and the environment. In addition, under the power component of the
Sierra Leone Power and Water Project, the Bank was bringing its experience in supporting
power sector reform and utility enhancement programs.

6.      The Bank’s decision to support the BHP in 2005 was part of a broader effort to address
structural constraints in the electricity sector and was designed in conjunction with the Power
and Water Project approved in 2004. The PWP aimed at: i) supporting GoSL’s electricity sector
reforms; ii) upgrading and strengthening the dilapidated distribution network in Freetown; iii)
strengthening business practices; and iv) improving revenue collection by the NPA to make it
financially viable.

7.      Given the uncertain financing capacity of the sector, in part due to post-conflict
conditions, a US$38 million PRG was offered as a way to mobilize commercial financing to
complete the remaining works for the Bumbuna hydropower project, in addition to other donor
financing. The PRG could have improved financing terms of a commercial loan and thus have
lowered the tariff that NPA had to pay for electricity offtake from Bumbuna under the PPA.
This, in turn, would have helped to lower tariffs for end users.

8.       The technical assistance grant of US$12.5m was designed to finance certain project
activities not directly related to physical construction. These activities included implementation
and supervision of the Environment Management Plan (EMP); the Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) for the dam/reservoir and the transmission line (T-Line), support for the Bumbuna
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP), and the Environment
and Social Advisory Panel (ESAP); benefit sharing programs under the Upper Seli Community
Development Initiative (USCDI) and the Community Action Plan (CAP); and capacity building
for relevant ministries and agencies for sustainable implementation of the project’s safeguards
measures.

1.2.   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9.     The development objective of the project (combined PRG and Grant), as outlined in the
2005 PAD, was “to expand the capacity of Sierra Leone to increase the supply of electricity
services at least-cost, and in an efficient and environmentally and socially sustainable manner.”
However, because of the Grant’s exclusive focus on safeguards activities, the Development
Grant Agreement provided a more specific objective of these activities, namely to “assist the
Recipient in completing the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project (BHP) activities in an
environmentally and social sustainable manner through the carrying out of measures to avoid
mitigate, reduce and/or offset the adverse environmental and social impacts of the BHP in the




                                                2
Project Area, and to enhance the environmental and social benefits to be derived from the BHP
in the Project Area”. The key outcome indicators 1 were as follows:

    a. Electricity sales (GWh) increasing from 68.9 GWh in 2003 to 230 GWh in 2008;
    b. Percentage reduction of average electricity tariffs; \
    c. A bio-diversity index, to be established under the Additional Environment Studies,
       acceptable to the Association, does not decrease by the end of the Project;
    d. Sixty percent increase of the targeted watershed area under improved agricultural
       conservation practice by the end of the Project;
    e. Sustainable fishery practices in 60 percent of the reservoir and downstream of the dam;
    f. All Project Affected Persons (PAPs) resettled as per definition in OP 4.12 by the end of
       the Project;
    g. Eighty percent increase of income of involved households with new income generating
       activities (forestry, fisheries, agriculture, soap making, carpentry, etc.) by the end of the
       Project;
    h. The Bumbuna Watershed and Management Plan developed by March 1, 2007;
    i. Environmental and Social Management Unit in the Ministry of Energy and Power
       (MoEP) created and operational by December 1, 2008;
    j. Bumbuna Conservation Area established by October 31, 2006 and management plan
       adopted by March 1, 2007; and
    k. Environmental management monitoring system developed by the date of effectiveness of
       the Grant.

1.3.      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
          and Reasons/Justification

10.     The project was restructured on September 28, 2010 in response to the GoSL’s 2007
request for the cancelation of the PRG component of the project. GoSL was able to mobilize
over US$55 million in donor funding to cover the remaining costs of completing the construction
of the BHP. BHP was commissioned in 2009 and was already operational by the time of project
restructuring in 2010. Consequently, the PDO and key indicators and activities were revised to
focus on safeguard issues associated with the final stages of completion and initial operation of
the BHD and T-Line.

11.    The revised PDO is “to assist the Recipient in satisfactorily addressing and mitigating the
environmental and social impacts in the Project Area associated with the completion and initial
operation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam and transmission line”. The revised PDO indicators
were as follows:

       a. BWMA fulfills its key functions;
       b. PAP around the dam and reservoir are resettled and compensated;
       c. PAP claims related to the transmission line addressed;
1
  The key outcomes indicators listed were reflected in paragraph 2.1 of the PAD. Some vary slightly from those
reflected in the results framework in Annex 3 of the PAD.



                                                      3
      d. PAPs’ livelihoods around the dam and reservoir are restored to the same level as pre-
         project;
      e. Loma Mountains National Park established and operational; and
      f. Direct Project beneficiaries (number) of which female (%).

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

12.     The main beneficiaries of the original project were the GoSL which would be able to
mobilize private-sector financial resources, through the use of PRG, to complete BHP and
electricity consumers in Sierra Leone. The timely completion of the project and generation of
hydro-electricity was expected to benefit the domestic and commercial consumers in Sierra
Leone and the population at large. Bumbuna’s energy generation was forecast to have a positive
impact on lowering the electricity tariff, thus contributing to the country’s economic growth.
Further, the direct beneficiaries from the environment and social safeguards and the benefit
sharing programs were the upstream and downstream communities in and around the dam-site,
including households affected by the T-Line.

13.     The beneficiaries under the restructured BHP continued to be communities upstream and
downstream of the dam site and along the T-line. Further, following advice from the ESAP, the
inclusion of Loma Mountain National Park (LMNP) as an additional environmental offset for
natural habitat impacts of the project was beneficial to a larger population in Sierra Leone.
Establishment of LMNP was meant to enhance the BHP’s conservation impacts on global
biological diversity, with emphasis on preservation of key endangered species such as
chimpanzees.

1.5      Original Components

14.      Component A - Hydroelectric and Transmission Infrastructure. This component
comprised a US$38 million PRG to mobilize commercial loans to finance completion of the
BHD. The PRG was to cover a breach of payment obligations by GoSL under the Concession
Agreement and NPA’s obligations under the PPA. Only a default by GoSL or NPA that caused a
default by BHC towards the IDA guaranteed lender (exclusive of other creditors) was to be
covered. At the time of project approval in 2005, the construction of the BHD and its ancillary
facilities were 85 percent complete. The proceeds of the PRG-backed loan were, therefore, to
finance the remaining works including completion of civil works, hydraulic steel structures, the
electro-mechanical equipment, and the transmission line.

15.      Component B - Environmental Mitigation, Resettlement, Watershed Management
and Benefit Sharing. This component had three sub-components as follows: (i) environmental
management - implementation of the Environmental Management and Mitigation Plan (EMP),
leading to the efficient operation of the Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority (BWMA);
(ii) social mitigation - implementation of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for the dam, the
reservoir and surrounding areas, and the T-Line in accordance with RAP implementation
schedules; and (iii) benefit sharing - effective establishment and demonstration of the basic
institutional model for the proposed Bumbuna Trust (BT) for local resource development.



                                               4
16.    Component C - Technical Assistance. This component comprised management and
supervision of the activities under Component B; support for the PIU, the two international
panels of experts (DRSP and ESAP), the RAP Implementation Team and the Communications
Action Program. An international and national Environmental Management Technical Assistance
Team would assist the PIU in implementing the EMP, in collaboration with the Department of
the Environment and other Sierra Leonean agencies.

1.6        Revised Components

17.     With the decision to cancel the Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) as part of the project, the
project underwent a restructuring to improve its relevance. The components under the
restructured project were limited to support to environmental and social management activities,
as described in the following paragraphs.

18.    Component A - Environmental Management and Social Mitigation. This revised
component had the following key activities: (i) implementing the RAPs for the dam, reservoir
and T-Line; (ii) establishing the BWMA; (iii) establishing the LMNP (environmental offset); (iv)
implementing the Emergency Preparedness Action Plan; (v) implementing the Livelihood
Assessment and Income Restoration (LAIR) and the Stabilized Agriculture Program (SAP).

19.     Component B - Community Growth Poles. This component was added to the project
during the restructuring, and supported the implementation of energy based community growth
pole sub-projects. These subprojects covered directly affected villages, and three indirectly
affected downstream villages, as part of a community development program designed to ensure
that eligible communities around the Bumbuna reservoir area share in the benefits of the
Bumbuna hydroelectric dam in a sustainable manner. The activities under this component were
complemented by parallel funding from Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF).

20.    Component C - Technical Assistance. This component supported: (i) the PIU to ensure
continued financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation; (ii) the
independent experts panels, ESAP and the DSRP, until project close; and (iii) the update and
implementation of the Communication Strategy and Plan.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

21.     On September 20, 2012, the project underwent its final restructuring which introduced
two changes: (a) reallocation of Grant (H1700-SL) proceeds to allow for the supply, installation,
commissioning and testing of an extended siren warning system, which was not envisaged in
2010 2; and (b) extension of the Project closing date by nine months from September 30, 2012, to
June 30, 2013 to allow for the remaining activities to be completed. There was no change in the
PDOs. The revised allocation of grant resources by components is provided in Annex-1.




2
    As recommended by the DSRP during their 5th assessment mission in July 2011.


                                                         5
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     Soundness of the Background Analysis. A Bank team, with technical, financial, legal,
environmental, social, and communication skills, undertook the appraisal of the project. In
hindsight, the background analysis for the original Project was skewed towards safeguards
issues. Extensive consultations were carried out in compliance with the World Bank Safeguard
Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). On
the other hand, the appraisal of the proposed PPP structure and supporting PRG structure was not
undertaken in a very thorough manner. The financial analysis for the PRG structuring was
limited. For instance, no market testing was done to determine the likely terms of a commercial
loan in Sierra Leone. This led to an unrealistic assumption that a 15 year loan at 4.5 percent
interest could be secured – resulting in a cost of power of 8.7UScents/kWh. The Bank team also
lacked an experienced hydropower engineer. The project team revalidated a feasibility study
completed in the 1980s as a basis for technical appraisal. Also, the PAD does not include an
assessment of the adequacy of the sector policy framework as required by OP14.25.

23.     Assessment of the Project Design. The project design consisted of a US$38 million
PRG and a US$12.5 million grant. This project design was retrofitted to serve the purpose of
finalizing the construction of a mostly finished dam and complement construction with a set of
environmental and social measures to allow the hydropower project to meet international good
practice standards.

24.     The description of PDO and key indicators in the PAD notes that “the PDO assumes that
all energy generated by the BHP is sold to NPA and that NPA functions properly as described
under the Power and Water Project (PWP) (Cr. 3945-SL)” 3. Thus, the success of the project
rested on a number of policy actions to be undertaken by the GoSL under a separate project,
including the selection of a management contractor for NPA and tariff reforms.

25.     The design of the PRG component of the project was unusual and not very advanced at
time of Board presentation. The proposed PRG would cover a relatively small commercial loan
to finalize construction of remaining works. This was a non-traditional use of the instrument.
The arrangements to set up the special purpose company BHC between Salcost and GoSL were
not yet made. The 20 years concession contract between the GoSL and BHC was not yet drafted
and the PPA was not agreed at time of appraisal. The proposed concession contract was non-
traditional 4 also, as construction was not included in the contract.

26.    The relative small size of IDA support to the hydropower project and the fact that IDA
got involved in the project at a late stage provided little leverage vis-à-vis the GoSL and the
contractor/concessionaire to influence project implementation.


3
 PAD pg. 13 footnote 1.
4
 In traditional concession agreements, an entity is often allowed to operate an asset for a specified period after it is
constructed by it.


                                                           6
27.     The 2008 QAG review concluded that the project was “overly designed” in terms of
“safeguards augmentation activities.” For example, under the benefit sharing objective, the
original design proposed an inter-agency and multi-District set up that presumed the
government’s decentralization policy to be fully functional. It did not take into account potential
conflicts that eventually arose between traditional Chiefdom leaders and elected District officers.
The QAG review also highlighted the “ambitious undertakings in relation to dam safety and
environmental standards in the dam and reservoir where implementation was to occur during a
period of political uncertainty.”

28.     Adequacy of Government’s Commitment. Achieving the objectives of the BHP relied
heavily on the commitment and ability of the GoSL to undertake meaningful sector reforms, both
in terms of setting up a PPP for the management of the Bumbuna facilities as well as in the
transmission and distribution sub-sectors. Such reforms were necessary to ensure the financial
viability of BHP. However, as the subsequent discussion on implementation (2.2) points out, the
reforms were not fully implemented which had a major impact on project performance.

29.     Adequacy of Participatory Process. Extensive consultations were carried out, and a
three-step process in stakeholder interactions on safeguard studies-at the national, district and
village levels in 2000 and 2005- was adopted as follows: (i) introduction of the purpose of the
studies and eliciting concerns; (ii) active involvement in the data collection, surveys and
evaluation; and (iii) presentation of results, stakeholder review and feedback. The participatory
process adopted was adequate and resulted in comprehensive analysis and documentation of
environmental and social safeguard issues.

30.     Assessment of Risks. Four significant risks were identified during preparation which
revealed the project’s vulnerability at the design phase. These were the: (i) risk of failure to
establish the Bumbuna Hydropower Company (BHC) as a PPP; (ii) risk of ineffective cross-
linkages between the Power and Water Project (PWP), approved by the Board on July 1, 2004,
and the CBHP; (iii) risk of limited institutional capacity in both the PIU and GoSL agencies to
adequately implement the project; and (iv) the inability of the GoSL to effectively set up and
operate the Bumbuna Trust (BT). While the assessment of risks was thorough, the mitigation
measures proposed to address each of these risks were not well defined. For example, even
though the risk of failure in establishing the BHC was high, the project did not provide for
alternative institutional arrangements.

31.     Crucial to BHP’s success as designed was the PPP, to be implemented and managed by
the private company, the BHC. The establishment of BHC was deemed necessary to reduce the
performance risks during operation and maintenance of the hydropower project. The PAD
recognized that the main proposed shareholder of BHC was a hydropower plant builder and not
an operator. The proposed mitigation measure for this was that, following commissioning of the
BHP, the BHC was expected to contract an international operating utility, to be competitively
selected under Bank procurement guidelines, to operate and maintain (O&M contract) the project
on behalf of BHC. The operator was also to be responsible for carrying out the environment and
management programs for the operation of the dam, reservoir, transmission facilities and right of
way.



                                                7
32.     The risk of limited institutional capacity of the GoSL and its implementation entities was
appropriately assessed as substantial and adequate resources were allocated for capacity building.
However, the capacity building programs focused mainly on improving the staff within the
ministry while day to day project management was delegated to a PIU. The project design also
relied on the ability of the GoSL to establish the BT prior to the commissioning of BHP. The
establishment of the BT, as designed, was a practical measure, recognizing the limited budgetary
resources of the GoSL to provide sustainable funding for environmental and social safeguards of
BHP in the long term. However, alternative options for financing these safeguard costs were not
considered.

2.2    Implementation

33.    Background. Two presidential elections and four leadership changes in the Ministry of
Energy took place during the project implementation period. As a result, implementation of
sector reforms was slow and the institutional memory of the project was lost over time.
Implementation can be divided into four phases: (i) project effectiveness, (ii) initial
implementation; (iii) mid-term review in 2009 and subsequent level 1 restructuring, and (iv)
implementation phase following restructuring.

34.     Effectiveness. The project had an initial effectiveness deadline of October 26, 2005
which was extended to March 30, 2007 (i.e. by 17 months) at the request of the GoSL. The key
condition delaying effectiveness of the PRG was the inability to secure acceptable terms on the
commercial loans, for the completion of remaining works at BHP, facilitated by the PRG.
Effectiveness of the PRG was delayed due to failure of negotiations on the project agreements
among the concessionaire, its senior lender, the GoSL, and IDA. Negotiations with commercial
banks failed to yield a commercial loan on terms that were acceptable to all.

35.   To ensure the start of the implementation of the grant components of the original project,
the GoSL requested that the effectiveness conditions for the Grant and PRG be delinked. The
Bank granted this request. The IDA grant was declared effective on December 19, 2006.

36.    Implementation. In April 2007, the Minister of Finance requested cancellation of the
PRG. The GoSL was able to mobilize alternative donor funding to cover the remaining costs of
completing construction of the Bumbuna dam. The GoSL decided that the dam would be
developed as a public project rather than through a PPP structure as agreed with the Bank. The
PWP which supported key sector reforms, such as the selection of a management contractor for
NPA and tariff reforms, was restructured in 2007 to rehabilitate a power plant that had stopped
working and the support for reforms was eliminated from the project. Attracting an international
operator into that environment would have been difficult were there a willingness to do so.
Construction was finalized and the impoundment of the reservoir was initiated in March 2008.

37.    The extent and cost of key activities under the grant were underestimated, particularly the
RAPs and the environmental offset, while potential revenue streams from carbon credits or from
energy generation were greatly overestimated. As impoundment of the dam approached and
resources were dwindling, the project prioritized measures required to ensure safeguards
compliance during impoundment. This was achieved by cutting back drastically on the benefit

                                                8
sharing and deferring other activities; such as establishing the environmental offset,
implementation of the Emergency Preparedness Plan and environmental capacity building within
the Ministry of Energy.

38.     The BHP was commissioned on November 6, 2009. At the time of commissioning, no
arrangements had been made for the operation and maintenance of the dam. The GoSL requested
the dam contractor, to operate the BHP for an interim period of 18-30 months. This arrangement
was extended a number of times and the contractor continues to work as the interim operator to
this day. Over the life of the project, both the contractor and the owner’s engineer have not been
fully paid for their services by the GoSL.

39.     A Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio (QALP) in 2008 rated the project
moderately satisfactory. The QALP rated quality of supervision as moderately likely to achieve
PDOs and was critical of the Bank team’s performance; specifically with regard to fiduciary
matters (procurement and financial management were rated unsatisfactory and moderately
unsatisfactory, respectively).

40.   Mid-Term Review. The Mid Term Review (MTR) was undertaken in February 2009.
This was during the impoundment of the reservoir but before the commissioning of the project.
The MTR observed a number of deficiencies and recommended to restructure the project:

    •   Unclear Arrangements for Dam Operations. No professional dam operator had been
        recruited prior to initiation of impoundment and the testing phase of the hydropower
        project – as agreed at appraisal of the IDA project. The MTR advised to use IDA
        financing to provide support to the GoSL for the creation, staffing, equipping and basic
        capacity building of an Emergency Action Unit (EAU) 5 to address dam safety and
        emergency preparedness issues.
    •   Lack of Legal Framework Underpinning Bumbuna’s Operation and Financial
        Sustainability. A PPA, that would set out the arrangements for the purchase of power by
        NPA for the BHP, had not yet been approved despite consultants’ assistance to the GoSL
        in drafting a PPA and a national energy tariff study carried out under the project (in
        partnership with DfID and AfDB).
    •   Continued Weak Implementation Capacities of PIU and GoSL. Client counterpart
        capacity was very weak and required the IDA team to provide very intensive support on
        even small tasks. The MTR noted that the PIU suffered from the frequent changes in its
        management and staff, in tandem with similar changes in ministerial leadership. The
        MTR found the internal controls to be seriously weak, warranting a full-scale financial
        and procurement review in 2010. Allegations of corruption were brought to the attention
        of the World Bank’s Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) following the MTR. In response,
        the Bank team devised an action plan that included a procurement review, increased
        supervision, and key personnel changes.


5
  This unit consisted of local guards who would patrol the shoreline and travel within the surrounding communities
in order to sensitize and convey alerts from the BHP Dam Safety Committee.



                                                        9
    •   Funding Shortfalls. Expenditures on safeguards components exceeded amounts included
        in some categories and required a reallocation of resources. The funding shortfalls were
        partly a result of the introduction of new activities recommended by the DSRP and ESAP
        that were not envisaged in the original project. For example, resources had to be allocated
        to establish an additional environment offset (LMNP), to ensure that the BWMA had the
        resources to carry out identified activities, and to ensure that a sustainable financing
        mechanism (BT) was in place for long term social and environmental management
        activities. Also the expected revenues from carbon offset financing had not materialized.
    •   Risk of Non-payment of Compensation to T-line Claimants. There was concern about the
        inability of the GoSL to resolve issues related to legacy PAPs, who had been relocated by
        GoSL during the 1990s as a result of clearing a right of way (ROW) for the high voltage
        T-Line. There were also issues beyond the project’s scope including: (i) issues related to
        GoSL’s compensation policies under the recovery law for post-war or conflict-affected
        households who occupied sections of the T-Line; (ii) unclear regulations of the GoSL for
        valuation of assets subject to eminent domain and corresponding procedures for
        determining assets given to the Ministry of Land, Country Planning and Environment,
        instead of local governments; and (iii) lack of legal framework for pre-war compensation,
        which is not covered in the existing land and property laws. To address these concerns an
        ESAP resettlement expert provided step-by-step procedures for addressing valuation
        issues. A special account was set up to cover compensation payments, as soon as a legal
        framework was in place.

41.     The MTR concluded that there was insufficient time and funding available to complete
safeguard activities under the original grant. The MTR recommended a project restructuring in
order to: extend the closing date, reallocate funds from the PRG (in the order of US$9.5 million)
for carrying out the remaining environmental and safeguard activities under the original project,
and to fund new activities recommended by the DSRP and ESAP.

42.     Following the MTR, a revised EMP was discussed in a workshop on June 16, 2010,
during which it was renamed the Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP). The
revised ESMP included the following additional safeguard measures: (i) inclusion of the
establishment of LMNP 6, including the conservation area immediately above the dam site, as
BHP’s environmental offset; (ii) inclusion of the updated Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP)
and associated funding; and (iii) establishment and initial operation of the Bumbuma Trust 7. The
ESMP also included programs in the Bumbuna watershed area and reservoir not previously
financed by the grant. Social mitigation instruments were also revised during the course of
implementation and were reflected in the restructuring package including: (i) a revised RAP for




6
  Loma Mountain National Park (LMNP) was to be set up through legislative instruments; necessary staff was to be
deployed; and it was to be run as a protected area, a National Park.
7
  Bumbuna Trust (BT) was envisaged to be a conduit for the sustainable financing of the Bumbuna environmental
and social mitigation actions, and was to be funded through the revenues accruing through the PPA from the sale of
electricity to NPA.


                                                       10
the dam and reservoir and disclosed in 2008, including previously unplanned food and cash
compensation; and (ii) an updated RAP for the 161kV T-line, including pre-2005 compensation 8.

43.      Project Restructuring GoSL’s initial request to cancel the PRG was made in April 2007
but restructuring of the project only took place in September 2010. This delay was caused by: (i)
GoSL requesting time to find some form of alternative guarantee to address financing problems
caused by cancellation of the PRG and to ultimately mobilize US$55 million in donor funding;
(ii) trying to fill a funding gap, caused by the cancellation of carbon financing from the
Netherlands Clean Development Fund, which would have covered the costs of the Upper Seli
Community Development Initiative 9; and (iii) adjustments in the planned safeguards. The
restructuring limited the project scope to supporting environmental and social management
measures related to the BHP. The PRG component was canceled and funds reallocated (US$9.5
million which is equivalent to a guarantee of US$38.0 million) to cover the cost overruns and
expanded scope of the environmental and social activities. The PDO and key indicators were
revised to focus on safeguard issues associated with the final stages of completion and initial
operation of the BHP and T-Line. The restructured project, renamed the Bumbuna Hydroelectric
Environmental and Social Management Project, became effective in March 2011.

44.     The project was restructured for a second time in September 2012 to reallocate funds to
finance the supply installation, commissioning and testing of sirens as part of the dam’s early
warning system (this was not envisaged in 2010) and to extend the closing date to allow
remaining activities to be completed. While the DSRP found Bumbuna dam to be “no less safe
than any similar dam elsewhere in the world”, at its July 4-15, 2012, it recommended the
installation of a siren warning system extending 50 km downstream from the dam, to protect
downstream populations form the consequences of unsatisfactory operation of the dam. The
DSRP’s recommendation was based on the possible interruption of dam operation and
maintenance and monitoring, due to uncertain funding flows to the interim operator.

45.     The project’s closing date was subsequently extended by nine months from September
30, 2012 to June 30, 2013. The closing date extension affected neither the Project Outcomes nor
the PDO. At the time of the project extension, the Bank communicated to the GoSL that no
further project extensions would be granted.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

46.    M&E Design. The PDO was ambitious and there was a gap between the PDO and the
PDO indicators. The PAD included an adequate results framework and arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation. The original PDOs are clearly stated as are the outcome indicators
and targets. Intermediate results are grouped by Components and results indicators are specified.
8
  Payments to affected households, which were identified prior to 2005, were to be funded from the revenue of
electricity sales. However, GoSL requested the BHESMP for financial support to cover these commitments since
electricity revenues were insufficient to cover the compensation costs.
9
  The carbon offset P093878 was budgeted at US$300,000 at the time of appraisal. This was revised to
US$5.3million afterwards. Unfortunately, the methodology for large hydro projects was modified by the Clean
Development Mechanism’s Executive Board shortly after the Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement was signed,
making the project ineligible for such financing.


                                                     11
However, the achievement of PDO under the original project was dependent on the successful
achievement of the results under the PWP. The fact that the results framework in Annex 3 of the
PAD “assumed that all the energy produced by the BHP is sold to NPA and that NPA functions
properly as described in details under the PWP”, is telling.

47.     Under the original project, an arrangement for monitoring of activities was established
and the PAD clearly articulates baselines, targets, and criteria for data collection reporting by
indicator including frequency of reporting, data collection instruments, and responsible parties
for collection, in most cases. The M&E design for the restructured project also clearly specified
the project’s PDO, outcome indicators, intermediate outcomes and associated indicators and the
key activities. New outcomes and activities were added as a direct result of a revised RAP and
ESMP disclosed in August 2010.

48.     M&E implementation. M&E implementation between 2005 and the project
restructuring in September 2010 was ad-hoc. The results framework was not judiciously
transferred into the electronic implementation status reporting system. To determine results at the
time of the restructuring during ICR elaboration, it was necessary to glean information from ISR
#11 and the 2010 restructuring paper. After project restructuring, Aide Memoires and ISRs
reflect meticulous monitoring and evaluation and corresponding adjustments to supervision plans
to address any underperforming activities.

49.    M&E Utilization. The precondition of successful implementation of the PWP and
subsequent delay in implementation of BHP prevented utilization of the M&E framework
developed in the PAD. Upon project restructuring, capacity building in PIU in M&E activities
was given heightened importance, and a specialist was engaged on a full-time basis. Visiting
supervision missions spent substantial time with PIU staff reviewing their work, and providing
guidance on utilizing the M&E systems for informed decision-making.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

50.     Environmental and Social Safeguards. The project was classified as a category “A”
project. The following safeguard policies were triggered by CBHP: Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forests (OP/BP 4.36), Cultural Property (OPN
11.03), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37). Essentially a
safeguards management project after restructuring, the project provided extensive support to the
government to address environment and social safeguards associated with the operation of the
Bumbuna dam.

51.     The environmental impacts and resettlement issues raised by the CBHP were addressed
in the 1996 and 2005 EAs, in the Dam and Reservoir RAP, in the T-Line RAP, and included in
the work of DSRP and ESAP. The implementation of the EAs and the RAPs entailed
resettlement and compensation covering 38 villages, 599 households, and 5,033 PAPs,
emergency food aid, land for land exchange for 41 households (186 people) in five villages
covering 179.3 hectares of agricultural lands, and cash compensation for lost crops, trees and
other assets to 171 farmers with 117 hectares of partially or fully inundated farmlands. For the T-
line, roughly 910 households and 1,565 PAPs were found to be within the ROW's built-up areas

                                                12
under the revised requirements in 2009, including over 50 structures within the clearance limit.
RAPs were revised in 2008, including a shoreline survey in 2007. Following an influx of
grievances after impoundment, a resurvey was conducted in 2009 and 2012. At the project’s
close, there were a few activities that were still incomplete, for example the emergency warning
system was not yet fully functional, thus consistent with the Bank’s environmental safeguard
policies, the Bank will continue to supervise implementation of these activities.

52.     For social safeguards, the reservoir RAP completion report carefully outlined the
methodologies undertaken for carrying out the RAPs and shoreline surveys including limitations.
The assessment of valuation and compensation is described in detail, including costs associated
with relocation, agricultural and tree production losses, and relocation of cultural assets. It also
outlines communication strategies, M&E arrangements, livelihood restoration strategies, and
complaints and grievance procedures undertaken.

53.     Procurement. Procurement capacity in the PIU posed serious problems in the early
stages of the implementation of the project due to a lack of the requisite skills as well as a lack of
familiarity with the IDA procurement guidelines. The restructured project involved relatively
small-sized but a large number of procurement packages. In March 2013, the Bank conducted a
procurement post review of the project and the report was shared with the GoSL. Following the
review, the overall procurement arrangements for the project maintained a Moderately
Satisfactory rating, while the procurement risk was rated as 'High’.

54.     Financial Management. The Financial Management (FM) aspects of the project were
handled by a full-time FM Specialist in the PMU. While challenges were encountered during the
early part of the implementation of the project, FM activities were streamlined later. In line with
the fiduciary oversight, the FM team of the Bank continuously reviewed the adequacy of the FM
arrangements and whether they met the Bank's minimum requirements.

55.     In January 2013, a detailed and comprehensive FM assessment was completed. There
were adequate systems in place, including staffing, within the Accounts department, which
provided reliable and credible financial data, together with adequate support documentation.
Overall, the FM arrangement of the project is rated as being Moderately Satisfactory (MS) and
there has been no adverse change in the arrangements as documented in the PAD.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

56.      Since its commissioning in late 2009, the Bumbuna hydropower project has not
consistently produced power at the level of its installed capacity. In November 2012, the shaft of
Generator Unit-2 cracked and it had become completely inoperable; subsequently, Unit-1 also
started exhibiting excessive vibration and had to be run at much lower generation capacity (8-10
MW). During April 2013, Generator Unit-1 was shut down for maintenance, the shaft replaced,
and has since been generating between 22-23 MW (against a rated capacity of 25MW). The
GoSL has extended the interim operator’s contract up to December 2014 to undertake repairs and
replace the shaft in Generator Unit-2, which is expected to be complete by end June 2014. It is
expected that a new operator will be engaged after December 2014, once repair work on both
units is complete and they have been operating for a further six months without incident.

                                                 13
57.    The technical problems early on during the operation of the dam (hydropower projects
normally have a project life of several decades) point to potential engineering problems during
the design and construction phase or might be the result of ad hoc operation of the dam and
powerhouse. To date, the GoSL continues to incur a backlog of payments to the interim operator
(the company that constructed the dam) and dam engineer.

58.      At project closing in June 2013, conformance to the provisions of the Bank’s
environmental and social safeguards policies was incomplete. Sustainable funding by the GoSL
for the continued implementation of the environmental and social safeguards measures, including
the environmental offset, was not assured. The GoSL is responsible for financing outstanding
activities to ensure compliance from other sources. In compliance with its Operational and
Safeguards Policies, the Bank will continue to supervise the implementation by the GoSL of the
following outstanding environmental and social safeguards after the project closing date: (i)
installation and commissioning of a siren warning system, continued functioning of Emergency
Action Unit; and completion of three new Communication Centers (for safety information
dissemination). (ii) Operationalization of Loma Mountains National Park as an environmental
offset for Bumbuna project, including measures to protect the park; maintenance of the Bumbuna
Conservation Area; and continued functioning of the Bumbuna Watershed Management
Authority. (iv) payment of compensation to the few remaining PAPs 10; and (v) completion of the
remainder of livelihood related training and distribution of tools/seeds to forest-edge
communities.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

59.     The objectives of the project remain highly relevant. Both the Joint World Bank/IFC
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Sierra Leone for FY10-FY13 and the Second Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP II) for 2008-2012 emphasized the government’s support for the
country’s growth agenda in three priority areas: (i) agriculture; (ii) energy; and (iii) transport
infrastructure. As the most significant installed generation capacity in the sector, Bumbuna’s safe
operation and distribution of power is critical for the country’s continued economic growth and
support both pillars of the CAS: human development and promoting inclusive growth.

60.      The project design remains moderately relevant. As the dam was 85 percent complete in
1997, completion of BHP was the best option to improve energy access and reliability. The use
of a PRG to obtain a commercial loan was an innovative way to leverage a small envelope, but
was too ambitious for the country circumstances. The design overestimated the political will to
undertake significant policy reforms and was not thoroughly informed by background analysis as
it related to the PRG. The redesign of the project at restructuring still did not fully take into
account the client’s institutional capacity.



10
     These are PAPs who have not come forward despite outreach activities by PMU, and are not contactable.




                                                         14
61.      Project implementation was relevant. As previously noted the extent and cost of key
activities under the grant were underestimated. Circumstances changed significantly during
implementation. The GoSL and the Bank team reacted to these changing circumstances by
restructuring or other means to retain relevance of objectives and design. The recommendations
and advice of the Expert Panels (ESAP and the DSRP) were largely adopted by the project and
led to major revisions and improvements in the set of measures necessary to ensure compliance
with safeguards requirements. However, restructurings were done reactively and with delay.
Relevance could have been enhanced by a more proactive approach.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives (Original and Restructured)

Original PDOs

62.     The achievement of the PDO prior to project restructuring is rated Unsatisfactory (U).
While progress was made on implementing the environmental and social safeguards measures,
these activities did not contribute in large measure to the achievement of the PDO reflected in the
PAD which was principally oriented towards the anticipated result of the PRG. The GoSL had
requested the cancellation of the PRG four months after project effectiveness; which was delayed
14 months from the original effectiveness deadline due to unsuccessful negotiations of a
commercial loan that was integral to the success of the PRG. The following paragraphs outline
the outputs under each component of the Original Project, prior to restructuring.

63.    Component A comprised the US$38 million to mobilize commercial loans to finance
completion of the BHD. Negotiations of commercial loans were unsuccessful; therefore the
GoSL requested that IDA cancel the PRG. The PRG never became effective; therefore no
progress was made in relation to the PDO and intermediate indicators related to electricity sales,
percentage reduction in electricity tariffs, establishment of the public private partnership through
the concession contract to BHC, or the establishment of the regulatory legal function and
appropriate legal environment.

64.     Component B was designed to implement safeguard measures including environmental
mitigation, resettlement, watershed management, and benefit sharing. Most of the activities
identified in the EMP and RAP were completed for the construction and impoundment phases.
However, activities for operational phase remained partly outstanding. By the date of the
restructuring, implementation had not progressed sufficiently to have monitorable progress on
most of the PDO and intermediate indicators (See Annex 3 for details). However, there was good
progress made on the implementation of activities, the highlights of which are reflected below
with a more detailed overview of project outputs in Annex 2.

65.   Under the environmental management sub-component the following activities were
completed:

       (i)     Oversight of the EMP and the RAPs had been carried out by the PIU;
       (ii)    Establishment of the BWMA and the BCA on July 4, 2008 by an Act of
               Parliament, however, the BWMA was not operational by the time of the 2010
               Restructuring;

                                                15
         (iii)   A community awareness campaign and education program for watershed
                 management and formulation of a water quality monitoring program, even though
                 the watershed management plan had not been fully developed;
         (iv)    Biodiversity baseline studies which led to the identification of an alternative
                 environmental offset, LMNP 11, and baseline studies and boundary demarcation
                 for the LMNP was ongoing; and
         (v)     Clearing the reservoir area of most large trees to reduce methane gas emissions
                 and navigation risks.

66.     Under the social mitigation subcomponent progress was made on the implementation of
the SAP, the RAPs and the LAIR Program as follows. The project financed the implementation
of a SAP focused on agricultural extension and training for conservation farming. This activity
was partially complete at the time of restructuring due to delays in starting the tree nurseries.
Though not an activity originally identified for financing under the Grant, an Emergency
Preparedness Plan (EPP) for safety measures downstream from the reservoir was developed. The
EPP was originally to be developed by the operator under the O&M contract. However, as an
international operator was not contracted, the Grant funded this activity and initial set-up of an
Emergency Action Unit. 12

67.   The RAP for the dam and reservoir area was updated in 2008 using a new shoreline
demarcation. It was subsequently implemented prior to the first phase of Bumbuna’s
impoundment and by December 2008, following activities were completed:

     •   Resettlement and compensation covering 38 villages, 599 households, and 5,033 PAPs;
     •   Emergency food aid, not originally envisaged in the project design but recommended by
         ESAP, over two years (2007 to 2009);
     •   Land for land exchange for 41 households (186 people) in five villages covering 179.3
         hectares of agricultural lands; and
     •   Cash compensation for lost crops, trees and other assets to 171 farmers with 117 hectares
         of partially or fully inundated farmlands.

68.     The 2005 RAP for the transmission line (T-Line) identified 367 households inside the
Right-of-Way (ROW). After exploring three alternatives, GoSL revised the RAP; this reduced
the area within the ROW where houses would be moved. The GoSL also established a
Resettlement Advisory Group in July 2009 to approve guidelines for identification of eligible
PAPs and to define the criteria for compensation, including for so-called legacy PAPs. 13

11
   A more significant offset on natural habitats was identified and considered preferable by the ESAP to upgrade the
nearby Loma Mountains Non-Hunting Forest Reserve into the LMNP. The approach was endorsed by the GoSL but
Parliamentary approval was significantly delayed.
12
   Dam safety concerns, especially preparedness, were enforced prior to full impoundment. An incident in January
2009, causing the accidental death of two boys from Bumbuna Town, occurred during one of the large water
releases, prompting the implementation of more clearly defined emergency warning procedures.
13
   An exception to OP 4.12 was given to allow the use of IDA grant funds for legacy compensation of PAPs for loss
of property and farmland that occurred when the transmission line foundations were originally constructed. PAD
Section 7.1 page 42


                                                        16
Roughly 910 households and 1,565 PAPs were found to be within the ROW’s built-up areas
under the revised requirements in 2009. During this time, approximately 70 percent to 80 percent
of PAPs opted to move to other areas. At the time of restructuring, implementation of the T-line
RAP was partially complete.

69.     Implementation of the Livelihood Assessment and Income Restoration (LAIR) programs
for the dam and reservoir areas had commenced by the time of the restructuring in 2010.

70.     Under the benefit sharing subcomponent, the project design envisaged four distance
groups of activities: (1) ward and community subprojects; (ii) Youth Capacity Building
programs; (iii) Catchment Stakeholder Forums; and (iv) the establishment and demonstration of
the basic institutional model for the proposed Bumbuna Trust (BT) for local resource
development. At the time of restructuring, the BT had not been established, although a draft Act
establishing the BT had been submitted for approval. The ward and community subprojects, the
Youth Capacity Building Program and the Catchment Stakeholder Forums were not initiated.

71.     Implementation of Component C showed uneven progress. Although the Bumbuna PIU
was fully staffed, its performance was poor. The MTR in 2009 noted that significant
strengthening was needed to address the following: (i) documentation not properly organized or
was incomplete; (ii) serious delays in withdrawal applications; and (iii) operations hampered by
lack of financial management, with serious procurement issues causing delays in release of funds
for project activities.

72.    The ESAP and DSRP functioned satisfactorily during BHP’s implementation. Both
panels visited the project sites four times between 2005 and 2010. The panels’ reports provided
extensive advice throughout all stages of project implementation and their recommendations led
to significant changes in project design and a broadening of the scope of the safeguards
measures. Finally, the Communication Action Plan was formulated.

Restructured PDOs

73.     The achievement of the PDO after project restructuring is rated Moderately Satisfactory
(MS). The activities under the project were to assist the Recipient to address and mitigate social
and environmental impacts in the project area associated with the completion and operation of
the dam and transmission line. Notwithstanding the sustainability issues relating to the BWMA,
EAU and the LMNP, environmental and social safeguard have been complied with well. Five of
the six PDO indicators were fully achieved and one was substantially achieved. While nine of the
eleven intermediate outcome indicators were achieved, one was partially achieved and the
remaining one was not achieved. The achievement of the PDO is assessed with reference to the
achievement of each of the six PDO indicators with reference to the related intermediate
indicators. A detailed overview of project outputs is provided in Annex 2.

74.     The resettlement and compensation of PAPs related to the dam and reservoir area and
the transmission line have been addressed and livelihoods have been restored to pre-project
levels, barring a few cases where the PAPs are not contactable. Therefore, the three PDO
indicators relating to PAPs have been fully achieved. To facilitate the achievement of these PDO

                                               17
indicators, the following activities were successfully undertaken: the revised 161kV
Transmission line RAP was approved, replacement land was provided and the RAP was
implemented in accordance with the schedule. Further, implementation of the SAP and LAIR
Programs was completed. Therefore five intermediate indicators were achieved. Highlights of
the results of related activities follow.

75.     At the project’s close, almost 100 percent of PAPs claims related to the T-Line had been
addressed. Approximately US$242,000 was paid for losses incurred from the destruction of
assets. Institutional structures that needed to be relocated were constructed, including four
schools, three churches, and two mosques. There remain, however, cases of compensation to be
paid as a result of grievances concerning legacy PAPs as well as unavailability of PAPs during
the compensation period (95 persons which could not be located since they migrated out of the
area).

76.     Following the restructuring, a new shoreline survey was undertaken in 2011 to follow up
on the conditions of PAPs after impoundment. The survey results showed roughly 100 new PAPs
for possible compensation and noted that: (i) most of the identified affected lands in 2008
experienced partial or full flooding; (ii) of the 507 or so markers placed in 2007, 142 went
missing after impoundment; and (iii) lands were generally cultivated by over 500 or so
“shoreline farmers” or those who opted to make use of lands during the dry season, including
some new households who migrated into the area.

77.     The RAP completion report states that 41 houses in 5 villages were resettled for
US$286,370. In addition, compensation allowances were made for loss of economic trees,
opening of new land, moving costs, cultural lands, and others (e.g. sacred sites) in 38 villages for
a total of US$1.4million. Finally, PAP support was provided for emergency agriculture and
livelihood assistance, direct food aid, finance and business assistance, rehabilitation and
construction of footpaths, etc. for a total of US$2.8 million. The shoreline resurvey in 2012
found that living conditions of resettled households were on the whole satisfactory. Some
damage to the resettlement houses was noticed post-resettlement. Maintenance and rehabilitation
of the 41 resettlement houses was firmly underway in January 2013 and by the project’s close,
repairs in one out of three sites was completed.

78.     PAPs in the dam and reservoir area were provided with land-for-land exchange,
resettlement housing, and/or livelihood restoration support through the Stabilized Agriculture
Program (SAP) or the Livelihood Assessment and Income Restoration Program (LAIR).

79.    The RAP Completion Report notes that of the 846 FFS members who benefited from the
program, 52 percent were female. This confirms that women’s contribution in agriculture in the
catchment’s area is higher than their male counterparts. The focus on women’s participation was
also evident in the composition of beneficiaries of food aid, community livelihood assistance,
and capacity building programs.

80.    The impacts of SAP activities were measured through baseline surveys of beneficiaries
that were done in 2008 (as the baseline) and in 2011 (as the impact measure). Overall, over 95
percent of households reported an improvement in living conditions since the project’s inception

                                                18
of SAP activities in 2007. A summary of year over year farm production and productivity shows
that 45 percent of households had surplus rice compared to 28 percent before the SAP
intervention. Finally, the across the board increase in household income was used to invest in
livelihood assets, such as renovation of houses, business improvements, investment in tree crop
plantations, education, etc.

81.     The LAIR carried out by the organization for Research and Extension of Intermediate
Technology (OREINT) provided: (i) awareness raising to communities to pursue fishing as a
livelihood; (ii) training and materials to newly established fishing groups; (iii) capacity building
of affected communities to pursue farming as a business enterprise and generate income for
community development (e.g. fisheries and boat building); (iv) skills and knowledge
improvement of communities in promoting health and sanitation behaviors for healthcare; (v)
access to quality education (e.g. renovation of classrooms); (vi) safe storage to minimize post-
harvest losses; and (vi) set up of livelihood micro grants for women.

82.    The percentage female beneficiaries of the project under LAIR were estimated at 45
percent, but, when added together with SAP, the overall female beneficiaries were estimated at
about 51 percent. To the extent that the LAIR and SAP were successful, this PDO indicator is
deemed successful.

83.     The implementation of energy based community growth pole subprojects was the benefit
sharing component of the project and it has been implemented satisfactorily. Activities in
connection therewith included: the electrification of Bumbuna Town with connections provided
to community level infrastructure such as schools, health centers, and streetlights; the
rehabilitation of housing and the construction of six communication centers, landing points and
foot-trails.

84.     Finally, installation of a provisional warning system downstream. At the project’s closing
this intermediate indicator had only been partially achieved. At the time of the project’s
restructuring in 2010, an EPP for dam safety was in place and an EAU established. The EAU
was established to perform three important functions: (i) collection and compilation of data
regarding downstream communities in the context of safety; (ii) communication of early warning
messages; and (iii) responses to any unforeseen emergency situations. The EAU was performing
its duties effectively at the project’s closing. To complement the operation of the EAU, in 2009,
the DSRP had recommended the installation of seven sirens in the near zone downstream from
the dam. In 2011, the DSRP recommended a more extensive siren-based emergency warning
system totaling 27 sirens to be installed. At project close, 19 siren sites had been completed and
partial foundation and perimeter wall work was completed for the remaining 8 siren sites. This
activity suffered from significant procurement delays and delays in delivery of the sirens to
Bumbuna due to clearances needed once the equipment arrived in Sierra Leone.

85.     The BWMA is functional and fulfills its key functions: (i) dam and reservoir RAP; (ii)
regular water quality monitoring; (iii) water-borne disease monitoring program; and (iv)
management of the conservation area. The BMWA was established to manage the watershed of
the reservoir following the commissioning of BHP. It fulfills all the functions described with the
exception of the monitoring of waterborne diseases; as such the related PDO indicator is

                                                19
substantially achieved. The Act establishing the BWMA was passed in 2008 and by late 2012 a
well-functioning technical team was in place. The Bumbuna Watershed Management Plan was
developed and adopted. The BWMA regularly reports on the state of the environment in the
watershed. However, there is still no sustainable financing mechanism for BWMA. Resulting in
only three of the four intermediate indicators related to this PDO indicator being achieved.

86.    Loma Mountains National Park (LMNP) is established and operational. LMNP,
comprising 33,201 hectares or 128 square miles, was identified by the ESAP in 2007 as an
appropriate additional offset for the natural habitat impacts under the project and was established
as a national park in December 2012. This was in addition to BCA for watershed catchment
above the dam and near-zone reservoir. Management of the park is operational 14; however, no
sustainable financing mechanism is in place for the LMNP. The following activities have been
completed:

       •    The physical demarcation of Park boundaries was completed with participation of local
            communities using 90 erected pillars;
       •    Women’s groups participated in the clearing and planting of 20,000 economic tree
            seedlings between demarcation pillars;
       •    Park rangers (15) assigned, trained, and are carrying out regular patrolling and threat
            monitoring, which is believed to have been highly effective in restricting illegal use of
            park resources;
       •    An initial biodiversity inventory has been established through collation of existing
            studies;
       •    Process framework and management plan developed and disclosed (fulfilling the related
            intermediate indicator);
       •    A settlement court was convened to address any issues with legal claims to resources
            within the Park’s boundary, and concluded that there were no valid claims;
       •    Collaboration with local and chiefdom officials and a MoU between Forestry Department
            and communities on appropriate land uses in and around the Park, including development
            of a Community Action Plan.

Overall Rating for the Achievement of the PDO

87.     The overall rating for the achievement of the PDO is Moderately Unsatisfactory. This
rating is a weighted average of the PDO rating before and after restructuring, taking into account
that approximately 63 percent of disbursement took place before project restructuring, e.g. under
the original PDO (see table).




14
     Operational means that the park staff is present, equipped and that there are facilities for field work.



                                                              20
                                         Against Original PDO       Against Revised PDO
Rating                                       Unsatisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory
Rating Value                                       2                            4
Weight (% disbursed before/after                  0.63                        0.37
change in PDO)
Weighted Value                                       1.26                        1.48

Final Rating (rounded)                        2.74 equivalent to Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.3    Efficiency

88.    Efficiency is rated low. While the project achieved tangible results, the costs involved in
achieving project objectives were relatively high when compared with both the benefits and with
recognized norms.

89.     At the time of project appraisal, a Financial Summary for the Revenue Earning Project
Entities, namely BHC and the Project Company, were prepared. Based on the changes in the
project, BHC was not established and the revenue and cost streams, supported through IDA PRG
(which was canceled on GoSL’s request) did not materialize. This analysis is not relevant to
determine the efficiency of the restructured project. The restructured project was a Technical
Assistance Grant that financed environmental and social mitigation actions. A quantitative
economic or financial analysis to determine the internal rate of return is not feasible given the
scope of the project.

90.     Frequent changes in the definition of project activities had a negative influence on the
efficiency of project implementation. The project preparation and implementation period of this
relatively small project spanned a period of a decade and not all project activities were finalized
at project closure. The project underwent one Level 1 restructuring during this period but also
underwent multiple Level 2 restructurings. These Level 2 restructurings included multiple
reallocations of IDA funds. This lowered the efficiency of project implementation, resulting in a
fragmented approach to procurement (arguably resulting in higher unit costs). The project
amount for the environmental and social activities was US$12.5million. This amount was
increased by 76 percent (US$9.5 million) at time of project restructuring because of cost
overruns and to fund new activities recommended by the DSRP and ESAP.

91.     It should be noted that Bank Budget spent on the project is equivalent to over 20 percent
of the IDA Grant amount disbursed. The total amount of Bank Budget spent on preparation and
implementation support for the BHP since 2005 is approximately US$4.0 million, including
US$2.2 million in staff costs, US$1.3million in travel and US$504,000 in other expenses.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

92.     The overall outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU). This composite rating
is a combination of the ratings for project relevance (relevant), achievement of the PDO (MU),
and efficiency (low).


                                                21
3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

        a.       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

93.     The project contributed to the objectives of reducing poverty; enhancing community
development; encouraging women’s empowerment; and strengthening capacity-building at the
grass-roots level. The social development programs focused on addressing hunger and
deprivation while ensuring improved local governance. The project’s outcome measurements
applied time and cross section poverty indicators that showed an improvement in household
incomes by over 26 percent (since the baseline in 2004 up to the follow-up survey in 2010). 15

94.      The indicators were broken down by categories of vulnerable populations. Since one of
the project’s objectives was women’s empowerment, the outcomes were quantified using gender
disaggregated data. These included qualitative impact assessments (using case studies) for such
activities as female-headed micro-enterprises and small businesses; women’s participation in
project and local decision making, and changes in women’s life skills (using demographic and
health indicators). Overall, there was significant improvement in women’s incomes and
leadership (e.g. a 50 percent increase in women local leaders in agri-business groups and farmer
field schools).

95.     Similarly, there was a separate outcome indicator that was measured for youth
participation. In 2004, the project organized a peace building and conflict management workshop
for youth, following an assessment of the post-conflict conditions in the area. By end of project,
more than 35 percent of community development programs were coordinated by youth leaders in
the 33 villages covered by the project. An example of long-term impact is the inter-Chiefdom
youth sports tournament (labeled “Soccer for Peace”) which eventually became a yearly event
and integrated into the District youth programs.

        b.       Institutional Change/Strengthening

96.     The project was part of the CAS program for institutional strengthening and public sector
reforms. The project did not achieve the envisaged institutional strengthening through the
establishment of a PPP structure for the management, operation and maintenance of the BHP.
Some progress was made in setting up, within the energy sector, management institutions that
integrated environmental and social considerations into infrastructure services, for example the
legal establishment of the BWMA as part of the BHP. This further led to the inclusion in power
projects of environment monitoring indicators, which were subsequently applied to the mining
sector. Many of these efforts required inter-ministerial collaboration between energy,
environment, and social ministries.




15
  The poverty baseline was established in 2004 (sample survey as part of project preparation), then followed up
with a panel survey conducted one year after the project’s community driven development activities started in 2008.
The final poverty measure was performed in 2010, one year after household and community compensation payments
was completed, and once livelihood support schemes had started.


                                                        22
          c.     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

97.       The project had no other unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

98.     A comprehensive measurement approach was applied to assess beneficiary impacts of the
project. Baseline socio-economic surveys were completed using two time lines – before the start
of the project in 2004 and after one year of implementation (in 2008). Panel surveys were
undertaken in 2010 to measure impacts on households’ incomes and livelihoods. This included
GIS mapping of post-impoundment conditions at the community level.

99.     The results of the socio-economic and environment surveys were disclosed and explained
to communities in two district-wide workshops. In addition, a Stakeholder Workshop was also
organized in 2012 to harvest and exchange experiences of representatives of a number of project
affected communities, which included disaster risk preparedness and village-based disaster risk
reduction and management approaches. Some of the key findings of the socio-economic surveys
from 2008 to 2012 are as follows:

      •   Farming still remains the major source of livelihood in the immediate Bumbuna
          catchment area with the proportion of households engaged in farming increasing 17
          percent to 98 percent in 2012.
      •   Ownership of agricultural land/property has increased from 76 percent (in 2008) to 88
          percent (in 2012), but use of mechanized tools has not caught up among PAPs.
      •   Rice and groundnut still remain the food crops predominantly grown by all households in
          the target communities, and oil palm is considered important in the Bumbuna immediate
          catchment areas.
      •   There is a moderately high increase in mid-level income (Le300,000-599,000) received
          from self-employment from 2008 to 2012.
      •   Common cold and malaria which were reported as highly prevalent in 2008 still remain
          to be the major disease burdens in the Bumbuna immediate catchment areas. Other
          diseases that had low prevalence in 2008 had significantly high prevalence in 2012
          (diarrhea, typhoid and cholera).
      •   Health care facilities have deteriorated significantly from 2008-2012.
      •   Access to literacy courses by household heads fell sharply from 53 percent to 13 percent
          from 2008-2012.
      •   A review of housing and sanitation continues to remain a major concern. For example,
          housing with mud/earth floor increased from 64 percent in 2008 to 84 percent in 2012.
          Availability of common pit latrines fell to 4 percent.
      •   The lakes, rivers and ponds still serve as major sources of drinking water for a large
          proportion of households in the Bumbuna immediate catchment areas. While over 70
          percent of communities still do not have access to year-round drinkable water, but access
          had increased by roughly 20 percent by 2012.




                                                 23
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

100. The risk to the development outcome is rated high. This rating reflects the risks to the
sustainability of the development outcome to mitigate, reduce and offset environmental and
social impacts and enhance the benefits of the BHP. The risk to the development outcome mainly
lies in the fact that these institutions are not fully operational and lack sustainable financing. The
Bumbuna dam and power house are still operated on an ad hoc basis. This has already led to
reduced power production, but will need to be improved to improve production and avoid dam
safety issues in the future. Agreed payment structures for O&M are not implemented. Bumbuna
Trust, the institutional vehicle designed to provide sustainable financing for the project’s
ongoing safeguards, has not been operational and is not financed 16. The GoSL did not finalize all
environmental and social measures sponsored under the project before project closing.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

a.      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry [Rating: U]

101. The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. This rating
is based mainly on the shortcomings in the background analysis underpinning the project design.
The design of the PRG and the underlying PPP structure for the management and O&M of the
BHP were not very advanced at the time of Board approval. The due diligence underlying the
PPP design and the use of a PRG was limited. The assessment on the willingness and capacity to
introduce a private operator did not take into account the advance stage of construction and the
pressure to commission the hydropower plant in a power-starved country. The achievement of
the PDOs was contingent upon the successful implementation of a reform program supported
through another project, the PWP, which never fully achieved its objectives. Technical due
diligence was limited and the Bank team did not include an experienced hydropower engineer.
On the other hand, quality of entry on environmental and safeguards issues was satisfactory,
although the cost of environmental and social measures was underestimated 17. It should be noted
that project preparation was done under time pressures with the specter of loss of Sierra Leone’s
exceptional IDA allocation at the end of the fiscal year.

b.      Bank Performance in Quality of Supervision [Rating: MU]

102. Bank performance in the quality of supervision is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
This rating reflects a combination of a meticulous supervision on specific activities financed
under the project with a reactive approach to changing circumstances at a strategic level.

16
   There is no immediate or foreseeable prospect of Bumbuna Trust, given the inability of GoSL to put the overall
electricity sector and the hydropower project on a sustainable financial footing. Bumbuna Trust has not been
established even though the draft Trust Deeds and the Implementation Manual were drafted and submitted to GoSL.
17
    The restructuring paper states that the “extent and cost of key activities under the IDA Grant were greatly
underestimated, most particularly the RAPs and the environmental offset, while potential revenue streams from
carbon credits or from energy generation were greatly overestimated.”


                                                       24
103. On the one hand, the project benefited from intense Bank safeguards supervision and
implementation support, undertaken by an experienced team of senior specialists. The
supervision team included lead energy specialists (who also served as Task Team Lead during
the period when the project was managed by the Bank’s energy department), a lead social
specialist, with support from senior social specialists based in Accra and Freetown, as well as
energy and dam safety staff. Supervision benefited from support from senior safeguards staff
from the Bank’s central units. Project supervision missions were frequent both before and after
project restructuring, and focused mainly on safeguards. Training on fiduciary management
included two procurement and one financial management workshop for PIU and GoSL staff. It
should also be noted that the project originated in the Bank’s energy department, was then
moved to the environment unit, and back to energy again, which resulted in changes in task
leaders.

104. On the other hand, the Bank was not proactive to adjust to changes in the operating
environment. An important factor in this rating is the delay in Bank action after the request for
cancellation of the PRG within a year after Board approval and four months after the investment
lending component of the project became effective. This means that activities financed under the
investment lending component of the project continued to be implemented for three years
without a realistic prospect of meeting the project’s original PDO. The Bumbuna dam was
already commissioned and operational by the time the project was restructured in 2010. The
restructured project to a large degree retrofitted a set of social and environmental measures on a
completed infrastructure project. The Bank found itself in a situation where it was legally
obliged to stay engaged to support the completion of all social and environmental activities of
the BHP to ensure compliance but with little leverage to influence those responsible for project
implementation. At the time of restructuring, the likelihood of the GoSL outsourcing operation
and maintenance to an independent operator in the near term was already low 18 and the capacity
constraints of the GoSL to implement social and safeguards activities were known. However, the
restructuring did not substantially address these issues.

105. After the first restructuring, increasingly leadership on project activities shifted from the
GoSL to the Bank team. As the project proceeded, several measures were added to the scope of
the project to respond to recommendations by the ESAP. The decision making process between
the GoSL and the Bank on these changes in the scope of project activities is not well documented
and hard to assess. However, indications are that the GoSL showed little ownership in the
implementation of these measures as it moved on to other pressing priorities - especially after the
Bumbuna hydropower project was no longer operating at full capacity.

c.      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance [Rating: MU]

106. Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. As noted above, the
environmental and social appraisal was thorough but appraisal did not fully address financial,
PPP structuring, and engineering issues. This resulted in a complex project design to fill a
relatively small construction financing gap. The long delay in restructuring the project and the

18
  The restructuring paper states that “NPA has already accumulated arrears in making payments to Bumbuna and
GoSL is considering dropping the wholesale tariff to reduce NPA’s payment liability.”


                                                    25
decision to limit Bank financing to safeguard activities weakened the Bank’s ability to influence
institutional and financing issues bearing on the project’s longer term sustainability. At the same
time, the Bank carried out a thorough and sustained supervision of project activities that led to
completion of most activities outlined at the project restructuring.

5.2 Borrower Performance

   a. Government Performance [Rating: U]

107. The Government of Sierra Leone did not consistently follow through on its commitments
regarding the project. The initial agreed PPP structure and related sector reforms for the BHP
were dropped soon after project approval as the GoSL found alternative sources to fill the
financing gap that allowed for a finalization of construction under a more traditional public
sector management structure. Subsequently, the GoSL muddled through with the operation and
maintenance of the dam and the powerhouse - it never recruited a professional operator and did
not define a clear plan on how to operate the dam. Instead, it extended the contract with the
contractor to operate the dam on an interim basis several times but never fully paid the contractor
to properly operate the facilities. As time went by, the GoSL lost interest in the environmental
and social safeguards activities, as the dam was commissioned. A positive note is that the GoSL
was able to pass legislation related to formation of institutional structures, like BWMA and BCA
that provide some longer term follow up of safety, environmental, and social safeguards.
However, these structures were not backed up by budgetary commitments to sustain their
activities. Frequent changes in government – including changing Ministers of Energy –
hampered continuity and reduced the institutional memory of what motivated past decisions and
agreements with the World Bank.

   b. Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance [Rating: MS]

108. Implementation agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory (MS). The PIU
initially suffered from lack of capacity and frequent changes in leadership. In later years, the PIU
was strengthened and managed to complete key programs (e.g. procurement of siren equipment,
LMNP set up, RAP implementation, etc). The restructured project expanded the set of activities
and introduced substantial shifts in project administration and the doubling of the number of
contracts that had to be procured through competitive bidding. This additional administrative
load overstretched the PIU till additional staff could be hired to deal with the additional load.
Before restructuring, PIU performance on M&E and communications was lagging, but this
improved much after the restructuring. Furthermore, the PIU was able to put in place a revised
program for developing monitoring indicators and improving the collection and analyses of
evaluation surveys.

   c. Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance [Rating: MU]

109. The overall borrower performance rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU). While the
performance of the PIU of the project has been moderately satisfactory, this is outweighed by the
shortcomings in the government’s performance.



                                                26
6.     Lessons Learned

110. Level of Ambition and Pace of Reform in Fragile States. The rationale for the Bank’s
involvement was sound given the needs of the client at the time. IDA only got involved in the
BHP at a late stage and with limited resources (a PRG to backstop a loan to complete the
remaining 15 percent of the works and a grant for E&S activities) but the success of the IDA
supported operation depended on an ambitious number of institutional reform measures to be
undertaken by the Government of Sierra Leone. Some of these were directly related to the
operation (e.g. establishing a PPP structure for the operation of the BHP). But the PDO of the
IDA-supported operation also depended on a broader power sector restructuring. This sector
restructuring was supported by IDA through the Power and Water Project. This Bank support
was dropped when the Power and Water Project was restructured in 2007 to rehabilitate a power
plant that had stopped working. The lesson learned from the experience is to more prudently
assess the pace of sector reforms in a fragile environment and to adjust (and where possible ring-
fence) project objectives and design to fit the environment.

111. Project Scope and Timing. The Bank’s environmental and social safeguards policies
apply to the entirety of an infrastructure project supported by the Bank and its associated
facilities, regardless of the extent of Bank support. In the case of the Bumbuna project, most
construction activities already had been completed when IDA financing became effective. The
project tried to retrofit good performance on a hydropower development that was already near
completion. As the Bank was not financing construction, it had no formal relationship with the
contractor. Given the frequent power outages in Sierra Leone, the GoSL’s interest was mainly on
commissioning BHP as soon as possible. After project restructuring, the operation exclusively
supported environmental and social activities. This further reduced the leverage the Bank had on
various stakeholders. It should be noted that while the achievement of the operation’s PDO after
restructuring is rated moderately satisfactory, the Bumbuna hydropower project in a broader
sense was performing unsatisfactorily as it was only operating at half its capacity. In later stages
of project implementation, the interests of the GoSL and the Bank continued to diverge. The
GoSL’s interest shifted to restoring the dam to full installed capacity. However, the Bank’s
attention was channeled to a near exclusive focus on safeguards compliance. For instance, in the
absence of a professional operator for the dam, the Bank recommended the creation of an
Emergency Action Unit to narrowly address dam safety issues rather than provide a broader suite
of support for the operation and maintenance of the BHP. The first lesson is for the Bank to be
involved more upstream in hydropower project development, ensuring in particular that safe
operation and maintenance of the plant after commissioning is secured at the planning stage. The
second lesson is to provide broader support on complex hydropower developments in order to be
able to be better aligned with the interests of client governments.

112.     The Dilemma of Continuing Support. While the risks inherent in this operation were
consistently recognized during project preparation and supervision, the Bank did not have a
sufficiently comprehensive strategy in the event that the GoSL failed to abide by its
commitments. Several years passed between the request to cancel the PRG and the actual
cancellation. At that time, the Bank had little choice but to increase the amount of resources for
social and environmental activities as (in the words of the restructuring paper): “the Project was
unable to ensure immediate compliance in a dynamic manner, but now faces a mortgage of

                                                27
future liabilities that must be addressed”. This pattern was repeated as the project moved
forward. When the GoSL did not hire a professional operator, as it had committed to, the project
was extended and restructured to finance a siren system. The issue of long term financing to
sustain the environmental offsets was not resolved before project closure. In short, the Bank was
faced several times with the dilemma whether to continue support to the GoSL to reach
safeguards compliance while having few credible remedies to ensure that the GoSL would
undertake the necessary action. In some ways, this situation continues beyond project closure, as
the Bank will continue to supervise the implementation of environmental and social safeguards
as per Bank policies. The lesson learned is that, the Bank needs to establish clear understandings,
commitment and prior actions by the client, and remedies for handling situations where prior
actions are not met.

113. Decision Making on Changes in Compliance Requirements. The measures necessary
for environmental and social safeguards compliance were revised and extended several times
during project implementation. Many of the revisions were initiated by the two panels of experts.
For instance, the size of the environmental offset was revised upwards, including the addition of
the Loma Mountain National Park. The number of people to be compensated under the RAP also
was revised during project implementation. The installation of a siren system was added when
the recruitment of an experienced operator did not take place in time. While adjusting the social
and environmental activities to changing circumstances is sometimes necessary, the scope and
frequency of revisions is notable 19. Also, the decision-making on including new activities is not
very well documented. The lesson learned is to better define upfront what needs to be done for
safeguards compliance and to have a clearer decision making framework on revisions of the
various safeguards instruments. This would increase the efficiency and predictability of Bank
support and help create ownership of the additional activities for various stakeholders, in
particular the government.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/Implementing Agencies

114. The Borrower and implementation agencies did not provide comments on this report,
despite multiple reminders.

(b)     Co-financiers

115.    Not applicable.




19
   The restructuring paper describes the changes as “a striking case of the learning by doing, while adapting to an
uncertain and unchartered environment in a post-conflict country.” However, it is unclear in how far changes were
indeed caused by the post-conflict country environment.



                                                        28
(c)    Other Partners and Stakeholders

116.   Not applicable.




                                         29
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
                     Bumbuna Environmental & Social Management Project

(a) Original Project Allocation by Component at Appraisal

                                                                    Total Project Cost at Appraisal
Description of Proposed Allocation
                                                                               (US$m)*
Component A:Hydroelectric Project Contracts                                     71.873
Component B: Environmental Mitigation/Area
                                                                                8.296
Development
Component C: Technical Assistance                                               9.616
Repayment of Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                 2.000
Total Project Cost                                                              91.875
* The breakdown of actual expenditure by component is unavailable

(b) Project Allocation of Additional Financing by Components
Description of Proposed Allocation                      Estimated Allocation of IDA
                                                     Additional Financing Grant (US$m)*
Component A:Environmental Management and
                                                                                 7.05
Social Mitigation
Component B. Benefit Sharing                                                     1.25
Component C. Technical Assistance                                                1.20
TOTAL                                                                            9.50
* The breakdown of actual expenditure by component is unavailable

(c) Original and Revised Financing Plan (US$ million)
                      Source                                         Original            Revised
Borrower                                                                8.9                1.0
IDA                                                                    12.5                22.0
AfDB                                                                    3.8                3.8
Italy                                                                  19.9                0.0
Netherlands                                                             0.3                0.0
OPEC                                                                    8.4                0.0
Commercial Bank (IDA Guarantee, P086803)                               38.0                0.0
TOTAL                                                                  91.8                26.8




                                                      30
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                    Bumbuna Environmental & Social Management Project

   A. Original Project

              Planned Activities                             Completed Activities
                 Component A. Hydroelectric and Transmission Infrastructure
Completion of hydroelectric and transmission
civil works
 Component B. Environmental Mitigation, Resettlement, Watershed Management and Benefit
                                           Sharing.
Oversight of the Environmental Management
                                                Oversight of the EMP and the RAPs completed
Plan and Resettlement Action Plans by the
                                                for construction and impoundment phase
BPIU
Development of an Environmental and Social
Management Unit within the Ministry of          -
Energy and Power
Establishment of Bumbuna Watershed
                                                BWMA and BCA established on July 4, 2008,
Management Authority (BWMA) and
                                                by an Act of Parliament
Bumbuna Conservation Area (BCA)
Bumbuna Watershed Management Plan               Community environmental awareness program
(BWMP) prepared and implemented                 started
Monitoring of public health impacts             -
Establishment of an environmental and social    Environmental bypass built to maintain an
amenity flow                                    environmental/social amenity flow at all times
Management of water quality in the reservoir
                                                Water quality monitoring program formulated
area
Preparation/implementation of a                 -
comprehensive environmental monitoring
program
                                                Completed studies led to the identification of
Biodiversity Baseline Studies                   an alternative environmental offset, the Loma
                                                Mountains National Park (LMNP).
                                                Reservoir area was cleared of most large trees
Reservoir Clearing                              to reduce methane gas emissions and
                                                navigation risks.
                                                              Partially Completed
Emergency Preparedness Plan for safety          Emergency Preparedness Plan formulated.
measures downstream from the reservoir          (Emergency Action Unit established under the
                                                Grant in the absence of counterpart funds).
                                                2005 RAP updated and implementation of the
                                                revised RAP started prior to the first phase of
Implementation of the Dam/Reservoir             Bumbuna dam impoundment.
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)                  By December 2008, 38 villages, 599
                                                households, and 5,033 project affected persons
                                                (PAPs) had been resettled and compensated,

                                              31
                                               and emergency food aid was provided for two
                                               years, as recommended by ESAP, from August
                                               2007 to August 2009 to address hunger and
                                               deprivation during the transition period (prior
                                               to full impoundment). Of these PAPs, 41
                                               households (186 people) in five villages were
                                               resettled, and received 179.3 hectares of village
                                               lands in replacement. In addition, there are 95
                                               farm plots belonging to 171 farmers, covering
                                               an area of 117 hectares that will be partially or
                                               fully inundated so replacement lands (under a
                                               land-for-land exchange program) were
                                               allocated and cash compensation paid for lost
                                               crops, trees, and other assets. Lastly, there
                                               were 48 sacred sites in 21 villages that received
                                               village compensation to cover the costs of
                                               replacement and the performance of cultural
                                               ceremonies. The audit of the RAP for the dam
                                               and reservoir area was completed in May 2008
                                               and rated highly satisfactory by ESAP.
Implementation of Livelihood Assessment and
Restoration Program (LAIR) for                 LAIR activities commenced
Dam/Reservoir
                                               Local consulting firm hired to carry out
                                               activities under the Stabilized Agriculture
                                               Program (SAP), focusing on agricultural
                                               extension and training for conservation
Implementation of Stabilized Agriculture       farming. Farmer field schools (FFS) were
Program (SAP) for Dam/Reservoir                formed using 30 farmers per FFS. Each FFS
                                               received training on conservation farming
                                               through a Memorandum of Agreement with the
                                               Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and
                                               Forestry (MoAFS) Tonkolili District offices.
                                               2005 T-Line RAP was revised to update of
                                               PAPs and redefine the T-Line right-of-way
Implementation of transmission line RAP
                                               RAP requirements for testing and activation
                                               implemented
Ward and Community Subprojects, Youth                                  -
Capacity Building Program, Catchment
Stakeholder Forums
                                               Draft legal act for the establishment of the
Bumbuna Trust
                                               Trust prepared but not adopted
New activity not referenced in the PAD
Establishing and Operationalizing the Loma     Baseline studies for LMNP completed.
Mountains National Park (LMNP)                 Boundary demarcation of LMNP ongoing.


                                              32
                            Component C. Technical Assistance
                                            Management and Supervision for construction
Management and supervision of Component B
                                            period completed
Funding of the Dam Safety Review Panel
                                            Funding for DSRP and ESAP for the
(DSRP) and the Environmental and Social
                                            construction period completed
Advisory Panel (ESAP)
Communication Action Plan                   Communication Action Plan formulated

    B. Restructured Project

Planned Activities                            Completed Activities
               Component A. Environmental Management and Social Mitigation
ESMP oversight during operation phase         Completed
Key personnel recruited and BWMA becomes Completed
operational
BWMP prepared and implemented by BWMA Completed
Plan for monitoring and mitigating public     Not completed
health impacts is formulated and implemented
as part of BWMP
Water quality monitoring program              Completed
implemented as part of BWMP
Environmental Monitoring program is           Completed
prepared and implemented as part of BWMP
Emergency Preparedness Action Plan for
safety measures downstream form the reservoir
fully implemented.
Legally establish Loma Mountain National
park (LMNP) including the preparation of the
process framework
Bumbuna Trust established to sustainably
support the BWMA and LMNP
Dam/Reservoir RAP updated following
impoundment
LAIR continues to be expanded to cover all    Completed
PAPs for 2 additional years
SAP continues to be expanded to cover all     846 members benefitted from the FFS program
PAPs for 2 additional years                   52 percent female
Transmission Line RAP is updated,             Almost 100 percent of PAPs claims related to
compensation paid including legacy PAPs and the T-Line had been addressed and completion
livelihoods restored                          of compensation payments was made during
                                              October – December, 2012. Approximately
                                              US$ 242,000 was paid for losses incurred from
                                              the destruction of assets (physical property and
                                              economic trees). However, there remain cases
                                              of compensation to be paid as a result of
                                              grievances concerning legacy PAPs as well as

                                              33
                                           unavailability of PAPs during the
                                           compensation period (95 persons which could
                                           not be located since they migrated out of the
                                           area). The remainder of compensation
                                           payment, which was equivalent to an estimated
                                           US$ 15,000, was deposited in a special account
                                           (similar to an “escrow”) and will be paid out,
                                           once the issues are resolved. These include
                                           construction of relocated institutional
                                           structures (four schools, three churches and
                                           two mosques).
                         Component B. Community Growth Poles
Implement energy-based community growth
pole sub-projects
                           Component C. Technical Assistance
Support the PIU
Finance the DSRP and ESAP
Communication Action Plan updated and
Implemented




                                            34
                                                Annex 3: Results framework – Original Project
                                              Bumbuna Environmental & Social Management Project

              PDO Indicators                            Baseline value                  Target                       Actual value
Electricity sales (GWh) increasing from 68.9
GWh in 2003 to 230 GWh in 2008 (PAD para                  68.9 GWh                     230GWh                        Not monitored
2.1 and Annex 3) *
Percentage reduction of average electricity
                                                             0%                          15%                         Not monitored
tariffs (PAD para 2.1 and Annex 3)*
A biodiversity index to be established under
the Additional Environmental Studies,
acceptable to the Association, does not reduce            None exist               Index established                  Completed
by the end of the Project (PAD para 2.1, Legal
Agreement)
100 percent of Project Affected Persons
                                                                                                               Partially completed (5,033
resettled per definition of OP4.12 by the end
                                                             0%                          100%               persons identified were resettled
of the project (PAD para 2.1, Legal
                                                                                                                   and compensated.
Agreement)
Sixty percent increase of the targeted
watershed area under improved agricultural
                                                                                         60%                         Not monitored
conservation practice by the end of the                      0%
project. (PAD para 2.1, Legal Agreement)
Sustainable fishery practices in 60% of the
reservoir and downstream of the dam (PAD                     0%                          60%                         Not monitored
para 2.1 and Annex 3)
80 percent of PAP involved in new income
generating activities (forestry, fisheries,
agriculture, soap making, carpentry, etc) by                 0%                          80%                         Not Available
the end of the Project (PAD para 2.1, Legal
Agreement)
Bumbuna Watershed Management Plan
                                                                              BWMP developed by March 1,
(BWMP) developed (PAD para 2.1, Legal                        NA                                                     Not completed
                                                                                       2007
Agreement)
Environmental and Social Management Unit                     NA                Created and operational by           Not completed


                                                                         35
              PDO Indicators                          Baseline value                        Target                        Actual value
in the Ministry of Energy and Power (MoEP)                                             December 1, 2008
created and operational. (PAD para 2.1, Legal
Agreement)
Bumbuna Conservation Area (BCA)                                                                                    BCA and BWMA established
                                                                                BCA established by October 31,
established and management plan adopted                                                                              July 4, 2008 by an Act of
                                                            NA                   2006 and management plan
(PAD para 2.1, Legal Agreement)                                                                                    Parliament; management plan
                                                                                   adopted March 1, 2007
                                                                                                                           not prepared.
Environmental management monitoring
system developed by the date of effectiveness               NA                        Date of effectiveness               Not Available
of the Grant (PAD para 2.1, Legal Agreement)
    *These two indicators were recorded in ISR Sequence 1 and 2. Subsequent monitoring was not recorded.

   Intermediate Outcome Indicators                       Baseline                           Target                           Actual
Component A. Hydroelectric and
Transmission Infrastructure
Delivery of electricity at the power substation   0                             300                               Not monitored
in Freetown in line with PPA (PAD Annex
3)***
Operation of a privately managed power            0                             Regulator in place                Not monitored
generation company (the Special Purpose
Company, the BHC)(PAD Annex 3)***
Component B. Environmental
Mitigation, Resettlement, Watershed
Management and Benefit Sharing
Environmental Management and Mitigation
                                                                                  EMP activities implemented;      Most activities implemented;
Plan (EMP) is being implemented as agreed,
                                                                                   Watershed Management            ongoing; ESAP panel largely
leading to the Efficient Operation of the             EMP developed
                                                                                 Authority functional; Wildlife    satisfied. Safety issues to be
Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority
                                                                                 Conservation Area established.            implemented.
(BWMA)***+
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the Dam
and Reservoir and the RAP for the                                                                                   Implementation ongoing;
                                                      RAP developed             All RAP activities implemented.
transmission line, are being implemented in                                                                       completion scheduled for 2011.
accordance with RAP implementation

                                                                       36
    Intermediate Outcome Indicators                           Baseline                            Target                            Actual
schedules. ***+
Effective establishment and demonstration of      Not fulfilled                      GoSL has adopted a                  Community projects will be
the basic institutional model for the proposed                                       Community Sub-projects              addressed during restructuring
Bumbuna Trust for local resource                                                     Manual as part of the PIP           and they are likely to be
development. ***+                                                                    defining eligibility criteria,      negotiated as part of community
                                                                                     environmental and social            compensation in land for land
                                                                                     screening guidelines and            swap.
                                                                                     approval and administration
                                                                                     arrangements.
Component C. Technical Assistance
Ensure satisfactory implementation of the         Limited capacity                   Environmental and Social            BPMU now receiving assistance
project including meeting IDA safeguard                                              Management Unit in MoEP             with communication action
policies and promoting sector capacity                                               established. High level of public   plan. Minister wants to
building. ***+                                                                       support for the project.            strengthen and incorporate
                                                                                                                         BPMU to his ministry as an
                                                                                                                         implementing unit for all
                                                                                                                         projects.
***When the results framework in the PAD was transferred to the electronic Implementation Status Report format, the higher level results in the first columns
of the PAD Annex 3 were used for monitoring.
+Target and actual results were taken from ISR #11 dated June 18, 2010




                                                                           37
       Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
                Bumbuna Environmental & Social Management Project

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
         Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Dona1 O'Leary          Task Team Leader                        AFTEG
Richard Senou          Sr. Financial Analyst                   AFTEG
Fanny Missfeld-Ringius Energy Economist                        AFTEG
Pierre Vieillescazes   Sr. Financial Officer                   IEF
Charlotte Bingham      Lead Environmental Specialist           ESDQC
Robert A. Robelus      Sr. Env. Assessment Specialist          AFTS1
Kristine M. IvarsdotterSr. Social Dev. Specialist              AFTS1
Wendy Wakeman          Sr. Operations Officer                  PRMGE
Leonardo Mauei         Communications Specialist               EXTCD
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus  Sr. Procurement Specialist              AFTPC
Giovanni Casartelli    Lead Procurement Specialist             OPCPR
Mohammed Bekhechi      Lead. Counsel                           LEGEN
Alberto Ninio          Sr. Counsel                             LEGAF
Manush Hristov         Counsel                                 LEGAF
Ximena Talero          Sr. Counsel                             LEGCF
Helene Bertaud         Sr. Counsel                             LEGAF
Frederick Yankey       Sr. Financial Management                AFTFM
                       Specialist
Erica Hyde             Program Assistant                       AFTEG
Marie-Adele Tchakounte Program Assistant                       AFTU2
Lawrence Haas          Consultant                                      Power Systems
                                                                       Planner
James Vincent             Consultant                                   Community Driven
                                                                       Dev.
Thomas Katta              YP                                           Youth Expert
Don Webster               Consultant                                   Economist
Nigel Wills               Consultant                                   Expert Manitoba
                                                                       Hydro

Supervision/ICR
Joyce Olubukola
                          Consultant                           AFTMW
Agunbiade
Akinrinmola O. Akinyele   Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTMW
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti    Consultant                           AFTA1
Mi Hyun Bae Mbayo         Senior Social Development Spec       LCSSO
Helene Bertaud            Senior Counsel                       LEGAM

                                            38
                        Regional Environmental and
Alexandra C. Bezeredi                                     AFTSG
                        Safeguard
Samuel Bruce-Smith      Consultant                          AFTDE
Malcolm Cosgrove-
                         Sector Manager, Energy             LCSEG
Davies
Maria Concepcion J. Cruz Lead Social Development Specialist AFTCS
Robert W. DeGraft-
                         Financial Management Specialist AFTMW
Hanson
Martin Fodor             Senior Environmental Specialist    AFTN3
Manush A. Hristov        Senior Counsel                     LEGES
                         Senior Social Development
Kristine M. Ivarsdotter                                     LCSSO
                         Specialist
Helena Mamle Kofi        Consultant                         AFTG1
Paivi Koljonen           Lead Energy Specialist             AFTG1
Anton Luis Garcia        E T Consultant                     LEGLA
Stephen F. Lintner       Senior Adviser                     OPSOR
Fanny K. Missfeldt-
                         Senior Energy Economist            MNSEE
Ringius
Sameh I. Mobarek         Senior Counsel                     LEGPS
Mark M. Moseley          Lead Counsel                       LEGPS
Mohua Mukherjee          Senior Energy Specialist           SASDE
Alberto Ninio            Chief Counsel                      LEGEN
                         Sr. Financial Management
John Nyaga                                                  EASFM
                         Specialist
Lars O. Oedegaard        Consultant                         AFTN1
Oluwole Pratt            Financial Management Analyst       AFTME
Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo     Senior Operations Officer          CPFGC
Chrisantha Ratnayake     Consultant                         AFTG1
Robert A. Robelus        Consultant                         AFTA1
Scott Sinclair           Lead Financial Officer             AFTG2
Rajiv Sondhi             Senior Finance Officer             CTRLA
                         Sr Natural Resources Mgmt.
John W. Fraser Stewart                                       CPFIA
                         Specialist
S. Swaminathan           Finance Analyst                    CTRLN
Charles Taylor           Consultant                         AFTPW
Satoru Ueda              Lead Water Resources Specialist    TWIWA
Jorge E. Uquillas Rodas Consultant                          OPSOR
Virginie A. Vaselopulos Language Program Assistant          AFTN1
Pierre C. Vieillescazes  Consultant                         MNSF1
Frederick Yankey         Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTMW




                                          39
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of Staff Weeks       Travel and Consultant
                                                                    Costs)
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                    6.14                      78.65
  FY08                                   34.03                     316.52
  FY09                                   72.08                     481.55
  FY10                                   52.56                     383.07
  FY11                                   29.79                     256.33
  FY12                                   40.73                     321.31
  FY13                                   29.82                     268.52
  FY14                                   18.92                     142.73
                          Total:        284.07                   2,248.68




                                       40
                        Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents
                  Bumbuna Environmental & Social Management Project

Project Preparation Documents:

1) SIERRA LEONE: Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project. Report of the First Meeting of the Dam
    Review Panel, October 25-November 4, 2004.
2) Retrospective Review of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project: Emphasizing the Role and
    Application of Options Assessment Concepts; Lawrence J.M. Haas, in collaboration with the
    PIU Bumbuna Staff and with contributions from stakeholders; November 30, 2004 (draft
    final report).
3) Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, Environmental Impact Assessment. NKUK/BMT CORDAH
    EFA, draft final report January 2005 (3 volumes).
4) Resettlement Action Plan for the Reservoir and Dam Area, Bumbuna Hydropower Project,
    Electrowatt-EKONO, Techsult Company Ltd, Final Report, January 26,2005 (2 volumes).
5) Resettlement Action Plan Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project - Transmission Line Project from
    Bumbuna to Freetown Sierra Leone, AZIMUT, INFOTIERRA, BGJLR, Land Compensation
    Consultants, with the collaboration of the Bumbuna PIU staff, Final Report January 2005.
6) Completion of the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, Environmental and Social Advisory
    Panel, Report 1, 11 November, 2004.
7) Upper Seli River, Community Development Initiative, James Vincent, February 2005.
8) SIERRA LEONE: Recommended Legal Framework for the Electricity Sector, prepared by
    Hunton and Williams LLP, Washington D.C. January 2005.
9) Bumbuna Falls Hydroelectric Project. Laser Scanning Survey Report. Studio Pietrangeli
    Airborne Laser Solutions, January 2005.
10) The National Power Authority (Amendment) Act 2005 - Bumbuna Arrangements, February
    2005 (Draft).
11) Design of the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission for Sierra Leone. International
    Management and Regulatory Institute, Freetown, Sierra Leone, March 2005 (Draft).
12) The Sierra Leone Public Utilities Regulatory Commission Act. International Management
    and Regulatory Institute, Freetown, Sierra Leone, March 2005 (Preliminary Draft).
13) Republic of Sierra Leone: Institutional Support Project to Strengthen the Public Financial
    Management and the Energy Sectors: Appraisal Report. African Development Fund, Country
    Operations Department, West Regions, September 2004.
14) Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone, World Bank, March 2002.
15) Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, A National Programme for Food Security, Job Creation
    and Good Governance (2005 – 2007), Government of Sierra Leone, February 2005.
16) Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone, World Bank, May 2005.
17) Upper Seli River Community Development Initiative, World Bank, proposal to the Japan
    Social Development Fund, March 2005.

Project Supervision
A. Safety:
1) Memorandum of Understanding between MEWR, ONS and SLRCS, November 2011.
2) West Africa Disaster Management Capacity Building Project - Simulation Exercise Report,
   November 2011.

                                             41
3) Terms of Reference for the Emergency Action Unit, BHP, October 2011.
4) ACP-EU for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (DRR) - Window 2 Proposal, August 2012.
5) Bumbuna Project, Dam Safety Review Panel, Final Report, September 2011.
6) Bumbuna Emergency Preparedness and Action Plan, GoSL, August 2010.
7) Bumbuna Site Assessment Report, Voith Engineering, December 2012.
8) Bumbuna Project, Dugout Canoe Accident in Kakuthan, August 2013.
9) Bumbuna Project, ESIA Progress Report on Siren Location, November 2012.
10) Bumbuna Siren Warning System Design, Studio Pietrangeli, November 2011.
11) Bumbuna Warning System – Sirens Location General Map, Studio Pietrangeli, November
    2011.
12) Contract for the Supply, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of the Siren Warning
    System at Bumbuna, May 2012.
13) Concealing of Exposed Counterpoises and Demolition of Structures under 161 KV
    Transmission Line, Layanaa Consultants, June 2013.

B. Bumbuna Trust:
14) Memorandum and Articles of Association of Bumbuna Trust Company (SL) Ltd, July 2012.
15) Bumbuna Trust Company Operational Manual (draft), May 2013.

C. Environmental and Social Advisory Panel (ESAP):
16) Bumbuna project - ESAP Mission-1 Report, November 2004.
17) Bumbuna project - ESAP Mission-2 Report, April 2007.
18) Bumbuna project - ESAP Mission-3 Report, April 2008.
19) Bumbuna project - ESAP Mission-4 Report, April 2009.
20) Bumbuna project - ESAP Mission-5 Report, January 2011.
21) Bumbuna project - ESAP Mission-6 Report, April 2013.

D. Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority (BWMA):
22) Water Quality and Fisheries Management Report: November 2012 - June 2013.
23) BWMA Fisheries Management Program, Survey of Fishing Communities, April 2013.
24) Hydrological and Fisheries Monitoring Programme, Final Field Report, April 2013.
25) Draft Bumbuna Eco-tourism Assessment Report, May 2013.
26) Environmental Health Impact Assessment: Bumbuna Hydro-electric Dam, October 2012.
27) Report of the Botanical Survey in Bumbuna Watershed (Sierra Leone), April 2013.
28) Follow-up Survey of Amphibians and Reptiles of Bumbuna Project Area, May 2013.
29) BWMA Biodiversity Monitoring Draft Report. Study Area – Butterflies, June 2013.
30) Bat (Chiroptera) Study for Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project (draft), June 2013.
31) Primates and Other Large Mammals Survey in the Bumbuna Conservation Area, June 2013.
32) Bumbuna Biodiversity Monitoring, Thematic Group –Birds, June 2013
33) Signed MoU between BCA Land Holding Families, Communities and BWMA, March 2013.
34) Survival Rate of Tree Crop Planted in BCA and Watershed in 2012, June 2013.
35) BWMA Community Sensitization Meetings Report, November 2012.
36) Tree Planting and Management in BCA and Watershed, November 2012.
37) Details of Beneficiaries within BCA and Watershed during CY2012, May 2013.
38) Bumbuna Conservation Area Eco-tourism Brochures, June 2013.
39) BWMA Monthly Progress Report, June 2013.

                                           42
40) BWMA Overall Power-point Presentation of its Activities, September 2012.

E. Loma Mountains National Park (LMNP):
41) Proclamation for the Constitution of the Loma Mountains National Park, February 2012.
42) National Protected Areas Authority Gazette Notification, October 2012.
43) LMNP Preliminary Management Plan 2013-2017 (Volume I), OBF, February 2013.
44) LMNP Community Action Plan, Volume II, OBF, February 2013.
45) LMNP Preliminary Management Plan 2013-2017, Management Planning and Consultation
    Report, Volume III, OBF, February 2013.
46) LMNP Process Framework Report (draft), EEMC, June 2012.
47) Report on the Assessment of Routes Leading to LMNP, May 2011.
48) Agreement between GoSL / FD and Forest-edge Communities, May 2011.
49) LMNP Status Report, June 2013.
50) LMNP Civil Works Outstanding, September 2013.

F. Loma Mountains National Park (LMNP):
51) RAP Completion Report of Bumbuna Project - Reservoir and Dam Area, June 2013.
52) RAP Completion Report of Bumbuna - Transmission Line, August 2012.
53) Bumbuna Socio-Economic Impact Survey, Implementation of the Transmission Line RAP,
    Independent Consultant Report, May 2013.
54) Bumbuna Socio-Economic Survey – Community, Household and Community-services
    Questionnaires, July 2012.
55) Bumbuna Socio-Economic Impact Survey, Implementation of Dam & Reservoir RAP,
    Independent Consultant Report, November 2012.
56) Bumbuna Socio-Economic Baseline Report, EEMC, August 2012.
57) Witness NGO Inception Report to Monitor the Implementation Completion of Activities
    under Transmission Line RAP, Centre for Accountability and Rule of Law (CARL), August
    2012.
58) Complaints after Shoreline Re-Survey in the Dam/Reservoir Area, February 2013.
59) SAP Final Implementation Report, July 2013.
60) LAIR / OREINT Program of Activities, October 2012 to June 2013.
61) Kawunkulu Food Support Programme Report, August 2012
62) Maintenance of Sanitary Facilities (VIP toilet) in 4 Project Affected Communities, May
    2013.

G. Miscellaneous Documents:
63) Sierra Leone Power Sector Financial Review 2010-14, June 2013.




                                             43
                Annex 6: MAP
Bumbuna Environmental & Social Management Project




                       44
